ParlaMint-DK_20150519130001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130003	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130016	Thank you. Today we have the last question hour in this parliamentary year, and it has to be said that we have gone a long way in the year that has passed. Therefore, it may be useful to sum up a little today. Since 2011, the government has invested 14 billion. kr. more in our common welfare. This means that there has never been so much money spent on education that there has never been more investment in health, and there are 7,000 more employees in health care. We have chosen to do so, even though the economy is tight. In the years to come, we all know that there will be more and more Danish elderly people, and we must be able to afford their care and care, and we must be able to afford improvements in core areas such as health and education. The government has set aside money for this: 3 billion. kr. on average each year. It's not much. It is a modest amount every year, which requires us to continue to manage the economy tightly, but that is enough for us to be able to strengthen the prosperity of the years to come. It might seem that the Left will give priority to many of the same welfare areas as the government, for example. health, but at the same time large tax cuts will be made. If the Left really wants to give priority to the welfare areas that the government wants, it will require savings elsewhere, according to the plan of the Left. It's gonna take 3 billion. kr. to meet investment needs in the first year and then to find new savings of 3 billion. kr. Year after year. Great savings are not what Denmark needs. We need to stay on course. Danish economy is progressing. We have had growth for 11⁄2 years, unemployment is falling, employment is increasing and the competitiveness of businesses has improved. There are record low waiting times for operations; juvenile delinquency is falling. Denmark is simply in a better place today than it was four years ago. The government's policy is clear. We have produced results. On the other hand, it must be said that the confusion about what the opposition really wants with Denmark has hardly been greater. We know that there must be zero growth for many years to come, so that the money can go to tax cuts, but who really should have the tax cuts? Over the years, the Left has given promises to a great many: to the richest families, to the oil companies, to business, tax relief at the top, tax relief at the bottom of the list is long. The Left will not only spend more money on tax cuts. The Left also says that more money needs to be spent on, for example. health, the elderly, the police and the defence, and that is at the same time as there must be zero growth. It doesn't add up. Tuesday after Tuesday, the opposition fails to respond. But how wonderful it would be if it were today, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen would reveal where to save when the Left introduces zero growth. Where to save? And the confusion goes on, because the Danish People's Party also owes answers. It is a well-known fact that the Danish People's Party's only priority is that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is to be Prime Minister of Denmark. The Danish People's Party is part of a bourgeois bloc that wants zero growth or even minus growth. But the question that had to be answered is: Why does the Danish People's Party support that Denmark will have a government that will make welfare worse in Denmark? The course taken by the government has brought Denmark forward. This is a course we want to continue in the coming years. It is a course in which we invest a little more in welfare every year. That is quite clear. But we still do not know the plan that the Left and the Danish People's Party have for Denmark. Who knows, maybe we'll get some answers today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130456	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory statement. We then go to the party leaders and I think it is necessary for me once again to clarify that in the first round the questioner and Prime Minister have both two minutes, and in the next two rounds the questioner and minister have a maximum of one minute. It's first, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the leader of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130522	Thank you. Tuesday after Tuesday, we won't get an answer. Well, we can change that, I guess. I mean, it's the last Tuesday with a question time in this assembly, and thus with certainty the last Question Time before we have had a parliamentary election. Surely I should not hide the fact that I have an ambition to put myself in a position where I have the opportunity to give an answer to what is being asked during Question Time to the Prime Minister. Because that's what we're going to do now. In fact, I would like to address some of what the Prime Minister really does touch on here, to which the Prime Minister has returned in Question Time after Question Time, namely the policy of the Left. It is quite unclear what is the government's and what is actually going to be elected on. If you are moving around Denmark at the moment, you can see outdoor ads with unflattering images of myself and with a purely scaremongering campaign about Left politics. There are no limits to all the people who have to be fired everywhere in the public sector if we are to have power as we have been watching. I would like to talk about the future, but if the Prime Minister himself is now building this scare-mongering picture about how many people are to be fired in the public sector, then I really think that during the last question hour of this parliamentary term I have the chance to ask the Prime Minister a few questions at least. Because when the Prime Minister is so concerned about the consequences of the policy pursued, it seems very simple to ask a simple question: the Prime Minister claims that the policy of the Left will lead to thousands fewer public employees. But wouldn't the Prime Minister just start today's Question Time by answering how many more or fewer civil servants there are today compared to the day when I resigned and left government responsibility to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130734	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130737	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen would like to be in a position where he can answer questions, but Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is the leader of the opposition, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen should actually be able to answer the simple question: How should the zero growth experiment be implemented in the next few years towards 2020? It is a completely simple question which requires a simple answer. Why can we not get answers to how the public sector should be organized when it comes to zero growth? That's it, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says he would like to be able to answer. I also think there are a great many Danes who would like Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was able to answer it. As far as the specific question is concerned, it is quite right that a very large degree of adjustment of the economy was introduced after Mr Giscard d'Estaing's speech. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had been prime minister. There were a number of years in which budgets were not managed. The budgets went from one year to the next, and some of the new things in Danish politics are precisely that we are respecting the budgets. There is no need to hide the fact that the municipalities have made a major adjustment to the economy. If we just look at some of the numbers, and I don't really understand that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is so proud of the figures that we can see that over-consumption culminated in 2009 when 5 billion were spent. kr. Too much in relation to the budgets. It is a very great emphasis that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was unable to run a government to keep budgets. That is why since then there has been an adjustment of the economy, and I fully recognise that. That is the way it is when you have to clean up after a bourgeois government when you have to get your economy back under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130915	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519130918	I didn't really get an answer to how many fewer civil servants there are. There are 13,752 fewer civil servants today than when I was prime minister. I guess the PM can confirm that. Speaking of cleaning up, I just remind you, for the sake of history, that just in the small period when I was Prime Minister, we took three initiatives to ensure better budget implementation in the municipalities. Not once did the Social Democratic Party contribute to taking responsibility for the tightening up; on the contrary, when we tried to keep public wages under control, the Prime Minister, in his capacity as chairman of the Social Democratic Party, walked around the Palace Square and demonstrated that we should let wages rise more. That's why it's so hollow that we're gonna meet up with this scare picture. There must be fewer employees in the municipalities if I get government responsibilities, says the Prime Minister and this seems to be worrying. So I would just like to ask: how many fewer or more municipal employees are there today than before the change of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131022	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131024	But I am not hiding the fact that an adjustment of the economy has been made, because that was necessary after the time Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister, to get the economy back together. Can not Lars Løkke Rasmussen also confirm that when he was Prime Minister himself, and also when Anders Fogh Rasmussen was Prime Minister, it is actually difficult to find a single year where budgets were managed; where budgets were not exceeded? I fully acknowledge that, that is to say, we have got things under control. We now have a situation in Denmark where budgets are not exceeded, and this has also led to adjustments in the municipalities. But to say that we do not have any more money for the public sector in the future is simply wrong. Now Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, that we should not talk about the past, and I understand you don't want to, because it's something worse, and there you couldn't figure out how to keep the budgets. If we just talk about the future, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen didn't agree with me that every year you have 3 billion. kr. more public service, more public service can be provided than if you had not had 3 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131127	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131129	The last thing all depends on how you spend the money, that is. The government, for example, has... It was decided to increase our asylum and alien system by one billion kroner; it could also have been spent on something else. If you look at the total cost of the influx of refugees, there have been more people who have come on cash benefits, etc. kr., and that's why it's the question of prioritising. I can then inform you that there are 12,600 fewer employees in the municipalities today, compared to before, the Prime Minister became Prime Minister. I just think it's important to get these numbers out, because now I can look at some of the ads that need to be fired educators if I get the responsibility. Could the Prime Minister perhaps now move down to smaller numbers, after all, tell us how many more or fewer educators there are in Denmark compared to the day the Prime Minister became Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131216	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131220	- Sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen does not disclose how to get more educators in the public sector when you have zero growth? Can't we get an answer to that? Because there is no doubt that we have spent more money in the public sector than Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen would have done. What is standing and hovering in Denmark is not what the government wants us to spend some 3 billion dollars in the future. kr. extra on average per year in the public sector. It's not gold and green forests. But could Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen does not answer what you can get for 0 kr. Year after year? I would like to say to those who are so happy that I have to answer that I am happy to answer. It is true that there has been an adjustment of the economy after we have been given responsibility. We took over a country at a time of crisis. We took over a country where attempts had been made to clean up after themselves, but where there was a crisis. Since then, we've spent a lot of time and energy... we're happy to clean up after a bourgeois government. But what we do not need now is new experiments with a bourgeois policy with a strange mix of zero growth and dubious tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131333	Then we go to round number. 2 between the Prime Minister and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131339	Well, the money you have spent must have been used incorrectly in relation to the priorities you have, because you can understand that everything is at the heart of how many civil servants there should be. And so 13,752 fewer have been delivered in all; 12,600 fewer in the municipalities, and there are today 3,090 fewer educators than when the Prime Minister went to the polls on great slogans that now there should be two teachers in all classrooms, the municipalities should grow, the fathers should be on leave, and what do I know? It may be that this is a little trivial, but, you know, I'm just a little interested in getting answers to the questions I'm asking. By the way, I would like to offer myself to a duel with the Prime Minister what day it should be, and in which media the Prime Minister prefers, if we are not to have a parliamentary election match anyway. I would very much like to discuss with the Prime Minister also the role of the Social Democratic Party, the somewhat dubious role that the Social Democratic Party had in recent years before the government changed, when it was trying to take responsibility. But it must be another day, because today we are at Question Time with the Prime Minister. One of the things I can see around these scaremongering ads is that if we get power as we have been watching, there will be fewer policemen on the streets. That is why I would like to ask: are there more or less police employees today than when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister? And how many more or fewer employees are in the police today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131513	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131515	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen wants to discuss the past and the future at the same time. I am not denying that too much money was spent at the time, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. The cost was too high and therefore it is very possible that there were more employees then. But that doesn't change the fact that our job was to clean up after mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and my appeal today to the voters and to the Danes at all is: Don't let us clean up once more after a bourgeois government, it has been difficult enough, so please don't. And that's why Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen still responds to a campaign which apparently has been very traumatic for him. Can't you just get answers to who's gonna be fired? We have just been told that it is not the educators, it is not the teachers, it is not the policemen, it is not someone in the defence, it is not someone in the health care system. Who is to be fired in the public sector when the Left wants to introduce an experiment called zero growth that we have never had in Denmark before? Who is to be fired in the public sector? The rest of us can only guess when we cannot get answers from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131617	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131618	There are 256 fewer police officers today than there were when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, and I am just trying to find out what is really important to the government, because it is a matter of prioritising. Together we have set down corporate tax and spent money on it, together we have put the top tax on it and spent money on it, together we have made two growth agreements and spent money on it, and I have been happy about it. But that must pain the Prime Minister, who thinks that everything should be measured in public employees and who, in terms of areas, have provided fewer of the kind and 256 fewer police officers. Let us move to another area: the whole social area, the people who work with social protection, i.e. SOSU assistants, educators, and see how the overall figure is there. Are there fewer or more people in this area? Can the Prime Minister tell me about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131706	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131708	It is quite true that our governance cannot be compared to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's governance, where the economy was not managed, and where, year by year, more money was spent than had been set aside. You can't compare that. For now the economy has been managed, and the new thing in the Danish economy is that we are respecting the budgets. So I have to understand, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen right: Should more people be employed in the public sector forward-looking? Is it in the economic plans of the Left? And again, we have to guess, because there is no plan from the left. We are back in the discussion we have had many times, and the message is actually quite simple. Firstly, the government has, of course, pursued an economic policy in which we have managed things and where the budgets are kept. Secondly, we have also ensured that public consumption has increased by 10 billion. kr. since 2011; it is something that the Left could not have done if they had had zero growth during the period we are talking about here. Thirdly, these discussions could be avoided if the Left were merely to put forward an economic plan. The rest of us have to guess who's gonna be fired in the public sector. For one thing, zero growth means layoffs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131817	Last round for Mr. Keating. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131819	There are 11,246 people employed in the area of social protection, today, compared to when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, and that is why it all seems... if you could just ask the Minister of Transport not to sit and shout to me. Well, I'm just being distracted, this isn't trains on time, it's cries on time, and we're in favour of trains on time, but yelling at time is very annoying!
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131857	We'll give it to Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen for a few seconds extra. Heckling is not permitted under the Rules of Procedure; laughter is welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519131907	So now the Minister of Transport can choose to laugh instead, and I can see that he's smiling, and that's also good; I just got a little distracted. But it's also because I find it hard to get used to this concept of questioning to the Prime Minister and then constantly having to answer the other way. It just seems a little hypocritical to me, yes, I am sorry to use the word 'you spend all your money in this campaign that you've been running ever since January, when you try to draw this scare picture, when you've been pursuing a policy that now that we've been reviewing the figures, you're proving that in relation to what you chose at the end, and also the picture that you're now drawing, you've simply not delivered the goods. Therefore, it might be very good just at the end of the day to get the Prime Minister to deal with something. In 2020, if the Prime Minister is Prime Minister for so long, and this plan has been implemented, which we have helped the government make, will there be more or less public employees than when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132013	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132015	Well, I'm sorry if Mr. Knox... Lars Løkke Rasmussen is distracted by shouting; I hope that you can control the temper after all, even if it happens; I think that is quite important that you can. I can answer the question, which is basically about whether, by 2020, more money will have been spent on the public sector and therefore more staff than if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen completes its zero growth towards 2020. I can say very clearly that this goes without saying. For without zero growth, that is, with our plan for the future, we have 3 billion each year. kr. to add to our public sector. It is not gold and green forests, it is not luxury, but it is enough for us to be able to cope with demographic developments. But with the Left's zero growth, there's 0 kroner. If you want to spend more money on health, you have to find the money elsewhere and save; if you want to spend 3 billion. kr. Somewhere, you have to save 3 billion. kr. Somewhere else. That is a fair view, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is allowed to have, but tell the Danes where to save; the other is simply not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132126	Thank you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as the leader of the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132135	Thank you for that, President. It is true, as has been said, that this is the final question hour in the long line of questions which, after all, began when we had a change of government. They canceled these opportunities to ask the Prime Minister from the press over at the Prime Minister's Office, and we should have a question time here instead. I think the President of Parliament began this whole séance by saying that it was important that we then kicked loose, and it can be said that if it has been unleashed at any time since it started, it has been today. So it's been good enough. It's been fine. I also think I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister said here at the preliminary last Question Time that she would give clear answers. That's amazing. I will see it as something positive and look forward to the clear answers that now come to my clear questions, because then we will move on quickly and can also clarify for the Danes what it is that is up and down in Danish politics. One of the things that I have been trying to get an answer to for a long time, and which I am now getting an answer to, is that part of DONG's sales to Goldman Sachs, which the government was in charge of, the Finance Minister was in charge of. I've been in the past, and I've been in the past. in the previous Question Time also tried to get an answer to it, but will get it today. What has happened in the meantime is that the Bureau, the leadership of the Danish Parliament, has made it clear that the questions we have had on this matter have actually been highly factual and relevant and that the government should give an answer to them. In the reply given by the Bureau to the complaint we had lodged concerning the administration of the government, the following is clear: in the present case, the DONG case, in the view of the Bureau, provides that the information relating to the individual offers, in addition to what ended up being accepted, is provided by the Goldman Sachs was and is of material importance to the Finance Committee. So, the Bureau says that it was and is of the utmost importance that the Finance Committee in the Folketing should be informed of offers to DONG other than the offer that came from Goldman Sachs. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister here today whether she agrees with the Bureau on that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132343	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132345	But, of course, I take note of the report of all the Bureau, and of course I also think it is important for Parliament to have the information that is needed when it comes to dealing with legislation or documents. At the same time, however, as the Bureau of the Danish Parliament also writes, there may be some circumstances which lead to certain information not being passed on to the Danish Parliament. In this case, the Ministry of Finance considered that it could put the State at a disadvantage and thus the taxpayer at a disadvantage in the future if information on the tenderers who were not included in this capital increase were now provided. So there is, of course, great respect for the Bureau's statements, but also respect for the statements made by the Ministry of Finance on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132431	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132433	Perhaps that was not as clear an answer as one might wish. Because if you take note of the view of the Bureau, as it has been referred to here, then it must mean that you are also willing to comply with it. How else do you take note of that? Is that just something you take note of and then you do the opposite of what the Bureau writes? We surely agree that if the offers made to DONG by anyone other than Goldman Sachs were and are of real importance to the Committee on Finance, as the Bureau has agreed, then that must also mean that the Committee on Finance can obtain that information. Therefore, will the Prime Minister now, because the Minister of Finance will not, of course, ensure that what is of real importance to the Committee on Finance, that is to say the information on this matter, is provided to the Committee on Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132524	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132525	As I read the Bureau of the Danish Parliament's reply, it is important, of course, that the Danish Parliament gets truthful information and that the Danish Parliament gets the information it needs. We all do that, that is to say, we place emphasis on it. There's nothing new about that. At the same time, however, the Bureau of Parliament writes in its reply that there may be circumstances in which certain information is not passed on to the Folketing, and that is why it is possible to take note of the Bureau's reply, while in this particular case the information is not disclosed because it would be detrimental to the State in similar situations forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132601	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132603	I assume the Prime Minister is familiar with how the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee works. We get a lot of information all the time in confidence when there is going to be a variety of things to offer and you assess what the price can be etc., and then the Finance Committee is often told, knowing that of course it will harm the interests of the state if that information comes out to third parties, that is to say to some of those who have to offer these things. It's clear. That is why the Committee on Finance is given the information in confidence. But this is not a question of whether or not the Financial Committee gets the information. It is, of course, a question of the Financial Committee having them kept confidential and, therefore, of course, also having to respect that confidentiality. That is why I am asking the same question for the third time. What the Bureau, in agreement, then, is, after all, the five largest parties represented in the Bureau of Parliament, and quite a lot of people in this Chamber should feel covered by what the Bureau writes, is that it is important for the Committee on Finance to obtain information on the other offers, in addition to the bid from Goldman Sachs, which was at DONG. Then I assume that the Prime Minister agrees that objective importance is really important. This means that it is information that we actually have an interest in getting and should be able to obtain. Will the Prime Minister prompt the Finance Committee, of course, to obtain the information, that is to say, on who bid on DONG in addition to Goldman Sachs, to which the government ended up selling?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132720	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132721	I don't think we're getting any closer than the answer I've given. I have stated what the position is on the Bureau's response and also what the Minister for Finance's response has been. I have full respect for the Bureau, but there may also be cases where it does not serve the interests of the state to provide that information. What puzzles me in this whole case is that the Danish People's Party with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl at the head thinks that it is the most important matter in the world to discuss, and at the same time you have to think about what role the Danish People's Party itself has had in the whole case of the sale of DONG. Well, we know that the Danish People's Party has been involved in this process just like the other conciliation parties. The Danish People's Party, back in 2013, helped to decide that additional capital should be provided to DONG. Back then, it was okay. It was only when this case got public attention and the Danish People's Party wanted to change their mind that you got a new attitude on this matter. So on this point too, as on so many other points, the Danish People's Party has had every conceivable view. So it's too bad that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl jumped from the deal. The Danish People's Party has been involved in this case from the very beginning, and they have had every conceivable opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132833	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132838	Contaminated drinking water, semi-empty lakes and streams, the release of radioactive substances are just some of the consequences that the extraction of shale gas by means of fracking can have for humans and nature. It rightly concerns more and more Danes, not least in North Jutland and in North Zealand, where the test drilling is either in full swing or planned, which was not least last night seen, since the Aalborg City Council by a majority, including among other things. The Socialists, too, said no to granting a permit. I do not believe that the extraction of shale gas in any way benefits Denmark. We play gambling with our clean drinking water, which we get from our groundwater and our nature, and therefore we have to stop the extraction. We do this best and wisest by making high and sensible environmental requirements that protect our drinking water and our aquatic environment. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government will help to tighten up the Danish environmental requirements, so that among other things. become illegal to use toxic chemicals necessary to get the shale gas out of the soil, as well as to impose requirements on how to handle the radioactive waste that comes up in connection with fracking in shale gas extraction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132952	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519132954	I think it is good to have a debate on how to move towards the green transition, and we agree that we want a green transition. I think both the government and the SF agree with that. As part of this conversion, there is no doubt that oil and gas will play a central role in the years to come, and what we know is that natural gas is more environmentally friendly than coal, and that is why I think it is no wonder that we are currently examining whether shale gas is present in the Danish underground. However, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also says, it must, of course, be done fully securely in terms of safety and the environment. This is, of course, a basic prerequisite for this. There have been some discussions about who should carry out these environmental assessments, and there is no doubt that the shared competence that has been in this area has created a little ambiguity and uncertainty, and the matter is now so complex that the Ministry of the Environment has taken over responsibility for the environmental assessments that need to be carried out, and I think that is right if we are to ensure that this is done in an environmentally sustainable way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133106	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133109	I certainly think it was a step in the right direction that the Prime Minister is also concerned about how we deal with the issue of shale gas and that we are looking at the environmental requirements for it. For what one should be aware of is that when the original authorisation was given back in 2010, it was given by the Left and Conservatives when they formed government, without the Folketing knowing that it was shale gas, but thought it was gas. In fact, the permit was therefore about shale gas. It became so clear when this government joined in 2011. What we are then concerned about is how we can impose environmental requirements on it, so that we can manage the consequences. Firstly, we need to manage the consequences in relation to our groundwater, which, unlike many of our neighbouring countries, is something we just have in the underground, but is something we drink. All water in Denmark comes almost from our groundwater. In addition, we have a problem dealing with radioactive waste, which is why, in connection with the Prime Minister's small opening, I would like to ask whether it is an opening to us to look at how we can make some environmental demands so that we can manage both the radioactive waste, the hazardous chemicals and protect not only the North Jutlanders and the North Zealanders, but in fact our all our groundwater, so that we can therefore get to grips with shale gas in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133228	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133230	I cannot, of course, go into the specific environmental requirements that should be; I believe that we must discuss this with the Minister for the Environment. But, of course, it is crucial that the drilling after shale gas takes place in a safe and environmentally sound manner. And I believe that the fact that we have now withdrawn competence to the Ministry of the Environment means that expertise is gathered there and that it is there that it can be assessed. But I also believe that we should recognise that we may have a slightly different attitude towards making these experimental drillings for shale gas, because if we can absorb it from the soil completely environmentally and safely, it can be a way to the green transition because, as I have said, the gas pollutes less than oil and coal does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133317	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133319	However, we also have a joint resolution in the Folketing that natural gas in Denmark should be phased out slowly, and it can be said that shale gas is just a contribution to the natural gas that needs to be dismantled and that we really need to get close to biogas. It makes sense. There is a work, among other things. near Holstebro, which supplies biogas to such an extent. There are many farmers around the country, among others. on Funen, where I think it's now almost 30 percent. of their energy supply coming from biogas. So it is not because we object to looking at new adventures and, in fact, constantly investigating how we deliver to our energy supply, oil, coal and gas, but it is also about getting into a regime that does not pollute our underground. That is why I was very pleased with the Prime Minister's announcement today, because of course we want to call the Minister for the Environment in consultation, but I would also like to discuss what environmental demands we have to make in connection with fracking. For so far, the challenge is, of course, that we have not made any environmental demands, not particularly in relation to the handling of chemicals and, above all, not in relation to the handling of radioactive waste. I think the Prime Minister as well as I am aware that the radioactive waste we have in connection with Risø has not been easy to place anywhere around Denmark. And I would say that the challenge will be just as great, because when you frack with shale gas, that is when you break it in the underground, there will be radioactive waste. I would like to see the government with the bill and the radioactive waste, for example. say to the citizens of Dybvad: It is indeed something that must be deposited in your backyard. This will not be a simple solution. If we can handle this in the Folketing, I'll be happy. So it turns out that the question time is not just for fun, but actually can also deliver results.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133457	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133459	Now I do not want to dampen Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's pleasure, but just say that there is nothing new in what I am saying, because I think the government has actually had this attitude to shale gas ever since the SF itself was part of the government, namely that we want to allow these drillings, but that it has to be carried out environmentally soundly. However, I would also like to say that if there are further matters to be discussed in relation to the environmental aspects of shale gas drilling, then the Minister for the Environment is the right person to ask those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133527	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as leader of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133534	I must say that I am amazed at the Prime Minister's reply to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on the question of DONG, and I think that the government and the Minister for Finance and now also the Prime Minister have an amazing tone-deafness in this matter. The latest development is, of course, that the Bureau of the Danish Parliament, which represents a majority in the Danish Parliament, has criticized the Finance Minister in very clear terms for showing a lack of confidence in the Danish Parliament. And that's because the Minister of Finance refuses to see decisive documents that could shed light on this DONG scandal. In concrete terms, we are talking about alternative purchases. Left member of the Bureau, sir. Bertel Haarder, I think, said it very well, and I quote: Parliament should not be treated as children who cannot be presented with confidential material. Quote out. I fully agree with Mr. Bertel Haarder. This is about something very fundamental. It's about the relationship between the government and the Folketing. It is about Parliament's ability to control and supervise the government's work. So we are at the heart of the people's rule. I simply do not think it is acceptable if a precedent is created whereby a minister can reject access to crucial documents, on the grounds that he does not trust the members of the Folketing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister not think that Parliament can be trusted?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133718	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133721	I believe that Parliament can be absolutely trusted, just as the Folketing can trust the government. It is clear that the Folketing must have the information they need. I do not think there are two views on that. However, certain information may also lead to the state being placed at a disadvantage in similar situations in the future. And I think we should respect what the Bureau of the Danish Parliament writes, namely that it is of course important that the Danish Parliament gets truthful information and that the Danish Parliament gets the information they need. At the same time, the Bureau writes in its reply that there may be circumstances leading to certain information not being passed on to the Folketing. And the Minister for Finance has then argued that this is precisely what is happening here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133810	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133812	In fact, I think the Bureau is very clear in their criticism of the Ministry of Finance in this DONG case. I think they are very clear in their criticism of the fact that relevant documents are not, of course, submitted in confidential form to the Finance Committee. I have to say that I think it is actually a pretty big problem that there is a lack of confidence in the Danish Parliament on the part of the government. In a forthcoming consultation which the Enhedslisten has called for on this matter and on the Bureau's criticism, I expect that we will be able to put together a majority in the Committee on Finance for the government to, of course, present the documents which the Minister of Finance is currently keeping secret. I expect this because the Bureau has made a clear criticism. The Bureau shall represent a majority of the Folketing. And, of course, I also expect the Finance Minister to follow the instructions that come from the Finance Committee. Well, I'm gonna ask about health. I would like to ask you about the fact that our health professionals are being set to run stronger and stronger every year. They do that in these economic agreements that are being made with the regions. Both the medical staff and the patients have started shouting guard in the rifle. They say that it is simply no use, that they must constantly operate more and more, that nurses must take care of more and more patients. What does the Prime Minister think? Can we be aware to the Danes that every year we ask our health professionals, our nurses, our doctors, our SOSUs, etc., to run stronger and stronger? Is there not a limit to the effectiveness of the treatment of sick people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133953	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519133955	I am glad that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen refers to the consultation which I think is scheduled for 2 June, when the Minister for Finance will then also be able to tell you about her views on this matter. However, I would like to stress that the government has the deepest respect for the Folketing and full respect for what the Bureau has said, where the Bureau also says that there may be exceptions to the general picture. In relation to health, I would say that it is absolutely right that there are many patients, fortunately, in today's Denmark, who will have information about their illness, who need to talk to health professionals, whatever stage they are at in their illness. This applies to both patients and relatives. Fortunately, we have some patients and relatives who would like to be part of their illness and understand things. In this way, things have changed. And that is why, of course, it does not work if there is a general feeling that patients cannot get in touch with healthcare professionals, whether they are in hospital or in another place in the health system. That is also why the government has done a great deal to strengthen health care. In the last three years of economic agreements, which we have made with the regions and municipalities, we have given priority to more funds for health, so that more hospital treatment, new hospital medicine and better prevention are available. And if you look at this area together, it's hard to see that there should be fewer people to do the same tasks, because the bottom line is precisely that more people have been able to solve the health care tasks. In fact, there have been 7,000 more people to solve health care tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134141	Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134143	Firstly, I would like to say that I fully agree with that, I think everyone is always trying to solve the tasks as smartly, as wisely and as quickly as possible. But I also think there is a limit to how effective a nurse can be, if I may say so. I think there's a limit to how many patients you can take care of. And I think the Prime Minister knows just as well as I do that in the last many years, when the economy has been negotiated with the regions that are in charge of hospitals, it has been demanded that there should be 2% running. In the hospitals more quickly every year, i.e. such an increase in productivity. This means that there are 11 hospitals just in the metropolitan area have been awarded an acid smiley by the Labour Inspectorate due to poor mental health and safety conditions. In North Jutland, the Danish Labour Inspectorate has imposed 37 requirements for poor mental health and safety at work. According to a recent study, half of the nurses consider that the pressure on their work is detrimental to patient safety. In other words, the pressure on the job is affecting patient safety. Danish patients are also shouting. I would like to ask the Prime Minister very specifically: will the negotiations with the regions right now be about how much money we need to spend on health, then again demand that our health professionals run stronger? Or is it to say that there is a limit to how much we can demand that health workers be made more efficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134312	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134314	I fully agree that you run very fast in the Danish health care system. You have many tasks, and basically you solve those tasks excellently. That is also why the government has prioritised its economic policy so that year by year we have been able to give more to our health, just as we will be able to spend more money on our health in the coming years. We have set aside 6.5 billion. kr. in the years from 2015 to 2018 to our healthcare system. This is one of the areas we do not just have. It is also one of the areas where more public servants have arrived. We didn't hear much about that when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen asked questions, but there have actually been 7,000 more people in our health services over the last few years. This underlines the fact that it is not right to draw a picture of the fact that what we have done in relation to health care is only paid for by efficiency improvements. In fact, there have also been more employees in the Danish health service. They're still running fast, but at least there's a little more to do now than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134422	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen as leader of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134430	First of all, on the subject of smileys and hospitals, I would like to say that I think it is worth highlighting, for example. Vejle Hospital, which has received a smiley with a crown on it, while at the same time having made it more efficient for 2, 3, 4 per cent. a year, i.e. that the working environment has improved considerably. So it is not just a question of how to make the working environment less efficient and smarter. Vejle Hospital is a good example of going in the opposite direction, and we just need more of that. I had hoped that elections would be held not really because I think it is time, because we can really wait in the Liberal Alliance, but the mood is like we have to have this election. On the other hand, I have always foretold that we should have this election after the summer holidays, and I can see that there are a number of besserwissers present in the gallery, and that ends up being allowed to outperform some of them, if only in this case. But normally I'm always wrong, and the Prime Minister still has the opportunity to surprise and discharge the elections before the summer break. Well, I fully acknowledge that I'm always wrong about the printing of elections, and I also hope I'm wrong this time. Well, let's go back to Question Time. Can't we get some bids from the Prime Minister about what the Prime Minister has of plans for Denmark? After all, we have had a discussion about what has happened under the Prime Minister's leadership, that is to say that there are fewer public employees. What we know is that with the plans that have been put forward, the things that have been adopted, Denmark has the prospect of the sixth lowest growth in the OECD up to 2030. We have had the fourth lowest growth from 1995 until today, and we now have the prospect of having the sixth lowest growth by 2030. Isn't it time to put in place a reform plan that will get us away from being a low-growth area, a low-growth country and into a super league? What does the government have to offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134621	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134624	It was a wonderful question about what the government's plans are forward-looking. Firstly, the more we want growth, and that is also why we have put in place a plan for how, year by year, we can have more growth and more private jobs in Denmark. And we follow that up with two growth plans. We have now put forward a little more than 50 proposals for growth, which will follow up on our concrete growth plans. And it has worked so much better with employment, so in this way our growth is in a really sensible path. But the attitude of the government is also that things need to be balanced, and that means that there must also be money to develop welfare in the coming years, and there we have set a framework where we can spend 3 billion without exceeding budgets, as we used to do in the past. kr. on average annually to develop our welfare. It is not much money, but it is enough for us to meet the demographic challenge and for our welfare in priority areas to improve in the years to come. So that's a short story. I don't have much time for the government's plan. What would be exciting on a day like this, during the last questioning hour of the parliamentary year, was to be told not from the Liberal Alliance, because I know the plans of the Liberal Alliance • what other parties' plans really are, because the government's plan is absolutely firm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134737	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134739	But the problem is that when government plans were calculated, and we got 50 growth initiatives last week, the Minister for Finance replied that this would give a further growth of approx. 1 billion kr. kr. It is not something that can be felt at all. That is also why the OECD figures show that, despite the government initiatives that have been so far, as has to be said to have been reasonably bloodless, we are no more than in a situation where we have the prospect of sixth lowest growth. So let us turn it around and say that the Prime Minister will obviously not be specific in relation to new measures, i.e. whether to touch the early retirement pay, whether to do something about early retirement, so that we do not have so many people on early retirement but can get them into the labour market. Then we can turn it around and start from the Liberal Alliance's bid, because it is true, as the Prime Minister says, that we have put forward a proposal, and the Finance Minister has calculated it and concluded that it will increase employment by 250,000 in the private sector. Why does the Prime Minister mind that proposal? What exactly is so unpleasant about increasing employment in the private sector with, according to the Finance Minister, 250 000? That's a very, very substantial number, a high number. By comparison, after the growth packages, the predictions have been that it will make an increased contribution of around 1,000-2,000 in increased employment by 2020. 250,000 extra in the private sector • Why is the Prime Minister opposed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134858	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519134900	As I said, I think it is good that the Liberal Alliance has presented its economic policy. It would be incredibly nice if the other parties would do the same. Then I am asked what I think of economic policy, and I think that is not so fine, because what is the matter of the economic policy of the Liberal Alliance is that it will create more inequality in Denmark. After all, we are going to give very, very large tax concessions to the very highest incomes, and the second part of that is that it will mean drastic cuts in the public sector. The calculations also show that there will be 90,000 fewer employees in the public sector. In other words, we need to eliminate one in ten in the public sector, and I believe that most people who receive public sector services or are themselves employed in the public sector can see that it can be very difficult to do without one in ten colleagues, and that is basically what the Liberal Alliance is proposing. Fair enough, if you want to admit to the Danes that it provides worse service, but unfortunately you will not. But that goes without saying, and I think most people can figure out this, that fewer employees in such a large number as the Liberal Alliance suggests will also result in worse service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135012	Sir. Anders Samuelsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135014	But I started by just congratulating the Prime Minister on the fact that under her governance there has been a hospital in Denmark where you have made it more efficient from 2 to 4 per cent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. The Prime Minister was very pleased that I commended her, namely that this is what is happening under her governance. We will then spread it beyond the rest of the public sector, follow the government's own Productivity Commission, which says that just by doing best practice, that is to say just be inspired by e.g. Vejle Hospital, then you can get the efficiency improvement equivalent to 90,000 in the public sector. You can do that without firing a single one. Every year 60 000 people leave the public sector, so we just have to reinstate approx. 51,000 and focus them in the hot sector. It is the government's own figures, it is the government's own commission that has said this. I'm not the one who's saying that. But the point is still gone in the end, that the Prime Minister will not be involved. 90,000 fewer in the public sector through natural departures, although the gift is 250,000 more in the private sector in increased employment, i.e. a net increase of over 100,000 net jobs in Denmark. The Prime Minister says no to this, and I have not heard the explanatory statement yet, since we are based on the government's own figures. And I am still missing, and that is not going to happen, of course; I am not counting on the government's own proposal for what you will do to increase growth in concrete terms yourself. There is going to be some talk about having some ambitions, but there is never anything concrete, unfortunately. Try to explain why you are so opposed to the 250,000 in increased employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135146	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135148	So, the concrete are two very, very large growth packages and 50 new proposals that will increase growth in Denmark. So there are very specific answers in this way. However, I would like to respond to this with improvements in efficiency, because it is clear that if we are to make the Liberal Alliance more efficient, we will be able to increase the efficiency of 80 billion. kr., there will be more employees in the private sector. It goes without saying that this is the way it will be. You can also fire half the public employees, and then there will also be more employees in the private sector. That goes without saying. However, we must also be careful how hard we are going to achieve efficiency in the public sector. In comparison, I can say that the government has a plan to make 12 billion more efficient. kr. It's a big number we're gonna get up there, but it's a big number and it means that in many areas of the public sector you have to turn every penny. By comparison, the Liberal Alliance will make 80 billion more efficient. kr., and that's quite a different order of magnitude. What the Liberal Alliance still needs to answer is how to provide the same service to citizens when one in ten employees in the public sector are missing. I think most of the others, apart from Mr. Knox... Anders Samuelsen can see that it simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135303	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135309	This is also my last hour, so question time, in this round, and I have to say it's been an experience. It has also been challenging because the Prime Minister takes the floor Question Time very literally; everyone asks and asks, but nobody really gets answers. The point was, you had to kick your ass off a little bit. If I'm to be honest, I don't really think the Prime Minister thinks it's been very funny. I think that after the next election you should have a concept, so the Prime Minister too thinks it's fun to be in Question Time. I would like to ask a few questions about the fight against terrorism, because it is no secret that the fight against terrorism is important to the Conservative People's Party. We want a safe and secure Denmark, and there's a new security threat, these foreign fighters. Yesterday we read that so far 32 returned Syrian warriors have been found who have received cash aid while they have been down fighting for the Islamic State. It must of course offend a great many, including myself, that in addition to choosing Islamic State and fighting against Danes and against Danish and Western values, they also receive cash assistance. This is not new either, because as early as November last year we read in Jyllands-Posten that PET had found 28 holy warriors with Danish transfer income in their backs. It then led us in the bourgeois camp to table a resolution in February to impose a ban on Danish citizens entering these terrorist and war-torn areas of Syria and Northern Iraq. At that time, the Prime Minister and the government voted against the proposal, and I would just like to ask whether the government will now help to fight hard and prohibit holy warriors who even receive Danish cash aid from going to holy war in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135505	Before the Prime Minister responds to that, I have to repeat that we have not finished Question Time. I can hear that the voices are getting higher in the corners of the Chamber, but now we are trying to keep quiet in the Chamber so that we can hear both questions and answers. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135524	I fully agree that it is totally unacceptable that people born and raised in Denmark should go down and fight with IS and basically fight against us and our allies. That is unacceptable. That is also why we have introduced the possibility of taking the passport from the young people who are on their way. And we've done a lot to stop people getting the crazy idea to go down and fight with IS. It's crazy, and we have to do what we can to stop it. If you then receive social benefits at the same time, it makes it even more absurd that it takes place, and I think everyone agrees entirely with that. If such a thing happens, that is to say, that you get social benefits and go into some sort of holy war, it must of course be stopped immediately. I think everyone agrees with that is something that must be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135620	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135622	Well, it's almost as if my last hour has come, because it must be something quite natural that you don't bring cash aid into holy war. But what I asked, and what I asked the Prime Minister to answer, was whether the Prime Minister is prepared to go further and prohibit entry to these areas without prior authority approval. I understand that you don't want to be a part of that. So the fight against holy war is not so much fought. In four months' time, the mandate for military action against the Islamic State expires, and the Foreign Minister recognizes that we have not yet achieved our goal. In fact, we are very much in agreement with this in the Conservative People's Party. Since October last year the Danish F-16s have been on their wings more than 300 times, and this is very good, and it is very important. It is also important to extend the Danish contribution. At least we think so. We also believe that there should still be a combat aircraft contribution, and we would also like the soldiers down there to train the Iraqi security forces. That is why my question to the Prime Minister must really only be very open, and now I hope and cross my fingers that we will have an answer: whether the Prime Minister will be involved and would like to extend the mandate of our soldiers who have been deployed now or after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135734	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135736	I have to say that I have followed the debate on this with whether it makes a difference that we are here in Iraq and with our allies in Syria. And I find it very difficult to accept this picture that if we had just not gone, the matter would have been solved. For the truth is that with the efforts we have made in Denmark together with our allies, it is also very likely that we have managed to hold ISIL back for several months. Are we in the finish line? No, we certainly are not. Therefore today a great thank you from the Folketing and also from the government to the people who are down there. I've been down to see them. They are fighting a fantastic brave battle to keep ISIL back in Iraq, and their work is worth it. I fully agree with that. At some point, then, we must decide whether or not to extend their mandate. I certainly wouldn't rule out that we should. It is very possible that we should do so. And I would like to thank and acknowledge that the Left and Conservatives have already reported so clearly that they think we should do so. But I still believe that the government will look at the situation on earth and discuss this with our allies before we report out so clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135847	Mrs. Mai Mercado, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519135849	In fact, I think that was the first time that there was such a hint of an answer, and I am very pleased about that, and I hope that it will continue now. When the government came up with its plan "A strong protection against terrorism," one of the initiatives said that PET should have access to information about air passengers. There is no doubt that legal certainty is very important to us, and we would like this information to be obtained only with a court order, but the text itself states that PET will have access to relevant information. When you look at the bill, you actually see that it is information that has to go through the SKAT and that PET can then retrieve the information from SKAT. In fact, one of the consultation answers says that the Danish Customs & Tax Federation sees the proposal as a step in the right direction, which will strengthen the possibility of profiling potential smugglers in the context of customs controls. Suddenly something that used to be about the fight against terrorism comes to be about the fight against customs controls. It smells a bit like giving SKAT even more power, even more powers, so I just want to ask the Prime Minister: why is it suddenly that it is SKAT that has to recover this information, and why is it not PET, as it was first intended?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140007	Then it's the PM. I'm still asking for quiet in the Chamber until we finish Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140009	I think that Mrs Mai Mercado has gotten the bill a little wrong, but I would actually recommend that we discuss it with the Minister for Justice. But basically in relation to this PNR proposal, I still hope that we can count on the Conservatives and the Left and other parties who have been positive about this proposal to continue to be so. For it is absolutely crucial in our fight against terrorism that we have better access to these passenger registers; it is a necessary tool. I am very pleased that we have had the bill put forward, I also hope that we can get it adopted, and I hope that what both Conservatives and the Left have said earlier on this proposal will mean that we can get this proposal adopted. It is an incredibly important tool in combating terrorism and something the government has been fighting for for for a very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140100	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. Then that's the last question, sir. Uffe Elbæk, as the leader of the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140107	Thank you for that, President. In fact, I will continue a little along the same lines as the last question from the Conservatives. Because yesterday in Politiken one could read that the government intended to give PET access to monitor all Danes' travel habits, both in terms of identity and passport information and down to who they actually travel with. the intensification of arbitrary mass monitoring of ordinary people's travel habits. This is, of course, something that the alternative is deeply concerned about, because we see a departure from the necessary monitoring of citizens, of course, on the basis of reasonable suspicions and then to completely arbitrary mass surveillance of completely law-abiding citizens in Denmark. Today it is the case that we can also monitor our e-mail correspondence, our text messages, our phones, and so we see a slip in the way we deal with citizens' rights to privacy. This is, of course, a matter of great concern to us, and if it was not the Minister's wording, it was at least the wording of the newspaper in the title that Denmark was becoming the world champion in monitoring citizens. There, of course, I want to hear from the Prime Minister whether it really is the government's intention to make Denmark the world's country where citizens are most monitored.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140246	There are six minutes left of Question Time, and I ask for silence in the Chamber. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140251	First of all, a few things: it is not right that you can monitor people's e-mails and phone calls. After all, a warrant is required to go in and monitor a specific person's contacts just so it's completely in place. What is important to the government in this context is that we have the necessary tools to combat terrorism. There is nothing to make us think that we can relax in relation to the terrorist threat that is against us in the Western world, and that is why we need to use tools so that we can monitor potential terrorists. There's this thing about accessing passenger lists... an access we've had in other ways in the past... absolutely crucial. It's easy to resist. One may well be opposed to these various measures, but I also have to say clearly, in all due respect to the questioner, that one will then also weaken Denmark's ability to combat terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140349	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140351	I almost expected the Prime Minister to give this answer, and it is clear that there is a difference of opinion here as to how we deal with the issue of terrorism. Of course, there must be an opportunity to monitor citizens on the basis of a legitimate suspicion, of course there must be. What I blame is mass surveillance. What is interesting, and I am not the only one who is concerned about this is that there are a large number of civil and human rights organisations which also raise the red flag. I would like to make a very specific quote from the Vice-President of the European Parliamentary Committee on Citizens' Rights and Justice and Home Affairs, Jan Philipp Albrecht, and now I quote directly: "It is an open breach of fundamental rights to collect and store passenger data mass-based. It doesn't even have on the ground. ▪ My question to the Prime Minister is, of course, whether it is not paradoxical that with the ambition to protect our democratic freedoms, we are selling out of them. What is the Prime Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140500	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140502	Well, I totally disagree. I completely disagree with the fact that we have a mass surveillance society and that we are in some way close to a border where we are over-monitoring citizens. That is why I have to say that if you want to combat terrorism, and we have to do so, you have to have the right tools. Then there is no point in us not having the courage to enter into the discussions on how to do it most effectively. There's this thing about accessing passenger lists, an extremely important tool to find out if potential terrorists are going in and out of the country. It is an extremely important tool and I therefore hope, of course, that we can obtain a majority in favour of this in the Folketing. It is a very important next step to combat the forces that will a country like Denmark hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140553	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140555	We do have a very short time, but I really want to make some comments about the European Court of Justice, which has just said that Denmark exceeded its powers in relation to the logging directive, but it must be at another time. My last question is, in fact, that in the very same article in Politiken there was an announcement from what is known as the Digital Security Council, which said that it was not at all necessary to introduce these new measures on citizens' travel activities if we otherwise wanted to detect suspicious travel patterns. It was simply not necessary to go down to the CPR level and to get so close to the citizens. What is the position of the Prime Minister in relation to the clear recommendation of the Digital Security Council, that is, that this is not necessary at all if we want to detect suspicious travel patterns? Because you can do it already today without using the CPR number.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140649	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140651	As we have discussed many times and as the Minister of Justice has also expressed, there is a need to protect ourselves that there are some people who can be closely followed and that our intelligence services can follow some people closely, because that is the way to foresee certain actions, anticipate extremist actions or attitudes so that you can uncover the tracks. And there you have to have this way of going in, that is by uncovering passenger lists; you have to find a way of doing that. So this is an important and a very relevant step in order to protect ourselves and ensure that we can take a tough stand against terrorists who want to hurt Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140738	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk, and thank the Prime Minister. The question is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140752	I have been informed by the Prime Minister that responsibility for matters relating to the regulation of Danish activities in outer space is transferred to the Minister for Education and Research. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 8 May 2015 provides that the responsibility for matters relating to the regulation of Danish activities in outer space, including issues relating to the approval, control and registration of launches of space objects, the responsibility for participation in international cooperation on activities in outer space, as well as for coordination and cooperation between Danish authorities with space-related responsibilities, is assigned to the Minister of Education and Research. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Helle Thorning-Schmidt Today there is the following review: Finn Sørensen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 172 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on ethical public procurement and investment policy). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 172 is referred directly to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140909	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519140932	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 52 by Nikolaj Villumsen, Søren Pind, Jacob Lund, Lone Loklindt, Holger K. Nielsen, Mette Bock and Lars Barfoed. This must be due to a misunderstanding in committee. Sir. Søren Pind is not a co-author here, I can listen to the calls. We shall vote on it anyway, and we shall vote on it now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 64 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), against 0, abstentions 41 (V and DF). Proposal for adoption No V 52 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141107	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. First, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 54 by Jacob Lund, Lone Loklindt, Holger K. Nielsen and Lars Barfoed, and you can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 50 (S, RV, SF, KF and ALT), against 13 (EL and LA), abstentions 40 (V and DF). Proposal for adoption No V 54 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 53 of Nikolaj Villumsen lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141206	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141218	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 55 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 37 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 13 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141310	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141345	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141404	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the proposal. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 99 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, and ALT) voted against, 0 abstentions 5 (LA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141441	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141454	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 68 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 37 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141546	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 103 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141614	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141631	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 81 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 22 (DF, EL and 1 (LA) (by mistake)), abstention 1 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141705	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141719	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 101 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141752	Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519141804	Thank you. I would just like to take the floor quickly and remind you of what we are about to vote on now. It is a total of six motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten, which are concerned with ensuring more equitable pay and pension conditions for ministers and members of parliament. It is in its simplicity about something as trivial as that politicians must have the same retirement age as ordinary people, employees, because there is nothing particularly grueling about sitting on the soft seats we sit on in the Chamber, which says that we must be able to retire before everyone else. Then it is a question of having at least two years on the ministerial taboo before you have access to the very favourable conditions which it triggers; that you should not be able to earn those conditions as quickly as today; and, above all, that a ceiling should be set so that you can have no more than 1⁄2 million. kr. a total of pension from various political positions per year. It is also about something as absolutely fundamental as not being able to get a pension, while running around and receiving a salary as a member of parliament, as some people do. All in all, it is not a proposal that sends someone to the poor farm. Nor is it a proposal that really brings the overall political stand down to roughly the same conditions as an average employee in Denmark. It's nothing violent. It is not really very intrusive, and it is certainly not unreasonable at all. Nevertheless, we are likely to be voted down in a moment. We do so because a majority has deposited its votes with a so-called remuneration committee, which consists of former politicians and some bureaucrats, and which will in all likelihood come to the conclusion that politicians, for some mysterious reason, deserve to have even more favourable conditions than there are today. It is noteworthy, at any rate, that exactly the Commission has not received the same limit as the Commission on Daily Allowances, that is to say that, overall, no more money can be spent. When it comes to politicians, more money can be spent; when it comes to the unemployed, the box is empty. It's a transfer of responsibility, so it's beating, and it's really, really embarrassing. If nothing else, you should have it in your mind if you vote against this motion for a resolution. It is a final appeal just to make it almost more understandable to the common Dane what conditions we have in here behind the thick walls.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142057	Thank you to the rapporteur. Anyone else want to make a statement? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142103	We shall vote on the final adoption of motion for a resolution No. B 75 now. I shall conclude the vote. It's like the keys are a little sluggish today, I think, than they used to be. In favour of 25 (DF, EL and LA), against 77 (V, S, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 1 (ALT). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142150	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142200	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 27 (DF, EL, LA and ALT), against 77 (V, S, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142229	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142242	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 21 (DF and EL), against 77 (V, S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 6 (LA and ALT). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142311	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142326	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 21 (DF and EL), against 78 (V, S, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (LA and ALT). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142410	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 21 (DF and EL), against 78 (V, S, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (LA and ALT). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142439	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142453	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 27 (DF, EL, LA and ALT), against 78 (V, S, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142525	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142542	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 27 (DF, EL, LA (by mistake) and ALT) voted against 38 (S and RV), abstaining 40 (V, SF and KF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142617	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142641	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 50 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142717	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142737	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 50 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142811	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then the vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142826	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The proposal has been adopted unanimously by 102 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519142858	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I'll take a short break while the conversations move out of the Parliamentary Chamber before we go to the first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143017	The debate is open. Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143043	Thank you for the floor. In this draft parliamentary resolution, the government is required to ensure that Danish universities can offer education at neighbouring universities located in the border area to Denmark. This proposal therefore calls for an amendment to the university law. The authors of the proposal justify the proposal by saying that it is very important for the continued development of border regions that Danish universities are given the opportunity to finance the supply of subjects at the foreign neighbouring universities located in the border area. In this way, students in the border regions of our neighbouring countries can have the opportunity to take courses offered at these universities by a Danish university from the same border region. I assume that with the border area to Denmark, the land-based border area between Germany and Denmark is meant first and foremost, but also, of course, that it should be an option in, for example, Denmark. Øresund Region. The economic consequences of the proposal change on the basic premise we have that education must be offered in Denmark in order to receive grants from the Danish state. This is a premise which was clarified in 2005 by the then scientific minister Helge Sander from the Left, and I think that we should really think very carefully before changing it. Increased internationalisation in education is important for Denmark's opportunities to take full advantage of globalisation's opportunities to create jobs and growth. I think we are in complete agreement on that. International cooperation in education helps to improve the quality of Danish education and training environments, and this prepares students well for the global labour market. This is particularly the case in the mutual exchange of students by means of exchange agreements or in genuine joint courses offered in cooperation between two or more institutions across borders. So it is important that internationalisation in the field of education takes place, I believe, in a way that knowledge and competences go both ways, so that there is also a benefit for the Danish study environments and for students in Denmark who do not take a study stay abroad. At the same time, of course, I would like to emphasise very clearly that the government is very concerned about strengthening cross-border Danish-German cooperation, including in the field of education. Regional cooperation in border regions can, of course, make a particular contribution to the development of the region, and this is obviously a development which must not only strengthen training but also strengthen growth in the regions through the expansion of the regional labour market. This is also the focus of the government when the Growth Partnership Agreement for 2015 was just concluded with the Southern Denmark Growth Forum. I am also in continuous dialogue with Schleswig-Holstein's Minister for Culture, Justice and European Affairs, Anke Spoorendonk, to discuss precisely how we can strengthen education cooperation across the Danish-German border. The government, as I am sure the authors are aware, has just signed a joint Danish-German ministerial declaration with Schleswig-Holstein, in which the parties have undertaken to strengthen the dialogue on cross-border cooperation in education. As part of this commitment, we have among other things. already entered into a dialogue with the educational institutions in the border region on how we can jointly find a solution to the wishes for educational cooperation that the parties have. I think it is very, very positive that the University of Southern Denmark and the European University of Flensburg have many years' tradition of cross-border educational cooperation. I believe that their joint training programmes are a very attractive offer for international students and thus not only for students from Denmark and Germany. There are also other educational institutions which collaborate with German educational institutions: UC Syddanmark has it, Business Academy Southwest has it. This is a development which I would very much like to see strengthened for the entire higher education sector. That is why my ministry, as I mentioned, is in very close dialogue with the German partners, with the University of Southern Denmark and with the other higher education institutions in the border region and, of course, with the Region of Southern Denmark. In this way, I think we can ensure long-term and also mutually beneficial educational cooperation across the border between Denmark and Germany and for the entire higher education sector. However, I believe that international cooperation in the field of education should be based on an economic model which allocates expenditure appropriately. This is what the current rules, which were clarified in 2005, take into account. It is only the educational elements that take place in Denmark that trigger a grant from the Danish state. In this way, this model supports an incentive structure, which means that educational cooperation takes place through a real exchange, a real sharing of knowledge between the participating universities, between the participating countries. In this way, we also support that knowledge and competences go both ways in that cooperation. This is certainly also a benefit for the Danish study environments and for students in Denmark who do not take such a study stay. In this way, I agree with the proposers that we must constantly look at how we can strengthen education cooperation in border regions. I believe that we should uncover barriers and wanted opportunities for educational cooperation and to conduct the dialogue with the educational institutions in the region that we have started and committed ourselves to through the declaration before we should resort to legislative changes. But, of course, I would also very much like to commit myself to keeping the Education and Research Committee closely informed about that dialogue. It is quite fertile and, as I said, just started. So on the basis of the views I think I have been through here, I hope it is clear that I cannot support the motion for a resolution B 121.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143742	Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143745	Thank you. Thank you for the Minister's words about the appropriateness of strengthening cross-border cooperation. I would very much like to know if the Minister could be more specific about what initiatives the Minister is going to take. For so far, the Minister has, of course, prevented the strengthening of cross-border cooperation in this way that the SDU had to stop its offer in Flensburg. And it would be interesting if the Minister could also explain what the advantage is of the students who were in Flensburg now having to go to Sønderborg to receive the education they would otherwise have received in Flensburg if you could finance the teaching in Flensburg. So what advantage do they have now to go to Sønderborg, and what exactly are some initiatives the Minister will take to strengthen cross-border cooperation in the field of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143836	First of all, in relation to the activities of the University of Southern Denmark, together with the European University of Flensburg, I would like to say that what has happened is a strengthening of existing rules. The Ministry has informed the University of Southern Denmark of the law in force in relation to the actual cooperation structure, namely that if the university wanted to receive the activity-specific grants, it should be done in such a way as to support only training activities in the country to which they belong. But we in the Ministry are also in close dialogue with the German partners. A number of meetings have been held and we are going to go even closer into it. There the Ministry includes both the University of Southern Denmark and the other higher education institutions in the region to ensure that there are some beneficial and mutual long-term educational collaborations. I think this is quite obvious, it just cannot be in a way that does not comply with applicable law and so that it will cost the Danish state.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143948	Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519143950	Does the Minister agree that the cost of everything else equal must be the same, whether the teaching takes place in Sønderborg or whether it takes place in Flensburg? So this is not a discussion about the economy, but a discussion about principles. That is also why the motion for a resolution calls on the government to amend the law, because, of course, the law must be respected. However, I understand that the Minister does not at first have any sympathy. Here is, of course, a concrete example in which we could show that we respect the fact that things are a little different in a border region. I would only like to commend the Minister for the fact that there are a lot of meetings and that there is a good dialogue, but if nothing comes out of it I did not get an answer as to whether there were any concrete initiatives on the way it does not give much to the citizens of the border region. And here one could say very easily with a change of law that of course SDU can teach these students in Flensburg as well as in Sønderborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144048	I think Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen knows very well what it is like when you sit in government when it may sometimes be difficult, but that the laws must actually be observed. And it is not just a matter of changing it because a single university has practiced for a shorter period. We have not made a thorough assessment of the economic consequences of implementing the proposal, but that will mean that others will be able to do the same things, in other words that it will be possible to provide training in neighbouring countries. Then you will have to make a geographical demarcation, it will also depend on how many seats are offered and how popular those offers are. One can well imagine that it will be popular to set up Danish courses in Sweden and Norway, and that will have to be defined very considerably in that case. I don't think it's a viable path to go. I think that the way to go is to seek the educational cooperation that I fully agree with the questioner in that we must, and to establish concrete educational cooperation across borders where both or more educational institutions involved in cooperation and the countries involved contribute equally, so that it is genuinely mutual cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144228	Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144232	Thank you. This year we have the celebration of the 100th anniversary of women's voting rights, but there are also only 5 years before it is the 100th anniversary of the fact that we have a whole region that voted home, and we have always ensured that it was for that reason that we have always looked very carefully and been very aware of how to deal with education, togetherness and exchanges, and we have found solutions every single time. I am very surprised that I have a minister from a party who has so much cherished the special situation in southern Denmark. So I have to ask for the Minister's explanation once again: why is it that we will not even be left open to us to change the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144327	I think it is worthwhile appealing to the feelings that I think we can all find and which I fully share. But I also think I have to point out that there is a little electoral campaign going on here when, as an opposition party, we can table motions for resolutions to amend the law that we ourselves drafted when we had the ministerial post, precisely in order to tighten up and clarify that this should not be possible, and so now we want it to cost more money. If you allow it, it will be a construction where only a campus is taught in Flensburg on the courses in question, and this does not, in my opinion, bring the most optimal benefits from the cooperation, because it must be a mutual cooperation that contributes to the educational environment in both Sønderborg and Flensburg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144430	Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144433	But we are very interested in a future that makes sense and we learn from everything we can. We have learned that ten years ago we did one, but we are in a new place today, and the SDU has shown us that this will be possible, so that it can be done in a good way. Why is it that we then say: No, because we said ten years ago that it was not possible to do so, will we never ever be able to do so? Well, the future is, of course, that we cherish our Southern Denmark, and the SDU has shown us that it is possible. Well, come on, I'll tell the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144507	It is because there has been a practice that others have not taken advantage of. But if that practice is legalized, it will be something that many, many others will also be able to avail themselves of, and then we will have to finance education in other countries for Danish funds. I still think that is, I have to say, almost a little cross-border, that it is the Left's approach to it. I am deeply concerned that SDU will have the opportunity to expand its cooperation with Flensburg University, just as I am deeply concerned that all Danish universities and professional colleges and professional academies, which have just as much interest in these things, will have the opportunity to expand that cooperation. In fact, I think that the principle introduced by Helge Sander was quite sensible. I think we can look at other and new ways, but I do not think we should go where it becomes a principle that we fund Danish education abroad, because then I can see it run out of hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144609	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen who will wait until the end because she is the rapporteur for the proposers. Then we'll go to mr. Jeppe Bruus, speaking for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144644	Thank you for that, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for, of course, drawing attention to what we are all concerned with, namely how we develop our cooperation in the border area too. This is, of course, a very good opportunity to discuss why higher education is important and especially from a national and international perspective. I hope that there is no doubt that if there is something that is of concern to this government, it is, of course, education which is one of our top priorities. We have also taken many initiatives to improve the quality of our education and, as such, to strengthen internationalisation, which is why I would like to respond to the proposers, whom I am thinking primarily of our German neighbour, who also has a great potential for growth and whom we must all be able to exploit. Having said that, I would like to say a little in line with what the Minister has already said, that there are, of course, some challenges to the resolution that lies here. Quite frankly, I find it difficult to see what the boundaries are, both in terms of geography, but also in terms of economics, and that is why we need to work hard to develop the cooperation that exists with the initiatives that are under way and, of course, also to see how we can do better in the future. But I think it is a little fast to put forward a proposal which requires the government to amend a law without really knowing the consequences of it, and that is why we in the Socialist Group cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144836	Thank you. No, there was a brief comment. Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144841	Thank you. I'd like to give you a positive sign to Mr. Knox. Jeppe Bruus for the positive messages about cross-border cooperation and then hear what Social Democracy thinks there might be of new initiatives. What practical steps could be taken to strengthen cross-border cooperation? Here we see an opportunity which the SDU has set on its feet and which they have received from the Minister they are not allowed to. As we mentioned earlier, the economy is the same because the students instead of getting their teaching in Flensburg now get it in Sønderborg. I'm just asking, when Mr. Jeppe Bruus says that we should look at what we can do better, what kind of action the Social Democrats would like to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519144924	Thank you. There is, of course, a long line that we have already been working on, among other things. to look at how you can take internships abroad, how you can develop joint training etc. After all, the model before us is that it is financed. There may well be cooperation, but it is financed in each country and there will in fact be increased cooperation between students. But what the proposal here suggests is that you make a more clean cut, where you can have SDU, which funds education in Flensburg, without really any Danish students involved. That is where we think it is more appropriate for there to be a mutual exchange of knowledge. I am not a complete expert on the cooperation that is taking place, and that is why, having made this proposal, I thought that it might come from the SDU. I must be honest and say that I have not actually received a single request from the SDU in this matter, which surprises me a little bit, because I thought perhaps they were the ones who had pressed for it. But I would still like to say positively that we would of course like to take part in this, but we are not sure where the definition of the proposal that has been put forward goes, and that is why I think it is objectively enough to oppose it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145035	Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145036	I welcome the commitment to take a positive view of what options can be given. I am concerned that we are thinking modernly about what opportunities can be made use of in the border country. And I think it is really a pity when the Minister is stuck in a ten-year-old set of rules in this area rather than looking at how to make it even more attractive to study, settle and find work in that region. So I would just like to acknowledge positively that this might give us the opportunity to enter into a more concrete discussion on what initiatives the border region might need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145113	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sorry, we need an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145120	Thank you. I would now like to say that we may hear the Minister in two different ways, because I hear the Minister actually being very positive and accommodating. And if we all are, I wonder if we can't work out how to move on together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145135	Then I say thank you, and then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145147	Thank you. This is actually a very sympathetic proposal. We in the Danish People's Party have a great desire to support the opportunities of the Danish minority in the border country between Denmark and Germany. It is important for us that we support the possibility of Danish schools and therefore also like higher education in Danish subjects. The background to the proposal is a concrete collaboration between SDU and the Europa-Universität Flensburg, which has been established with an invitation to tender from SDU of Danish-language courses in Flensburg. Of course, that should also be possible in the future. There is of course an opportunity to take education in Denmark, and the current subjects can be offered in Sønderborg under the current rules, but in the Danish People's Party we believe that in the same way as we support that there are Danish schools and colleges in Schleswig, we should of course also support the possibility of higher Danish education. That is why we should be discussing this proposal quite seriously. When we look at the ministerial proposals made in relation to a particular problem, it is on the one hand about the small problem that it is not equally legal for Danish universities to pay for courses abroad, and on the other hand there is no possibility of a derogation. This is a detail that we must, of course, have looked at. Generally speaking, it is a sensible rule that Danish universities are not free to offer teaching abroad paid by the Danish state, but in this situation there should actually be the possibility of exemption when looking at the speciality of the Danish minority that applies in the relationship between Denmark and Germany. We are therefore in favour of looking at the possibility of defining and managing universities' opportunities in these areas. I am therefore pleased to hear the Minister say that a dialogue is under way and that there is a great deal of work to be done to find solutions. We therefore hope, of course, that in the work of the committee we will be able to look at how these opportunities can be created and created so that we can solve these problems and create the best opportunities in the border country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145351	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145400	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing today, as several rapporteurs have also explained, is a proposal that the government should ensure that Danish universities are able to offer education at the universities in our neighbouring countries, in the border area around Denmark, in Danish. With this proposal, it is also necessary, as has also been explained by previous rapporteurs, to amend the university law, because the proposal will break with what is laid down in the law that an education at a university must be offered in Denmark in order to obtain grants. On behalf of the Radical Left, I would like to make it clear that it is of course important for us in Denmark to be committed to increased internationalisation in education, just as the border areas are obviously also important. We are pleased, as the Socialist rapporteur has also said, with the initiatives taken to strengthen Danish-German cooperation, including in particular. training on several levels. There are, of course, good examples of cooperation between institutions across borders, such as cooperation between the University of Southern Denmark and the European University of Flensburg. The Radical Left is therefore, of course, and I can fortunately also hear that this is the way it is, the whole body around agrees that cross-border cooperation in education is important and that it is particularly important across the Danish-German border. We also believe that this should be done in the right way, in terms of subsidies. And here we are of the opinion that it is true that the courses offered in Denmark then trigger grants from the Danish state, and that Danish and German educational institutions can then, of course, conclude agreements on cooperation and also on co-financing of it here. So the proposal in question cannot be supported by the Radical Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145623	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519145636	Thank you. And thank you for having the discussion here today. As most people know, South Jutland and Schleswig-Holstein have a long common history, and it was once also marked by war about the right to the same area. In 1920 the border was established, and with the Copenhagen-Bonn Declaration in 1955 the area's population was papered that they could confess to Danish or German nationality and culture. In the border country, therefore, it is the individual who is free to determine the language area to which he is attached and that it must not be verified by either governments or other rulers. Today, Denmark has a good cooperation with Germany, for example. Region of Southern Denmark's Partnership Agreement with Schleswig-Holstein, which includes: makes it easier for Southern dancers and North Germans to take advantage of opportunities on both the Danish and German labour markets. In the field of education, too, efforts are being made to strengthen cross-border cooperation. In 1991 the University of Southern Denmark entered into cross-border cooperation with the European University of Flensburg. Until then, SKU received taximeter subsidies for the courses they offered at the University of Flensburg. Unfortunately, this was ended when, according to the University Act, the Board of Higher Education found that the courses could not receive grants because they did not take place on Danish soil; it is a prerequisite that both teaching and exams take place in Denmark. It has had a number of unfortunate consequences, it may be said, that universities have had to organise their cooperation on teaching courses so that students are to be transported from Flensburg to Sønderborg to the subjects offered by SDU, even though the students' transport costs have so far been covered by SDU; but this is just not a viable solution for modern cooperation. I would therefore strongly appeal for a solution to be drawn up so that we can get the teaching back to the University of Flensburg as soon as possible. This will benefit both students and the local cultural and business community. That was my expectation, and I had probably hoped that we would have started this discussion under the auspices of the committee, because then we could have heard there too that it is at least my expectation that the ministry is in dialogue with the University of Southern Denmark, I could also understand that from the Minister, and that we will of course be informed of how to deal with this situation for the benefit of the students, for the benefit of the educational institutions involved, research institutions and also for the benefit of the surrounding society. With that said, we support the intention of the proposal in the SF. I expect there to be some work in progress on which we will soon be informed, but we cannot vote in favour of the proposal, because there is no information at all about any kind of funding or anything here either. But we support the intention and look forward to getting involved in what the Ministry is planning in cooperation with the University of Southern Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150002	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not think anyone in the border country will be stumbled by the fact that the province is called Schleswig-Holstein. What did I tell you? ) Schleswig-Holstein. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150020	Thank you. I'll be very brief. In the Enhedslisten, we cannot support this resolution, and we cannot, because we regard this resolution as further marketing our university education, and that is a direction in which we in the Enhedslist do not want our universities to move. In addition, we are concerned that the proposal will open up user charges that we are looking at in higher education in countries other than Denmark when Danish universities are about to offer teaching in other countries. So, for the two reasons, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150105	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150113	In the Liberal Alliance we follow the cross-border cooperation in South Jutland and Northern Germany with great attention. We have Mette Bock, who is president of the Border Association, so we feel very well informed. That is why we are also looking at this proposal with positive attention, but I would say that so far it is only with positive attention because we think we lack some answers from the Left in relation to the way in which the proposal has been put together. Firstly, we find it difficult to see how the economy of the proposal is to be linked, i.e. whether there are any increased expenditures for which we cannot fully answer. Secondly, we do not have an answer as to why such cooperation cannot be carried out, what is to say, the general principles of the market. So, if there is a demand in Flensburg for Danish language courses, why don't they hire a lecturer or a professor to organise such courses themselves? I think that can be resolved in the ordinary cooperation between universities and the other institutions which are now working in the border country. So despite the fact that we are so positive about this kind of proposal, I would say that we still lack some good arguments from the Left that this cooperation cannot work under normal market conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150247	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150258	It is the case that when a law stands in the way of good intentions and initiatives, either you can block the initiatives and leave the way closed, or you can start to change the way and make sure that the law is amended or revised so that you are able to catch up with the good initiatives. After all, we have long wanted to work together and there is general agreement in the border region that Nordslesvig, Sydslesvig and Schleswig-Holstein work together and have a lot of cooperation across the border. That is what we are promoting, and we want to promote it, so it must be said that the barrier that exists is something out of date in relation to the situation we have achieved in the region. We support Danish schools and colleges in Sydslesvig, as has been said, and we will be pleased that there is Danish education and that the Danish University of SDU can provide Danish education and Danish literature teaching at the University of Flensburg. It will, of course, be cost-neutral in relation to the fact that they would otherwise have to go to Sønderborg, as Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen has pointed out to the Minister. There is, of course, a distinction in the proposal which we are helping to put forward, because it expressly states that it must be offered at the universities of a Danish university from the same border region. This means that it cannot suddenly become a race between all other universities to try to get their position south of the border. It is only SDU. So I think it is wrong to prevent SDU from offering Danish courses at the University of Flensburg. Both the Danish minority and the German majority benefit from a Danish-German influence and an intensification of cultural knowledge and development in the Danish language area in Flensburg. We already have Danish lecturers abroad in Paris, Rome, London, Vienna, Seattle and elsewhere. We are glad that I myself have been in Paris at the time of my pure youth. And we have it in Kiel, too. So I think it is a good thing that SDU is able to lay the groundwork in Flensburg, and I think that then you have to revise the law so that it can be intercepted. We are capable of that. Look at all the laws we sit and review every single day. Well, we're gonna press and press the button to pass small audits, so I guess this could be done too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150516	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Finally, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, the rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150527	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the actually very clear statements that have been made in relation to the desire to strengthen cross-border work. For as Per Stig Møller and I among others. writing in the comments on the proposal, it is a great deal about strengthening the vision and insight that it can provide for cooperation across the national border. And this can contribute to the development of border regions and thus make it more attractive to operate in those areas. So thank you for the very clear commitment that we should look at where it is at all, we can strengthen the possibilities for things to be done across the border. There was still some scepticism among the Minister and a number of rapporteurs as to whether this should now be possible. And I have to say to Mrs Merete Riisager that it is very clear from the correspondence I have had with the Minister through questions and answers that, as the university law has been tightened up today, the teaching offered by SDU in Flensburg could not be financed, so it has simply been necessary to take the students and now give them the lessons in Sønderborg. That is also why the economy has not been made any more out of it, because instead of financing it in Flensburg, it is being financed today in Sønderborg. However, I would like to welcome the fact that, despite the reference several times to these ten-year-old rules, the Minister is prepared to look at what can be done to make it more flexible, how to respond to the desire to make some slightly different offers than those they may have just been used to in the area, precisely in recognition that more can now be done and that we will have a different kind of interaction with each other. And that's why we have to be willing to rethink how we've screwed the rules together. The Minister said that she would look at new and other ways, and I hope that it will then be possible to find a solution, among other things. In relation to this specific example, where SDU has had to move their teaching. And I very much hope that the Minister will follow up and give feedback to us rapporteurs on the discussions that are taking place and the work that is being done in the Ministry on what are some new and other ways, i.e. how to link models together. I hope we will hear from the Minister there before too long. For what is really important in relation to all the positive statements about strengthening cross-border cooperation and precisely, as the Minister refers to, the recently signed ministerial declaration, which has been committed to a strengthened dialogue, is that some solutions are also being found, that some concrete steps are being taken in the right direction and show the people in the region that we are also serious about this and that we are getting things done. I would like to say, in relation to Mr Thulesen's speech, that I would also be able to live with some sort of derogation. The minister was a little skeptical about how attractive it would be if we now changed the university law and that it might be very popular offer • I even think the minister said "so if a waiver is what can make us open up and then slowly take some steps in that direction and gain some experience, then it's fine with me too. What is absolutely crucial is that we do not slow down new initiatives, that we do not hinder development in the border region which could make it more attractive, but that we are just willing to look freshly at how we can bring things together so that new things can be done. I also think that Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen gave very clear support to the intentions of the proposal and called for a solution to be found. And if the debate on this motion for a resolution can make it possible to find a solution in some way, then it will be satisfactory. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150942	A brief remark from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519150947	Thank you. After all, we are all going to sign each other, so I shall just do so, because the positive feedback from the rapporteur of the Left. But we have now tabled a motion for a resolution which we have then indicated we will vote against. We have, in fact, also been given a little light in this debate on what kind of knots are there, among other things. in relation to the economy today. 1: What are the economic consequences of this proposal? We may still be missing some light on that. And 2: In relation to the geographical demarcation. The Conservative rapporteur made a few points about whether or not it should be universities in the border country. But now there is the fact that several Danish universities are teaching in the near border area, for example. in Esbjerg, I have known both Aalborg and Aarhus University. So this demarcation is not just such a snap with the scheme that has now been affected by the SDU. Couldn't we get a few answers to the two questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151052	Indeed, in relation to the economy, which I have mentioned several times, there is no difference as such in relation to providing teaching in Flensburg and in Sønderborg, besides the fact that SDU has actually compensated by paying for the transport between Flensburg and Sønderborg, so in this way it has in fact been a greater expense for SDU. I don't know, I don't know the math. But the principle is that you can offer this teaching, a little independent of whether it is just going on on Danish soil or not. And then I think it is very clear in the wording of the resolution that we are talking about making it possible for Danish universities, and I quote: in border regions, to finance the supply of Danish university subjects at the universities of neighbouring countries, which are located in border areas to Denmark. It is in my world immediately Germany and Sweden. I am aware that there is also, for example, a problem. in relation to the offer in Malmö has been problems precisely in relation to this legislation. So that is where I think it would be obvious to look at the possibilities of strengthening cooperation in the border region, but I want to be open to hearing what is at the heart of the Socialists and what considerations are being considered there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151215	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151236	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151257	Thank you. The proposers justify this proposal by saying that what they call the green harvester is popularly known as the re-priority contribution, because the education and training in higher education are required to deliver 2% each year. of their grants. I think that is how it is formulated. In practice, the proposers say, it is not possible to find savings year after year. I should just like to make it clear that I have to understand the proposal that the proposers are of the opinion that there is an annual saving of 2% in grants from education and training institutions. But that is not correct. In other words, I am very concerned that there are no savings in educational establishments. It is important that they have stable funding conditions so that planning has a longer horizon and thus can support quality. The government has just emphasized this by maintaining a three-year budget horizon for all higher education, and we have done so throughout the period of government. In the field of education, the practice is that the re-prioritisation contribution is not part of the general priority but remains in the regions of the region. In concrete terms, this means that education and training are excluded from the annual efficiency requirement of 2%. in that the conversion contribution from both educational institutions and educational institutions on my own territory is placed in conversion reserves under the two ministries, and from this they are then translated into the institutions. This can be done both through tariffs or through special grants to priority areas. At the same time, the conversion contribution ensures that some of the subsidies granted by the State to educational and training institutions are explicitly prioritised. And without the re-priority contribution, there would only be a continuation of the 'historical level of appropriations without any comment on the current challenges we face. However, this government has returned the re-priority contribution fully to the areas that have contributed. With the Finance Bill proposals from the beginning, 2012-2015, we have returned the re-priority contribution from both the education and research appropriations and the teaching appropriations, i.e. what lies in section 19 and section 20 respectively of the Finance Act. So no savings have been made. There is already a specific practice in the field of education which ensures that the re-priority contribution remains in this area and therefore does not lead to reductions in grants. And that's why, of course, I and the government can't... it was probably pretty obvious... not joining us with B 151.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151641	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151648	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. It is not so important for the Enhedslisten whether the Minister calls it a 2-percent saving, a green harvester, a conversion reserve or a re-priority contribution, I think the Minister was told. What matters to us is whether this is a good way of making an education economy, and we obviously do not think it is in the Enhedslisten, otherwise we would not have made this proposal. My question to the Minister is: is it not correct to understand that in universities there is a 2% saving? on the taximeter scheme annually, and that a share of this money will be transferred into a completion bonus according to the minister's own drive reform, but which universities might be able to get a share in 2020? I would therefore say that the consequence is that universities will then have less money on their taximeters by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151748	It is quite true that there is a re-priority, and I fully agree that Enhedslisten does not care what we call it, because I am in fact also happy to be on target for any name. What a broad majority has voted for is that we give priority to some of the funds on which we then label some of the funds, and we have done so with this finalisation bonus, which is right for the universities to get back part of the funds if they meet the requirements of a broad conciliation group. That is absolutely right, but it is just not true that it is money that has been saved from the sector, because they will be repaid if you meet the requirements that we have agreed in a broad conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151837	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151840	If Enhedslisten's reading of this is correct and the minister has just confirmed that it is also true that the universities are currently experiencing less money per year. students. So let us not call it a saving, let us not call it a cut, but call it a re-priority. It doesn't matter to me. But universities experience that they have less money per year. students this year, than they had three years ago, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151908	What is important for universities is that they can budget and have funds. After all, money comes with every new student who comes every year, so they have actually received more money year by year, because they have also received more students. Then it is true that we have prioritised 2%. of it, and a small part of it, that's not all, is for the completion bonus, which you can just plan for. If you can meet those objectives, you can also budget for it. Therefore, I do not think it can be said that universities have just received less money. They can budget after achieving those objectives and thus also have the same. By the way, they have been given more money year by year because we have given priority to the fact that the money follows every new head of the university.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519151952	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Education and Research. Then it is the first in the rapporteur's line, Mrs Tina Nedergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152008	Thank you. After a number of years in here, I cannot help noticing that there is a certain overlap in the kind of argument used by former VK ministers, including the President and myself, in similar debates as the current minister does. It is, of course, because, fortunately, we are a broad majority in this House who are deeply responsible for the overall finances, and I think from the Left that I would like to sign that, with a common budget law, we have also ensured, although it may be tempting, that we can kick-start some things, that we will then stay within the framework. With this proposal, the Enhedslisten proposes that the Danish Parliament should set limits on the priorities for future governments in the finance laws for several years to come. It is, of course, an innovation in itself which may at best seem rather superfluous, since any majority in the Folketing can, in any case, adopt something quite different. On the other hand, it can be said that we have made the budget law, which binds the Folketing within a framework of how wild we can behave in financial law policy, but this is, of course, due to the EU convergence requirements that we must meet in order to deal with a possible economic collapse in Europe as such, but also to a great extent in our own economy. The Enhedslisten specifically proposes that the Folketing remove the so-called green harvester, an expression that everyone can understand, and that is why I would like to use it in the field of education, research and education, that is. As I have said, we do not believe that it is a matter of binding the Folketing on legislation which obliges us in relation to the Finance Laws. The Danish economy tends to fluctuate, sudden changes can happen, and any government that is responsible must also be able to put forward a financial bill with the priorities that that government now has of politics. That is why we are going to the polls, so that we can vote for those with whom we most agree. Then you can ask yourself the question: why is Enhedslisten actually making this proposal in the Folketing now? After all, you are a Finance Act, you could ask for the green harvester to be removed when you made the Finance Act. We may have tried to do so, but at least we have not succeeded in doing so. So you can say, well, then why else at this time of a parliamentary year? It serves only one purpose, and it is to illustrate to the public what Enhedslisten has of good ambition in the field of research, education and education. See, the mechanics we've seen before from Enhedslisten's side, and I have no doubt that when we go to the election campaign in a very short time it may be a little longer than some of us had hoped for, then we will hear the Enhedslisten for the young students, the young high school students say: We have in the Parliament hall suggested that we remove the annual 2-percent savings, re-priority, pool, or whatever else you might call it, but the other parties in parliament wouldn't be involved in that. In this way there are many things that are still away very safe in Danish politics. We are those who take economic policy very seriously, feel that the path we must take is to create more jobs, to ensure that the public sector does not grow beyond what it has already done, and thus is the world's largest, and that instead we have to invest in growth in the private sector. Of course, we will not renounce using a possible blue majority after the next parliamentary elections to implement the priorities that we consider to be most important for Danish society, and that is why we in the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152347	Mrs Rosa Lund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152350	Thank you. I don't need to know when the election will come. All I have to do is reassure Mrs Tina Nedergaard that we have always been opposed to this. In fact, we have been opposed to this mechanism ever since the VKO majority introduced it in 2010 in the recovery package, so that Mrs Tina Nedergaard can take it very calmly. We've always been against this mechanism. Mrs Tina Nedergaard is quite right in saying that any majority in the House can decide to change things. That is precisely why we are making this proposal. We did not succeed in the financial law negotiations, but we could succeed now. After all, we could be in the fortunate position of having realised to the Left that this is a very untenable way of making an education economy. Unfortunately, that is not the case, I understand from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152446	Nor is it customary for the Enhedslisten to make any proposals for funding within the framework laid down by the Budget Act for the Danish economy. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152459	Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152507	Thank you. I think there's been a little campaign in it, too. The Enhedslisten proposes here that we should abolish the annual 2-percent savings. I would therefore like to thank the Enhedslisten for pointing out once again that in this way we have a government which gives priority to education and that, as the Minister has already explained, these funds are put back into the system. We have been through a number of financial laws that have been difficult, and I am glad that the Enhedslisten has been involved in negotiating and voting for three out of four of them and has therefore also voted in favour of the principles laid down in the financial laws. No one is under any illusion that we have more money. But if we had them, we could use them too. In this way, we have given priority to education and research, because we believe that this is important and absolutely essential. That is also why the money has been brought back into the system, and that is why we cannot, of course, support this proposal, which goes against the financial laws which Enhedslisten himself has supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152622	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152625	Sometimes you have to vote in favour of something that you may not entirely agree with, because it is part of a larger agreement. I think so, sir. Jeppe Bruus' party knows better than anyone else. I know there's no election. I know that we are not in the middle of an election right now, and I think it would be appropriate for the Social Democrats' rapporteur to deal with the proposal rather than with the position of Enhedslisten in the forthcoming election campaign. My question to Mr. Jeppe Bruus is: Does the Social Democrats think that this is a sensible way to make an education economy, i.e. by moving 2% each year. Of the meter?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152704	I think it is very sensible and it does not matter who you are to look at how we can create a well-run public sector. I also believe that it is sensible for us to leave the money in the system as we have done, thus giving priority to education and research at a high level. With all due respect, I just do not recall that this was one of the things that Enhedslisten had as the main requirements in the financial law negotiations. But maybe I'm wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152734	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152736	Now, I'm not gonna stand here and report from negotiations, but sir. Jeppe Bruus can go back to all the articles in both Dagbladet Information and Politiken and see how Enhedslisten's attitude to the green harvesting method or the re-priority contribution was in the autumn, and we have not changed our attitude about this. We believe that this is an unsustainable way of financing training, and that is why we are proposing to change the mechanism. I understand that the Socialists think this is a fine way of financing education, in other words by giving the institutions a taximeter and then taking 2%. So we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152820	Yeah, we disagree about the last thing about taking 2%. That's not what we're doing. I am not under any illusion that I am going to convince Mrs Rosa Lund here, but that is simply not right. We leave the money in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152836	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519152854	Thank you. When I saw this motion for a resolution, I thought: why is it coming now? Why does the Enhedslisten come up with such a proposal, which, as far as I am concerned, is a purely financial matter. It is about the way in which funds are now given priority. The overall priority is in the context of the Finance Act. The Finance Act has Enhedslisten voted for three out of the last four times. If it had been a cardinal point for the Enhedslisten, I assume that it had been included, otherwise we would have voted against it. I see nothing more in this draft law than to disclaim an opportunity to make that priority of what one considers to be necessary investments and necessary priorities of the funds, in the context of the Finance Act. Of course, no one here will. That would be ridiculous. What you do with this is you say that we have a certain framework. Then we'll go in and discuss how to use them. You can choose to put them back again. It would be really, really nice if we had a lot more money. I would really like to find a lot more money for education, for higher education, for research, so that we did not have to give priority to what we have, but could prioritise additional funds. That would be great. I'd like to do that. If you can find them, we'd love to be a part of it. That's why I'm thinking this discussion is gonna be so misplaced. What I can look forward to is that soon, at a broader level, we will be discussing the taximeter system, discussing the whole funding of education. And it is clear that, in this context, it would be obvious to discuss how to create the opportunities to make priorities, while also ensuring stable budgets over time for educational institutions and research institutions, because of course it is essential that they know what they are dealing with in large measure. This is also the case with the budgeting and the financial laws that have been in recent years. That's what we're gonna say. That is why we are looking forward to those discussions. However, I would prefer to refer to the next budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153118	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153122	It's funny, as it is the time of this proposal that doesn't suit the other parties. But my question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is this: if the money is still in the field of education, is it not a question of finding some more money or some new money, then it is a question of this mechanism, so if the money is still in the area, does not the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party have confidence that the educational institutions themselves can find a way of re-prioritising their budgets? When the Danish People's Party has on several occasions voted that the educational institutions in Denmark are self-serving, it is probably because they are confident that they can manage their own economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153210	Well, we have a lot of faith in the educational institutions. We also have a wish that when we discuss finance law and priorities, we have the freedom to set the priorities that we consider right at that time. That's why I'm saying this isn't the right time. We're not discussing Finance Day. This is one of those individual questions where you want to take a corner out of a whole complex. It just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153234	Rosa Lund? No, thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153243	Thank you. I'll be brief. After all, this proposal is about abolishing the so-called green harvester on Article 19 and Article 20 of the Finance Act. The Radical Left cannot support this proposal because, as several other rapporteurs have already mentioned, there is already the practice in the field of education that this conversion contribution is 2%. We are returning to the field of education, so that there is really no reduction or, for that matter, a green harvester. It is a matter of re-prioritisation. We really think that it makes very good sense for priority to be given to selected areas in the overall field of education. Against this background, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153328	Mrs Rosa Lund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153332	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Liv Holm Andersen whether the institutions are seeing less money per year this year. individual students, i.e. not get any more money, because you have admitted more students, i.e. whether they are experiencing the same amount as they received last year, or whether they are experiencing less money per year. students.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153402	But I just think it's important to stick to the fact that it's the same money that stays in the system. So it is true, as we have already said in the debate, that some of these funds fall later, because that is the priority that is being given. I think that makes sense, and I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153413	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153416	I do not think Mrs Liv Holm Andersen answered my question, namely whether the institutions are experiencing less money per year. students this year, yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153428	Well, it is a little more complex than that, because it is true that some money is being taken out and then distributed back to the system. So some institutions will certainly experience it, while others will see that money falling at a later stage because, for example, priority is being given, as we have talked about, that is, this finalisation bonus. So yes and no, but the money stays in the system, and I think that's the important thing to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153455	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153502	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund for having the discussion here today. It is an old principle that we are discussing. In fact, as I have been informed, this is back to 2003. So that is an old principle, but I understand that Mrs Rosa Lund only wants to look at the principle that has to do with education, so that is what I am dealing with here. Surely we can agree that knowledge is Denmark's most important raw material, and knowledge is extracted and developed, among other things. through education. If Denmark is to remain one of the leading knowledge nations in the future, it is important that we constantly look critically at our education system, and it is crucial for the level of education and innovation capacity that it is constantly strengthened and improved. It is the finest task of the education system to create the best possible framework for individuals to exercise their potential and qualities during training and subsequently in the labour market. If we look at the course from primary to vocational, professional and university educations, I think it is also being done in the best way. We generally have a high quality and we have skilled, committed teachers and researchers. One of the things that means that we in Denmark are in the lead in relation to education is that we try to balance quality and quantity. There are some who would argue that the drive reform is more an expression of quantity rather than quality. I don't necessarily disagree. But it is important that we go in here and look at the specific problems of the progress reform, especially when it comes to the dimensioning. Of course, the problems that are here must be dealt with. So we must not only talk about economics and implementation time; we must also look at the consequences it has for the quality of education. We are in fact in the SF positive towards the intentions behind the Enhedslisten's proposal, although it has not been so violently unfolded. Nor are we in favour of making savings in general based on a green harvesting approach. But this is not money taken from the whole area either; it is a principle of how the conversion pool brings back money. It is a pity, but it is necessary, and it has been for us in Denmark to get out of the crisis, that we look at all the areas in which we work, and it is of course also in the educational institutions. However, in the SF we generally think that it should be up to the individual educational institutions how they think the savings should be implemented. One of the things that we look forward to in the SF and which I look forward to is when something concrete comes out of the work of the Quality Committee and when we specifically address and discuss basic grants, taximeter subsidies, social taximeters, etc. Our approach to this resolution from the Enhedslisten is that we do not support it. But it is simply because there is so much going on and if the Minister could succeed in bringing forward a status on how far we are with the work of the Quality Committee and how far the Minister is in thinking about a way of financing the economy of the educational institutions, then we are rather more concerned with it than with a somewhat predictable political mark. Then I also ask that, when we discuss this here, we keep remembering that education and research at home are about more than universities. So we look forward in the SF to a status on the work of the Quality Committee and the implications it has for professional academies, professional education and for university institutions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153928	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519153946	In the Liberal Alliance, in our 2025 plan, which the Ministry of Finance has been kind enough to implement, we have added 800 million. kr. • to increase research funding for universities. If you did, it would mean a net increase of 10%. This would be something that would be felt in the universities. Having said that, however, it must be said that it is also the case that it is not only the resources that enter universities that say something about how much quality is being created in universities. There are also many other factors that determine how much good teaching and research can be done in universities. It is clear, if you look at the universities, that the administrative layers have become much thicker over the past many years. They grow and grow, and we have a part of the blame for that in here at Christiansborg. Firstly, we can pay more attention to whether the way in which we allocate funds facilitates too much the fact that too many people are actually employed in the administration. Secondly, the rules we decide in here, which means that we have to meet one and the other requirements in universities, also have an impact on how many administrative layers there are. So we cannot deny responsibility for that. One of the legislative proposals we have adopted in here, which the Liberal Alliance itself has also helped to adopt, is the progress reform. And when we see the gallopers out there in the real world, we can see that it doesn't work very well, to put it mildly. We in the Liberal Alliance have recognised that the drive reform is simply a mistake. According to the reform's own calculation or the calculations made in the Ministry of Finance, the progress reform would improve public finances by more than 2 billion. kr. It is difficult to see, when you look at universities, that it is so simple, because it is a reform which is quite destructive to the work of universities and also to the everyday life of students. Universities are drowning in applications for exemptions from the law, and it turns out that it has become a bureaucratic hell, and we simply have to take that seriously. So in this way we can also spend a great deal of resources on sticking to a law that we have to say simply does not work as intended. What else can be done to give universities more freedom and thus also better use of their resources? Yes, one thing you can do is to give universities that are not self-serving the opportunity to do so. The University of Copenhagen has long wanted to become self-serving. I know that there is one application after another over with the Minister, but not so much is happening. As far as becoming self-serving is concerned, it is important that all the institutions that want it, all the universities that want it, should be able to own their own buildings and control their own resources, because in this way we will get more out of the funds. The taximeter system is a way that we regulate resources at the university and that does not always serve the purpose we would like. You have to say, when you look at, for example. The final taximeter states that it is certainly not conducive to quality if one is constantly concerned only with getting the students through. So we're gonna have to have a look at the taximeter structure as soon as another government gets here at some point. Then we need to look at the distribution of resources between universities. Because it is the case that some universities get more than others. I always wonder, when I look at CBS, which is a highly recognised university, that the resources that flow to them are so low compared to many of the other universities. We should change that too. So in the Liberal Alliance we would like to discuss resources for universities, incentives, bureaucracy, self-determination, freedom, responsibility, etc. But we have a completely different starting point from what Enhedslisten has.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154424	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154437	It's such a really real hoofsa proposal before closing time. Well, Enhedslisten is the government's support party. Without the Enhedslisten, the government didn't sit at all, and then we had another Finance Act. So either you say, "Whoops, we forgot this when we negotiated Finance Act for 2015. Then it's a little late to wake up and bring it up. Or it is such an untimely start to the financial law negotiations, where they say: we shall have that in 2016. But then it's too soon. And if you want to be the government's support party in the 2016 Finance Act, you're gonna have to take it up with the government during the negotiations. So it is a proposal that says: why in the world do we get it now? That doesn't really make any sense. We have also heard the Minister's reply. It has been incredibly clear that the proposers have not been properly dressed at all, yet the Folketing is bothering. After all, money remains within the system through the re-prioritisation and we are in favour of re-prioritisation. There is nothing that can work without re-prioritising. I myself, as Minister, have made re-priority pools, and that is to promote the quality and dynamics of a system. We have no objection to making the money more efficient and making it so efficient that it remains in the system. So it's wrong too. We are very concerned about the quality of education and research. That is clear, because that is what we must live on in the future. It is very important that we continue to be at the forefront. I heard here this morning that we're number one. 7 in the OECD with the development of knowledge, but we can of course come up and become number one. That is why we propose to the government that in the 2020 plan, research appropriations should be set at around 1%, just over 1%. So we say, let's get up to 1.25 per cent. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take a look at the work done by the Commission on this matter. After all, it is important that we get as good education as possible, and we will also work on that when the elections are over and we have to make our own financial law. There we will work to strengthen research and education. But this proposal from the Enhedslisten is, in fact, an untimely and a bit of a blow to the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154642	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154647	In other words, if you have listened to what the previous rapporteurs have said, I do not think this is very easy for the Enhedslisten. This is not a husa proposal either, I just want to make it clear. The Conservative rapporteur says one thing that interests me very much, namely that of quality, and then I just want to know whether the Conservative People's Party sees it as a 2% priority. the taximeter money of the educational institutions, as something that promotes quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154723	I think that Mrs Rosa Lund has received many answers to what has been quite excellent today. I'll give you one, too. The Liberal Alliance gave an answer to that. Well, the completion taximeter I don't think promotes quality. It is a question of getting as many people as possible through as quickly as possible, so that more people can get in and get them out. And then you can raise some money at box one. We are willing to look at that, and I would like to say that there are also new priorities in this area. So you should not just say as the old and reactionaries that it should be as it was and be as it is. We are in favour of changing to preserve, and we maintain the quality of sometimes changing methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154758	Rosa Lund? Per Stig Møller (KF): No. I'm off duty). Then the Conservative rapporteur is finished on the platform. Finally, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519154826	Thank you. And thank you for this debate, which has been surprisingly much about an election campaign, even though our resolution is about something quite different from the election campaign. We have tabled this motion for a resolution in the Enhedslisten because we think it is inappropriate that every year funds should be cut, re-priorityd, moved, and it does not really matter to us what we call it, but we think it is inappropriate that 2% should be removed. of the taximeter of the educational institutions. We can only ensure quality in Danish education if the institutions have sufficient resources. Our view in the Enhedslisten is that this green harvester right now is holding the economy at the educational institutions because they have to spend the two per cent each year. of their grants. The institutions are expected to continue to deliver the same quality each year for ever less money. Because the money is being redirected, the money is being moved from the meter, but yet we expect it to deliver exactly the same quality. That is why we believe that the green harvester should be removed so that the educational institutions are provided with the funds that we decide through the taximeter system to give them. The green harvester makes it very opaque as to where the money for education is spent. There is no guarantee that the money will go back to the specific institutions where it has been moved from the meter. We have had an exciting discussion here today about whether they stay in the education sector or whether they do not. One thing is that they remain in the education sector. Another thing is that there is no guarantee that the institution which sits and has to plan a budget and has to plan the teaching and has to plan a proper study environment will get exactly that money back. So we believe that this is an untenable method. We also believe that the consequences of this re-prioritisation can be felt by students, students and teachers alike. Savings, conversion, re-prioritisation, if you like, means now more teams, less education, less feedback and a worse framework for our training situations. Especially for universities, the consequence of this model is that an increasing share of funds is channelled into the completion bonus, which I have fortunately heard today we are many who think is a bad way of doing things, but the money is channelled over here, and the educational institutions cannot count on them as easily, because all the parties in this Parliament, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, have made a progress reform which means that universities are not sure about getting this money back by 2020. They will only get them back if they get their students through more quickly, and precisely the money that lands there, there is no guarantee that they will stay in the field of education. We think that in Enhedslisten is really, really stupid. Then it is quite right that more students have been admitted. We think that in the Enhedslisten is a good thing. But let us keep our tongues straight in our mouths: Pr. So students don't spend any more money on this government. It is true that you are funding the students you are recording, which you can say the government should also be praised for, if you look at the government that was before the current government, but I would not call it massive investment or investment in education that you are financing the students you are recording. I guess it's somehow the least you can do. Finally, I would just like to say: yes, it is true that Enhedslisten has made a financial agreement with the government. We have done so several times. And in the financial law agreements there has been a re-priority contribution as a mechanism, and we have always found this a bad way to make an education economy. That is why this proposal is precisely about removing that mechanism from the Finance Act. It is true, then, that any majority in parliament can decide what a majority in parliament will decide, and our call is, of course, that the majority decides to make an education economy in a different way than we do today. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155305	Thank you. There is indeed a brief comment from Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155312	Yes, it must also be very brief. I just need the rapporteur to confirm one thing, and this is about the research area, where all four red parties in 2011 went to the polls and agreed that the recovery package should be rolled back, which the VKO had created with full responsibility for the Danish economy, and, incidentally, also created a welfare that the red majority can then go and share out of now. I just want to say: is it true that the Enhedslisten voted in favour of the Finance Act that came into force for 2012, which meant that in 2012 fewer crowns were spent on public research than they did when the VKO majority was responsible for the Finance Act for 2011, that is to say, when it joined, the red majority reduced the public research crowns, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155358	It is absolutely true that Enhedslisten was part of the Finance Act which was behind the Finance Act for 2012. It is also quite true that all the red parties went to the polls to roll back the recovery package's savings. It was also a proposal we made in the Enhedslisten when we negotiated Finance Act. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority in favour of this and I can reassure Mrs Tina Nedergaard that we in the Enhedslist still believe that the recovery package should be rolled back.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155425	Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155427	Yes, yes, but now the Enhedslisten has spent an hour here to beat other parties their views on both one and the other for many years to come. We are faced with a parliamentary election; if only, then at least some colleagues will be replaced, including perhaps oneself. That is why I think it is interesting to ask a question. Is it not true, then, that where Enhedslisten actually had power, where Enhedslisten had actually been able to influence the decisions, i.e. in November-December 2011, the Enhedslisten voted in favour of a Finance Act which reduced the number of public tax dollars that went to research? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155505	Yes, it is true that the Enhedslisten voted in favour of the 2012 Finance Bill, which was made in November-December 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155512	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155527	I give the floor to the Minister for Food first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519155546	Thank you. Today, we are dealing first with a resolution on the obligation to notify when animal neglect is observed. The proposal requires the government to introduce an obligation to inform public servants who observe the obvious neglect of animals. The reason for the proposal is that, according to the proposers, there are regular cases where people have had so many dogs and cats or other animals that they have not been able to understand the situation and that it has then developed into neglect. Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the purpose of the resolution. I also believe that we must do what we can to avoid situations such as those described by the proposers. Animals must not suffer unnecessarily. In this context, the proposers refer to Section 153 of the Services Act, which provides for an increased notification obligation for public employees who, as part of the service or profession, become aware that children or young people have been subjected to abuse or need special support. The proposers propose the introduction of a similar notification obligation for public servants who observe obvious animal neglect. However, the resolution raises a number of questions which will need to be clarified before a decision can be taken on whether and how to introduce an obligation to inform public servants who observe such obvious neglect of animals. The provisions of the Service Act on an enhanced notification obligation for public servants cannot be automatically transferred in the field of animal welfare in order to apply to all public servants who become aware of the neglect of animals. The enhanced notification obligation of the Service Act is particularly targeted at professionals such as: school teachers, educators, health care workers and hospital staff, i.e. persons who have a particular knowledge and need to be able to assess issues related to children and young people's development and health. Municipal staff, e.g. domestic care will not, as a general rule, have equivalent conditions for assessing animal health and welfare conditions. There will clearly be cases in which it must be obvious to everyone that an animal is abused or subjected to serious neglect, but in other cases it may be difficult for persons without the necessary professional background to assess whether the treatment of animals is more serious or less serious. There may also be situations where an animal has been ill or injured but the animal has been taken under proper care. This raises another question in relation to the motion for a resolution, namely which infringements of the Animal Protection Act would trigger a notification obligation. In the case of infringements of the Animal Protection Act, it is assessed whether an animal has been subjected to significant disadvantage, reckless treatment, grosser reckless treatment or abuse. Pursuant to Section 20 of the Animal Protection Act, veterinary surgeons are required to notify if it is found that an animal is being treated grossly recklessly or if it is maltreatment. The obligation to register is the responsibility of authorised veterinarians only, and the reason for this is that, under the veterinary law, special obligations are imposed upon them as a result of the authorisation. Unlike veterinary surgeons, most public servants do not have a veterinary background which can also justify a special duty to deal with situations where animals have been treated indefensiblely and therefore it seems far-reaching to impose a similar obligation on others. The motion for a resolution raises a number of other questions which will need to be clarified. In particular, it should: the person to whom the proposed notification obligation is to apply shall be defined. Consideration should be given to whether it is appropriate to impose a notification obligation on all public servants or whether the obligation should only be imposed on certain groups of public servants, i.e.: persons with special functions enabling them to have access to private homes in the course of their work. It will also need to be clarified to what extent the notification obligation should apply to private persons such as: is employed by private suppliers of home care. In addition, it must be clarified in which law or laws it would be appropriate to introduce any requirement of notification or notification for public servants who, in the course of their duties or duties, become aware of matters relating, inter alia, to: gross neglect of animals. I would therefore suggest that an inter-ministerial working group should be set up to examine the consequences and possibilities of a possible obligation to inform public employees about breaches of the Animal Protection Act. The working party will have to look into the outstanding issues which I have just highlighted. The Ministry of Food will be in charge of such an investigation, and in addition, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior will be able to contribute to the clarification work. As the motion for a resolution raises a number of issues which require clarification, the government cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it now stands. However, as I started by saying, it is important that we do what we can to ensure that animals suffering receive the help that is needed. I would therefore like to give priority to the setting up of that working group to examine the consequences and possibilities of introducing, where appropriate, an obligation to notify public servants in order to clarify them by 2015. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160130	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160140	Thank you, sir. President. I would just like to start by thanking the Minister for Food. Here, relatively close to a parliamentary election, there is often a lot of controversy and mud throwing in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I think it was actually a very sober speech. I fully understand that there are a number of boundaries that need to be made before this can turn into a bill and something that you can put into practice, so I'm just going to sign off on the fact that you're going to look at it after all and that you're going to do something about this. Then I would like to know whether the Minister has any information at this stage on what the timeframe is and whether the Minister, perhaps in cooperation with the proposers, will have a definition of what is to be looked at in terms of inter-ministeriality. I would, of course, be very interested in the fact that you are sure that you will get it done properly before you start the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160222	We aim to work as quickly as possible and, as such, we expect this work to be completed by the end of this year, and of course I am very happy to listen to input from the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160237	Thank you to the Minister for Food. There are no more questions, and then we move on to the rapporteur's line. The first is sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160254	Thank you. In the context of the examination of motion for a resolution B 161 on the obligation to inform when animal neglect is observed, which has been tabled by the Danish People's Party, I can say that the Left will vote against the proposal as it stands at present. Now we understand that the Minister of Food is proposing a working group to look at parts of it, and that is fine enough and to get an analysis of whether it can find a new figure. But as it stands now, the Left is voting against it. And then we will see what comes out of a possible working group. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes the introduction before the end of the current calendar year of notification obligations for public employees who observe animal neglect. The reason for the proposal is that there have been cases where people have kept animals in such a way that they have become neglectful. In the Left, we believe that in several ways it may prove problematic to require public employees to notify the neglect of animals. This would increase the burden on the municipalities and risk removing focus from their core tasks. In other words, we do not believe that it should be part of the task of public servants to examine the conditions of possible animals when they are on home visits. Instead, the focus should be on the citizen who needs help. It may also be questioned whether public servants are trained to assess animal welfare cases and to take a position on them. It does not necessarily fall within their sphere of competence. But now we understand that the Minister for Food is proposing a working group, and it is probably also to look at some of these things. So we're waiting to hear what might come of it. So on this basis, as I have already indicated, the Left will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160446	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160448	I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if he is aware that this motion for a resolution states precisely that these are the cases where there is obvious neglect of animals. And the reason why these are the very cases where it is obvious, that is, where you can see that dogs are covered in their own feces, is precisely that I am well aware that a home helper, for example. is not trained to assess whether a dog is being neglected, or can see if it is getting enough to eat, or other things. These, of course, must be the cases where it is really bad. Because, as I heard the rapporteur's speech, it was not taken into account. Of course, it is not possible to send all public employees who are in our municipalities and regions on a course in this. I understand that it's costly. But now that you are looking at and helping a citizen in some situation, and you can see that there are 146 birds in a one-bedroom apartment, or that there are 100 cats walking around in a house in their own excrement, are there not such obvious cases that, as a public servant, you may well know that there should be action here, both for the sake of the animal, but also for the sake of the owner who does not necessarily do so, but many times just has a problem that has grown the person over his head?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160555	In such extreme situations, as the questioner has just explained, it could also be obvious that one might simply be informed of oneself whether or not there was anything to be looked at here. I think this may be the case in several situations in the practical everyday life, but then from there and to impose, as the Minister has just said, there is some way to go. At least there are some things that need to be looked at first. It is clear that animals should not suffer, of course, and so did the Minister. We all agree on that. So that's the dilemma, where's the limit in this? But now there is something that might suggest that there will be a working group, and then we will see what it finds out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160630	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160632	As the second follow-up question, I would just like to ask whether the Left really supports the setting up of such an inter-ministerial working group, because we will vote against the proposal. But the reason why I am interested is that if there were to be a parliamentary election, where power might change to a future Left Government, and we do not yet know that until we have had an election, will the Left stop such a group, or will it be supported that it continues so that we can have a proper basis for making a real decision as to whether this is the way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160701	Well, I was quite precise, I think, at least in replying that, as the proposal is currently from the authors of the motion, we cannot vote in favour of it. Then a working group comes in on it now, and no one can object to it. I can't imagine. At least we have not, and I have no objection to that, so there is a working group that looks at it and analyses the points that have been made, and then we have to see what comes out of a working group, and then we have to deal with it when it is available. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160725	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519160731	Thank you. Animals must be treated properly. It's as simple as that. We Socialists have said this many times before, and we are happy to say it again. We have also shown that we put action behind words, because for the government it has been a priority from day one to ensure good conditions for animals in Denmark. The results achieved and achieved show this too. We have ensured better conditions for mink, chickens and cattle, and when we ensured that the Danish lakes could be released for the vast majority of their lives, the Animal Protection termed it the greatest progress for animal welfare for many years. In other words, there are results that speak their clear language about whether or not the government cares about the welfare of animals and does something to improve their conditions. On the socialist side, we welcome the intention behind the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party, namely to help animals who are subjected to neglect by their owners. I therefore agree with the authors of the motion that animal neglect is unacceptable and very serious. Animals are our responsibility and it is important that we are aware of our responsibility. We must, of course, do everything we can to put an end to those people who are not looking after their animals properly. Animals are the weak party subject to the conditions we are setting up, and therefore the debate is also quite relevant. Having said that, we in the Socialist Group do not believe that the solution is to introduce an obligation to inform public servants who observe the neglect of animals, as the proposers want. I very much agree with the Minister that the Danish People's Party's proposal raises a number of unresolved questions, for example how should all municipal employees have the prerequisites for properly assessing animal health and welfare conditions. Today, the obligation to notify is limited to authorised veterinary surgeons precisely because it is certain that they have the tools to properly assess whether this is an abuse. Will it then be possible to prosecute, for example, a SOSU assistant who has been on home visits and neglected neglect, even if he does not have the slightest knowledge of animal health and welfare? However, I can see some problems in why it is very gratifying that the Minister's initiative with an inter-ministerial working group is being put forward here today, and I very much welcome that. This will allow us to clarify some of the many issues raised by this motion for a resolution, so that we know what it is we are going for and what it is that citizens have to live up to. It is clear that the Socialists want to stop animal neglect. However, in view of the many outstanding questions to which the motion for a resolution does not provide an answer, we cannot support the proposal. However, we support the Minister's proposals for an inter-ministerial working group and look forward to further clarification of the idea. The Socialists cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161045	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161047	I noticed that one of Mr. Orla Hav's arguments for rejecting it were that one could not impose, among other things. a home helper to assess whether in a case there had been obvious neglect of some animals. But if you take the three cases mentioned in the motion for a resolution as a starting point, which I have received from the Animal Protection Agency, then you can see that there is, among other things, one of them. is an example of a one - bedroom apartment with 146 birds in it. There is another case where you have come out to a residence where there are 14 dogs that simply walk around in their own feces, and it ends up with more of them being killed. In such a case, does the rapporteur think that there is a need for one or another training or specialist knowledge to be able to see that in this case there is obvious neglect? Does the rapporteur not think that it would be better to put an end to this situation earlier, if we are still in contact with these citizens, instead of waiting until things go badly wrong, which we recently saw in the case of the 91 dogs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161141	Contrary to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, we also have a recognition that the world is far, far more diverse than the three examples referred to, because these are obvious examples to which everyone can relate. However, in all the intermediate forms, all the examples in which a SOSU assistant might get into trouble by overlooking the fact that there is an animal exposed to neglect, it is serious that you can get into court if that is how you have overlooked it. At the same time, you also have to do your job of caring for a citizen, which is the main reason why you come to the home. I recognise that it is beautiful to look after the animals we have in our immediate environment, but the question of whether we can legislate on how people should act on all sides of the world is not therefore clarified by the proposal that has been put forward here today. That is why we cannot support the proposal, but we are fully in favour of the Minister allowing some people to bury it here so that the citizens have a proper basis to act on in relation to the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161251	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161253	I now find it difficult to see that it should be difficult to overlook a municipal employee if you get out of a place where they literally go in stool to the ankles, or you get to a place where, as in one case, there are so many birds that you almost have to wear a gas mask before you go in. Well, it's pretty hard to miss. Then perhaps we should consider whether there could be any other problems with the public employee concerned. The animals' protection has also ruled on this matter and has said in the media that they get between 15 and 20 inquiries a year from anonymous employees from the municipalities, because the employees simply cannot have it on their conscience when they go home, that they have experienced that there are some animals that are grossly neglected, but that they must not do anything about it. It's just to mention that there are some good arguments for looking at this area. I can also understand that the Minister is taking a look at it, but I think, at least, that if you have had a hold of these citizens, who are often struggling with other things, apart from the fact that they cannot find a way of caring for their animals, then it is obvious that this is one of the initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161351	I just have to say again that we do not believe that the world is as black and white as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party puts it. I recognise that if we are dealing with cases as obvious as the three examples set out in the motion for a resolution, we can say that we are dealing with some citizens who need help in other ways. Then it is perhaps the best interests of the citizens that we must first take care of by going in and saying: here, then, some citizens are in a situation which they cannot understand and which has taken power away from them, and therefore, of course, they must have a helping hand. However, it is absolutely crucial that we have clarified the legal basis on which we allow local government staff to work in the citizens' homes. They need to know what they have to comply with, and they need to be given the prerequisites for assessing the specific situations. It is not enough to say that this is obvious. I believe that any court or, at least, anyone who has to take a case on it will have it rejected as having such a loose basis to work on. So it is a question of getting a proper and solid basis, and that is where we very much welcome the Minister's initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161502	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, SF. No, it's the Radical Left. ) Sorry, sorry, sorry. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left. It was the sins of the past that came to my mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161508	It's okay. Sir. Bent Bøgsted is not the only President who has come to do so. Some have done it a few times, but this time it was only once, so it is forgiven. As far as the resolution is concerned, I think it is actually a very interesting discussion that we have. In fact, we agree once again with the intention that animals that are in your care should be properly cared for, and I also believe that you have a moral obligation to react if you see that there are animals that are suffering very, very serious harm and are being neglected, and you can do so today. After all, it is important to have an opportunity to report these things, and it may well be that one of the answers could be to say: can we help public employees to become better aware of how they can report some of these things? But to make it a duty for all public servants and perhaps to go so far as to even put them in prison if they do not report the neglect of animals, I simply think is going very, very far. I would also say that it takes certain prerequisites to be able to see how an animal feels; if you do not necessarily have animals yourself, it may well be that it is difficult for a public servant to • now we talked about the SOSU assistant earlier to see whether animals are directly neglected. I must say, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, that it is clear that the examples described here are very violent. It would also be such a place where I would think that, as a public servant, one would do just as much of one's civic duty by ensuring that both the person who lives there and the animals get some help, because it is probably not people who have the situation completely under control who appear to be dealing with the animals in this way. The Minister has chosen to set up a working group to examine this issue further, and I think that is a good thing. Then we can have the discussion again. At this stage, however, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161714	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161716	First of all, I would like to thank the radical rapporteur for supporting intention and for supporting the inter-ministerial working group. After all, I think that is positive, because then the discussion is moved something so that it is not just a debate in this Chamber. However, one of the things I was stunned about was that the radical rapporteur and also the previous rapporteur said that one was not in favour of putting municipal workers in prison or that they would potentially be given a prison sentence if they were not reported. Nor have we written in the motion for a resolution that they should have, and I am a little puzzled about it, because if you look at those who commit animal cruelty and are convicted of it, then they typically get a fine, and why should you sentence those who do not report it to a prison sentence? So there is at least something there that is not proportional, and that is not something we write about in the resolution, so I would really just like to hear how the rapporteur has come to the conclusion that if you do not report as you should, you would end up in prison and that is certainly not something we have proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161807	I'd really like to explain that. It is, of course, if you draw the parallel to the Service Act, where there is a reporting obligation for public employees, and there is indeed the possibility of punishment as much as four months in prison. So it is by drawing the parallel to it that one has to say that, in the utmost consequence, it may be to have to put public servants in prison because they have not reported animal failure. I am glad to hear that this is not the intention of the Danish People's Party, but we must then ask whether it will really help with fines. Will it really help to tell public employees that they will be fined if they don't report this? Isn't it more like trying to see what it could be that was the reason why you haven't done it in this case? Is it because people haven't known where they can do it, what the possibilities are? Is this not more information to be given to some public servants than it is legislation to which everyone must be subject and which can enter all these grey areas and all these very, very difficult cases, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also pointed out?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161905	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519161922	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs who have been up here, we think that the purpose of the resolution is very sympathetic. It is clear that with the examples outlined in the comments on the proposal, you will think that any ordinary thinking person will see that it is quite, quite wrong here, and in addition to the condition in which the animals are in these descriptions, one must also think that the people who lived with the animals needed some help. That goes without saying. But once again, as the radical rapporteur said, when laws are made in other cases, we have to make them for all kinds of cases, and it may be from the very, very glaring, terrible cases, as described in the comments, to some where it may be a little harder for a person who is not a professional, who is not a veterinarian, to see whether there is a failure in relation to animals. And what would the sanction be for the SOSU assistant who can't see if this dog is just a little tired or even being misguided? So we would like to see whether we cannot reach some kind of agreement on what we can do and tighten up, because we think that the intention is quite right, and there are some terrible things out there that we hear about sometimes where animals are being mistreated in a very gross way. But again, like every time we talk about animal welfare in this Chamber, I also have to point out that the DF obviously has a great predatory for animals, which are named and which are adorable, but DF does not talk very much about our production animals. There is, of course, the example of the pigs that were mistreated, but most often the DF's motion for a resolution is aimed at pets, one might say. So I think we should also discuss what conditions our production animals are living under. Some are fine, others are in a state, for example. chickens get fattened up so much that their legs can barely carry their weight, where their feet are etched away, so I want us to also discuss broadly how we should treat animals in Denmark. But I have nothing to say at all about this yet, because I think that there are some problems that I have mentioned and which the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, namely where the border is going. Can any official be required to see exactly when an animal is not being properly treated? Then there are also the very serious sanctions, penalties that may be for that. So I think we should have a discussion in committee on how we can do better than today and see if we cannot find a common ground in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162233	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162236	I have noticed that every time the Danish People's Party makes proposals in the field of animal welfare, SF is calling for a broad debate, in particular that we take some debates on the production animals. Then it's just that I wonder why SF doesn't make any proposals. Why do we not raise a question debate on animal welfare or make some proposals to improve some of the things mentioned? I have not noticed a single proposal since the last parliamentary elections in the field of animal welfare from the SF, yet every time, it is called for. Why not take the initiative instead of criticising the Danish People's Party every time we put something on the agenda? Then you want to criticize the fact that we are not going to have the debate, but you are not doing anything yourself. Doesn't that seem a little hollow? Why do we not just call ourselves a debate in Parliament on these matters if they are so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162323	Well, we raise it in all the cases we can get to it. It is not very long ago that we made an agreement with the Minister for Food about an action plan for MRSA, one in many ways fine agreement, I think, but where we from the SF raised the problem that when piglets get weaned from their mother very, very early, they also often need more antibiotics, and therefore a suggestion could be that piglets could stay longer with the mother. So it is an integral part of all the negotiations we are entering into. And when the Minister also uses pigs that are no longer bound, as a star example of animal welfare, then that is something that I actually feel the Minister is very concerned about. So we would like to discuss animal welfare at all times, also very much in this case. I was just trying to say to the rapporteur that we think there are some problems that exist specifically here in relation to the legal certainty of each SOSU, i.e. whether in any case it is possible to assess whether it is a failure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162438	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162440	I would just like to point out here in my second brief remark that it still sounds rather hollow, that in the answer that just came you say that you lift it in all the contexts you can get to it. Now, in the almost four years we've been sitting since the last parliamentary elections, you haven't lifted it once in this forum. However, it may not be a particularly important forum for people in the Parliamentary Chamber, where Members of Parliament can come down and take part in the debate, to lift it there. I think it sounds rather hollow when you say that you actually care about it and want to lift it, when at least you do not have a debate down here where it really matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162514	As I said, I think we're lifting it where we're going. Now, I think I gave a hand to the rapporteur, but if we are going to have a rather tough debate, I would just like to ask again: if the rapporteur is so concerned about animal welfare, why did the rapporteur's party, DF, not support the Enhedslisten and SF's wish that piglets could stay longer with the mother, since we were going to discuss MRSA anyway, where animal welfare and antibiotics were an integral part of that discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162545	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162610	Thank you. The Enhedslisten agrees that we see many unfortunate examples of the mistreatment and mistreatment of animals, mainly due to the fact that people have come into a situation where they can no longer understand how to treat their animals properly. These are both pets and production animals. In these situations, it is often people from the authorities or others who are in contact with these people who know that the problems also affect the animals. Often you do nothing about it because you do not really know what to do, and perhaps you also think that it is a pity for people who already find it difficult if their animals are to be taken from them and if they also risk a punishment for the neglect of animals. One can fear that it will just make their problems even bigger. Perhaps these are the reasons behind them. Of course, it is not acceptable for animals to suffer from this and therefore action must be taken. We are therefore in favour of the intention of this motion for a resolution and are fully committed to discussing how we can ensure that there is a report and action against the maltreatment and abuse of animals. However, we are not quite sure that the right method is a copy of the rules that exist in relation to children or whether we need to find alternative methods. We would very much like to have the opportunity to discuss this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162728	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162742	Apparently, there is an obvious competition as to who is best against animals. In the Liberal Alliance, we think that animals should be very good. We are very pleased that we have an animal welfare law, but frankly I have to say that some of the proposals we sometimes meet seem to me to indicate that there is absolutely no confidence in the Danes' common sense. I simply cannot understand why it should be necessary to impose an obligation to inform when you come across what the proposers call the obvious neglect of animals. So, you get into a one-room apartment with 141 free-flying birds, I honestly think that any thinking person in this country must be able to tell himself that there are some authorities here that need to be involved. I simply cannot understand why five or six ministries should now be involved in a working group to examine whether it may be necessary to impose on public employees, possibly even private employees, possibly also family and possibly friends, that they should inform when they encounter animals that are being neglected. In other words, we live in a reasonably enlightened society, and I would say that even unenlightened people, if such ones exist, do not like to see animals suffering. I cannot understand why we in the Danish Parliament should spend time discussing such things, why we should set five or six ministries in motion, and why we no longer have confidence that our fellow citizens in this society can tell themselves that we must intervene when we encounter animals that are mistreated. So, for obvious reasons, the Liberal Alliance cannot support this proposal, but we are very good about animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Daniel Rugholm as rapporteur for the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519162948	Thank you. It is, of course, totally unacceptable to abuse animals, and it is sad both for animals and for owners, for example. elderly people are not able to care for their livestock, which in some cases suffer serious neglect, as there are examples in the proposal here. I believe that the examples mentioned in the motion for a resolution affect us all, but what is the right solution? I understand the starting point for the proposers, because many of our public servants come around widely and visit many homes in everyday life. It is therefore obvious that they are aware of different things. Others take advantage of this, for example. the police who make small postcards for home care or technical management staff, calling for attention to burglary or suspicious persons and vehicles. If they then pick up something suspicious, there are so simple steps to contact the proper authorities, in this case the police. The same could be imagined in relation to public servants' attention to suffering animals. It could, for example, be done. be the protection of the animals, which made a similar small card with information on contact with the animal's watch centre, which could then pass the matter on. I am sure that both municipalities and animals' protection could jointly find a fine solution, which could perhaps even contribute positively to the financial challenges of the guard centre. In the proposal there is just a slightly different approach to it. In fact, we want to have an obligation to inform public employees in the same way as if children were in a serious situation, but that is just something quite different. In our opinion, there are several challenges and unanswered questions in that model. Firstly, how should the staff of the municipality be trained to assess the condition of animals? Personally, I would find it difficult to see, for example, whether. A canary is good or bad. A larger animal like a dog could then be easier, but if you are not used to animals, it may be difficult to estimate. Secondly, should there be a case-by-case procedure in the municipality, and who should handle it? And do the municipalities have additional funds to deal with these new cases, or do they have to save in other areas in order to finance the implementation of this proposal? Thirdly, if, as a public servant, one ignores a case of neglect, should one be able to be held responsible for the failure to report, as is the case in other situations when we talk about the Service Act? Should there be reprisals against home care if they have not been aware of a situation, and what authority will have to deal with these matters? We agree with the intention of the proposal, but believe, as has been shown here, that it is too far-reaching, but also too concrete, without responding to any significant questions or concerns. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163232	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163239	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the debate, which I think is important for us to have, and that is also what I hear from many of you other rapporteurs, because unfortunately we see regularly that some of these cases appear in the media where animals have been grossly neglected. As all the other rapporteurs have said, this proposal is, of course, about the fact that we would like to have an obligation to inform public employees when they observe obvious neglect, but not about going in and judging whether a dog looks a little thin or what else they might be able to do. Because I agree that you do not necessarily have the competence to do so. But when you come out and experience a case where there may be animals walking around in their own feces, and if fur may be covered in it, then I think it is obvious that you should react. So it's not that far we have to look back. After all, it is no more than two weeks since we saw a case that was quite awful. There were 91 dogs covered in their own feces, but fortunately it seems that most of them survive and can get out to some new owners. I do not think that there were municipal employees involved in this matter, but there are other places. At least in this motion for a resolution there are three cases which we have received from the Animal Protection Agency. One case is a case in which a number of cats had walked around in their own excrement in a house. There were animals in every room. In another case it was 146 birds that had been tucked together in a one-bedroom apartment where they flew around, and there were again excrement all over, and one had to wear a mask just to be in there. Nest boxes were set up on the wall. It was a case where there were municipal employees who were past the apartment without anything being done about it. A third case concerned a dog owner who had 14 dogs. There were excrement all over again, and it was therefore a matter where it was obvious that it was a matter of neglect of the animals. Finally, action was taken, but it ended up that many of the animals had unfortunately to be killed. It's a shame it gets so far, because what's the point of this proposal is that you have to put a stop to these cases before it gets that far. I don't think there are any of these owners who have deliberately tried to misrule any of these animals. That is because the problems have simply gone over their heads because they may have other things to contend with, and that is also often why they have been in contact with public authorities. The protection of animals is also included in articles such as: metroXpress mentioned that they get up to 15-20 anonymous inquiries a year from various municipal employees, who report to them that there are some cases that they at least want to have a closer look at. So, in short, we want to help those animals so that they do not get into these extreme situations, but it is also helping those owners whose problems have often risen above their heads, so that we can, perhaps not prevent them, because many people have started to go wrong, but at least prevent the situation from going as wrong as we have read in the media where it ends up killing animals. That is why we want to see this obligation to provide information so that these cases can be reported where there is obvious mistreatment, because there are several examples of this. However, I would like to say that I am well aware that, as a Member of Parliament, we very rarely get our resolutions adopted in this Chamber, so I am very pleased if something happens, and that is what happens, if an inter-ministerial working group can be set up to look at how we can define this as something that can be realized out in reality, so that after all some action can be taken. So I'd like to sign for that. After all, I think it is positive that we can get something out of this debate. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163618	There's a question. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163621	I also think it is a good thing that we can find each other in order to find a solution which is perhaps better than the one proposed in the motion for a resolution. But it is the resolution before us that we are discussing here, and I have to ask the rapporteur something: when the rapporteur says that yes, in some cases it is so gross animal abuse or so gross negligence that some of these descriptions in the text refer to the fact that it is obvious to every thinking person that something is quite wrong, where does it stop? What about those cases where it's not as obvious? If you had to make a parallel to the obligation to notify children, you could risk a SOSU having to go to prison for 4 months because she or he had not been trained to see if this animal had suffered harm if it was not as obvious as some of the cases we have heard about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163731	Now we do not mention anything about the penalty if we do not report in this motion for a resolution, but we merely mention that we can look at the way we do in relation to children who are mistreated or abused, which is even more horrible. Let's take a look. We have chosen to say that there is an obligation to report there because it can prevent some cases so that it can be stopped before things go terribly wrong. Many times it's gone wrong, but then before it gets really bad. This is just the same thing we are calling for in these cases. It is clear that it is not about looking at whether there is enough feed for the canary, but in some places you can see it, because if there are 146 birds flying around in a one-bedroom, it is so obvious, and then you should report it and get something done about it. It is clear that, in cases where it is not obvious, we will not pursue the public servant who has not done so, because then we can say in the name of justice that, when it is not obvious, it is probably not there either, that we should pay a fine or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163821	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163838	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519163903	With this bill, L 205, the government wants to introduce a temporary job prize for the long-term unemployed who come into work. According to the proposal, long-term unemployment benefit recipients of cash assistance, educational assistance, resource development benefit and unemployment benefit are to receive a job premium for labour income in the second half of 2015. The temporary job premium scheme shall apply for the period from 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015 and shall be granted to long-term unemployed beneficiaries of cash benefits, etc. who have an income from work or a self-employment during the second half of 2015. The draft law includes a group of persons who, on a specific date, on 31 March 2015, were entitled to and received educational assistance, cash assistance, resource development benefit during resource or unemployment benefit or were employed with wage subsidies and who, in 329 out of 365 days in the period from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015, received one or more of these payments. It is proposed that the job premium should amount to 10%. of the monthly labour income, up to a maximum of DKr 1 500. per month, to persons receiving income as an employee, etc. in ordinary employment and in employment with wage subsidies. With this proposal, the government recognises that, in this way, more economic incentives are needed to get more people into the labour market. Several must join together, having a job to stand up to. It is a question of increasing participation in employment, of reducing the risk of long-term unemployment among recipients of cash benefits. The Left wants to support this bill. We see it as a small step in the right direction, a small step that hopefully can bring people closer to the labour market, and the assessment is that about 12,000 of the target population of approx. 110,000 people will get into jobs where they will be entitled to a job prize. But it is a temporary scheme, so it will not change decisively the incentive to take a job. There is still a need for job reform, in which we will have the tax permanently reduced for people who have the least wage incomes, thereby giving them a greater incentive to be in the labour market, to take a job, rather than to be on a transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164205	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164218	Thank you, sir. President. Today there is really good reason to pop the flag of the people who have been excluded from the labour market for various reasons: they may have been ill, on early retirement or received resource benefits, or whatever the reason has been. It's good if they can get to work. These are also some of the groups that have had the most difficulty in finding work precisely because of the financial crisis in which it has hit the ordinary ordinary unemployed. Fortunately, there is now a situation in which employers start to demand labour, and that is why you are looking at whether you can beat two flies with a spanking, so both satisfy employers who would like to have labour, but also look at whether it is possible to get a system where people are prized. Instead of punishing those that the blue parties want by reducing benefits, the government here chooses, what the Socialists can fully support, to make sure that you get a financial gain, that is, a bonus if you get to work. It is linked together in such a way that if, in the jobs you have already taken, you meet the conditions, the conditions for how many hours you have to work, then it will already enter into force today, and that also applies to the second half of 2015. So that means you're not being punished, even if you just have so it's good that you can make up to 9,000 kroner. extra, if it is that one gets to work through the scheme. It is therefore a cash bonus, it is a cash reward for those who have been outside the labour market for some time and then come back to the labour market. If both employers and job centres are really vacillating at the garden gate here, I would argue that there are very good opportunities for those employees who walk out and into the labour market and have found it difficult to keep busy if you combined it with some training. For many of those who have been excluded, the necessary qualification has not necessarily been given. If you do this, it can become very good and stable employees... someone who bites on the labour market. And in this way they can become self-supporting and stay away from passively receiving social benefits. Therefore, it would be good to combine it that way. Because we know that the labour market is not asking for lower qualifications but, on the contrary, for better qualifications, and it will then allow us to combine this as I see it. This is a very good legislative proposal, and we are now testing whether it provides additional employment and whether more people are going to work. I have no doubt there is. We have tried to do something in the past with single parents and cash aid, but this is a little extra, and that is why I think it is a good proposal which the Social Democratic Party can wholeheartedly support. I simply do not see that there are any negative aspects to this, because I also think that efforts have been made to find a low-bureaucratic system so that the money is added to completely automatically. This is not something to apply for, except for self-employed people. It is also made possible for them to receive an additional amount. And in this way we can ensure that all those who have been affected by long-term unemployment over a period of time will now be able to return to the labour market because there are better economic conditions, there are more job openings. And so we are now giving a cash bonus to those who have not had too much routing, and the Social Democrats are happy to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164610	There are two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164618	Thank you to the rapporteur. We can only agree that it is a good thing if people, as the rapporteur says, who have little to rustle with, and that is not the case if you have been on cash benefits, for example. For a whole year, which is, like, the criterion here, gets a little more money. I am more concerned about the thinking and the reasons for this bill, because I fully share the rapporteur's view of what we are dealing with, what it is for people and what it is in. It is people who are far away from the labour market for one reason or another. The rapporteur himself mentioned that some of them are ill. It is unfortunately a fact in today's Denmark that you can risk being ill for a long time without receiving sickness benefit and that you have to live on cash benefits instead. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur really believe that what is called economic incentives should make it easier for these people to get a job on the labour market if they are far away from the labour market for the reasons described by the rapporteur himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164721	I do not think it will make it any easier as a single thing, because if there is no work to be done, one can make enough reward schemes, I think, without it working. But what's important here is the combination, and then it's time. Even in the areas which have been plagued by high unemployment, we are seeing a little better, after all. And we can see that there are also individual industries that are lacking people. Therefore, my remarks about doing this wisely: educating up the system, using job rotation and various other schemes to connect some training to. Because with regard to some of those who have been gone for a long time, and Mr. Finn Sørensen, I believe, was the rhetoric of the bourgeois, that you should learn to stack spaghetti in towers and know your inner bird etc. But if you combine it with that, that people can get some education that they need and that employers demand, then I think it can be a matter of higher unity here. And then you add a cash bonus, and it's far better than punishing people and lowering benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164826	The questioner on the second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164829	Thank you. We can quickly agree on that. But I asked about the argument behind it. Because it is not really understood that there is really the same line of thought in this bill as the bourgeois over there on the other side of the House, namely that here we have a group of people who, if they just get a financial incentive, will probably find themselves a job understood that when they don't have a job today, it is enough because they don't really bother. That is the same argument I hear in the draft law. The rapporteur does not use it very much; it may well be that the rapporteur does not entirely agree with it. I'd like to hear something about that. But that is the argument used in the draft law. I just ask again: why should it be easier for people, for example. is long-term ill, has lost their self-esteem, because they have been very far away from the labour market, and have not maintained their competences, to get a job because perhaps a prize is waiting for some in reality perhaps a few hundred kroner at the other end?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519164930	I think sir... Finn Sørensen quite well knows the expression I want to use now. In Vendsyssel, we say, "Day's gonna be easy to work, then we're gonna be gonna be lucky." That is why it is important that, if you get up and do your job, you also get a cash reward. I think most people think so. There, by common help, we have arranged to organise both our tax system and the employment allowance, so that it is worth working. And there's gonna be another phase-in. The reason why we are doing this now is that the business cycle is there. Employers are looking for labour, and if we can get people out to work in this way, that's a good thing. And I do not think that wages are too high or that the benefits are too high, and that is the opposite of what the bourgeois people are talking about, namely that the benefits must be reduced in order to promote inequality. We don't like that. So we'd rather use the carrot than the whip.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165029	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165032	Thank you. But I can totally confirm that, sir. Finn Sørensen has just said that one gets the feeling that the Socialists are finally recognising, as the rapporteur has already said, that working must be worthwhile. That's absolutely right. I have to say that we are very grateful for the fact that the recognition that it is actually relevant to people that working is worthwhile is finally coming. If it were then worth working, this proposal would not be necessary, because it could already be answered without the bonus. But if the rapporteur finally acknowledges that it should actually be able to respond, could it be that, if it turns out to be right, even with this proposal, the Social Democratic Party would help to go further in this direction, so that it should pay to take a job and that the difference between working and not work has to be a little bigger in this country? There must be more people for whom it is worth taking a job, for example. by getting the taxes off some of these people at the bottom so it pays better to go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165139	Somewhere I am glad not to be invited to a ball in the bourgeois, in the blue block, because we have just heard the rapporteur of the Left like the proposal, that is to say to give those who have been far outside the labour market • those who are long-term unemployed and sick, etc., who have some special circumstances • a bonus. That's good, says Left. And then Conservatives sit next door and say no, it's no good at all. So it's gonna be pretty fun to hear how you're gonna have a common election on this point, because it's at least going in different directions. What Mrs Charlotte Dyremose is doing is turning things upside down. It's always worth taking a job. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose is going to answer what kind of benefits you can get, which you can choose for yourself if you can choose whether you want to be on a social benefit rather than going to work. We therefore have provisions available in this country to make it available to the labour market. And if you do not, sanctions will follow. So it has to be, and I think it's good that we have them. But that also means that it's not a roof-top table, because if there's a job to get, of course you have to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165243	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165246	Now, we Conservatives have succeeded in getting the Left to help ease the tax on work. I'm sure we'll do it again. And, on the other hand, I can be pleased that I can agree with people right over to the Enhedslisten that it is now clearly the case that the Socialists too must recognise that it must actually pay to take a job. But I simply have to ask Mr. Bjarne Laustsen: If it is already worth taking a job today and if Mr. Bjarne Laustsen will actually stand up for the fact that the difference between being on a public service and taking a job today is big enough at all times, what is the point of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165323	Well, it could be a good discussion for big brother and little sister to have between Left and Conservatives how to deal with such a situation. What is, after all, a fact is that since 2007-2008 we have had a large and increasing unemployment which has also affected some of the weakest groups in the labour market, and so it is not they who get to work first. That's why they've been outside. Instead of following the blue rhetoric and lowering the benefits, we give them a cash reward. We find this much more sympathetic, and we also think it works much better. And then you have to combine it right, so the employer has to accept it. We often hear this from the Conservatives, too, that you lack labour, and if you cannot get the labour force in Denmark, then you just import it from Eastern Europe. In other words, we would prefer it to be Danes who come to work, and we give a cash reward to those who take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165417	Then there are still two brief comments left. The first is sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165424	I think I have rarely heard a rapporteur contradict himself so many times on the platform. Now we need to get this straight. It is said that working is always worthwhile. The rapporteur has just said so. Then the rapporteur said just now that no, we Socialists believe that if you take a job, you have to get a profit out of it and that is why we are introducing it here with the proposal. However, if it is already worthwhile to work, as the rapporteur also said, it is totally unnecessary. Well, both things can't be true at the same time, so what does Social Democracy think?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165502	Mr. Joachim B. Olsen about? It is true that the services that the rapporteur is talking about are not just people to whom you can subscribe. One cannot just say that one would rather have some social benefit than go to work. These are all temporary short-term benefits which can only be obtained if there is a social event. I mean, if you, for example... If you are to receive maternity benefits in this country, you must have given birth. If you are going to receive sickness benefit, you must have a medical certificate. And if you are going to receive a daily allowance, there must be a bill from the employer. So it's not like it's a rooftop table. It's there, sir. Joachim B. Olsen goes completely wrong in the city. Here we have some people who have been affected by illness, accident and various other things and who have then been outside the labour market for a period of time. We want them to be those who love the spacious labour market, just as many employers do want them back. We'd like them back. We are prepared to reward them instead of punishing those whom the Liberal Alliance wants. And that's the difference. It's pretty obvious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165603	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165605	The Liberal Alliance has suggested that all people in work do not pay taxes on the first DKK 7,000 they earn a month. This will make this temporary proposal, which will only come to New Year's, pale. This is a ridiculously small proposal in relation to what we have proposed, namely to reduce taxes also in the low-wage area. No, I really would like an answer to what I asked. The rapporteur said two things, which were contradictory, on the platform. He said that it is always worthwhile to work, and then he said: we are introducing this proposal because there must be an incentive, because it must always be possible to take a job. These are two contradictory statements, so what is the rapporteur's position? Sometimes you have to scratch your hair to find out. I see the rapporteur doing that. Now we want an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165703	It's always worth working. It is not certain that the Liberal Alliance understands this, and it may be that the rapporteur does not do it at all. But that's why it's still a truth that even if you could just choose, as I think Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is referring to the fact that you can only receive cash benefits for two years, and then they disappear. So if you have a job for three years, it's more than anything. It's always worth working. And, by the way, you always have to be available from day one if you lose your job. So there is both the question of how long you can get cash benefits and how much you can get, and it is a question of how much you have earned. I know that the Liberal Alliance would both reduce their wages if they could and reduce their benefits. It's a really bad cocktail for the Danish model. I think it should be respected first and foremost. So we want to reward people instead of punishing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165754	I would like to make one more brief remark, Mr President. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165759	Thank you. I think it is a really interesting debate that we have, namely this about whether it is worthwhile to work or whether it is not worthwhile to work. We have, of course, received very good answers from the current government that at this stage there are actually 330,000 people in Denmark who have a small amount of financial incentive to take a job. There are over 17,000 people who have nothing to do with going to work. You must bring money to work, and then my question is: is that right? I have been confused today, at a slightly higher level perhaps, because it is said from the platform at the moment that working is always worthwhile, and I would just like to ask: is this the wrong answer we have received from a minister, that the 17 000 should bring money to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519165906	No. In other words, if the premise is wrong, the answers will also be wrong. Of course it's always worth working, for that, sir. Hans Andersen basically asks whether you can choose whether you want to be on public support or have a job. So that's where it works opposite. It is the case that, first of all, if you are unemployed or if you have been ill and are well registered, you are available for the labour market. It's whether you're insured or you're a cash benefit recipient. And there we have a system of sanctions that we share, which allows you to take the money completely from people. I am completely of the opinion that it is far better to be consistent and say: if you are not available and take the work assigned if it is otherwise proper and environmentally correct, etc., what else we usually say, then you should have nothing. That's where the difference is, that some of the friends, sir. Hans Andersen has, believes, that you can pull the free number and choose to get a benefit that they then claim is higher than taking a low-wage job. And that's not how the world of reality is screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170006	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170009	I did not get an answer to the question of the 17 000, that is, whether it is true that 17 000 people actually have more to do with public support than taking a job. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur considers it reasonable that there should be 46 000 Danes with a gain of less than DKK 1,000. a month by going to work. Is that fair? Well, this is about getting up and doing a job, getting up early, taking the bike and driving to work. We remember a former Prime Minister talking about this, but we haven't moved on, and now the government is bringing this temporary arrangement. But it doesn't move decisively that 46,000 people have less than 1,000 kroner. out of going to work. And then I ask the rapporteur: is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170105	What was reasonable was if Mr. Hans Andersen would answer whether the problem is that the salary is too small, or that is that the benefit is too high. We have heard and looked at bus advertising that the Left will reduce the benefit for those who are on cash benefits. We know that, we just can't know exactly whether it's the children's money or it's the housing security or it's the cash benefits that have to be put down. If we could get that answer, we would have a real discussion, because there are only those options. But I am quite sure that by people coming back into the labour market there I think we share the opinion completely and bite their way into the labour market, something will happen both with their careers and with their upskills etc. and hence also their salary base. Well, we can see that's connected. And so, in the long term, if they get a job, everyone will benefit more. There is one thing that is absolutely certain, and that is that if they remain unemployed, none of them will get any more out of it. With regard to the 17 000 people we are talking about, it runs out at some point, and then they get nothing, because all the benefits we have are limited to a short time. So if they get a job, they are quite free to find themselves in a situation where they lose their entire income. So everybody's got something out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170215	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170229	Thank you, President. This is a good proposal supported by the Danish People's Party. This means, of course, that people who have been on long-term cash benefits in the last year will have the opportunity to get the job premium to the maximum. $1,500 if they get a job. The best is, of course, an ordinary job, because they get the employment allowance at the same time, but it can also be jobs with wage subsidies or job rotation or other benefits such as flexible job benefits. Then they can get a prize equal to the pay and the number of hours they have. We in the Danish People's Party think this is very good. It can promote people's opportunities in the labour market and also give them an extra gain so that they feel they have something to do with taking a job that may not be among the highest paid, but may be what makes them gain a foothold in the labour market. So the Danish People's Party can support that. We don't have much of a problem. Of course, as always, it will be exciting to see how many people benefit from this job prize and move on from perhaps wage subsidies or job rotation and get an ordinary job. Because of course we expect this to be the springboard for people who have been on cash benefits for a long time to get in touch with the labour market, that is to say to a real company and that they can then move on. It shouldn't just be short-term, that is, they get a job prize, and then it's over, and then they come back on cash benefits. Of course, some people are coming, but we believe that some people can get a foothold on the labour market and move on. This is the purpose of what we have understood in the Danish People's Party, so that it is precisely for people to gain some experience and some knowledge of what it means to be in the labour market. They can gain some business experience they can take with them when looking for a new job and then entering a permanent job on the labour market. Because it is not the intention that people, regardless of what benefit they go on whether they are receiving cash benefits, wage subsidies or are in job rotation, should continue with it for the rest of their time. We have to work to get them into a permanent job, and this can help kick some people off: they can see that they have a gain by getting a job. So in the Danish People's Party we support the proposal and look forward to the effects of it. We are, of course, curious to see how many people can then use the scheme and how many have got an ordinary job when the six months have passed, if an inventory can be made of it. It should be borne in mind that this also applies to those who have started up after 31 March this year, i.e. if they have started up in a job or in a wage subsidy job or job rotation, because then they can get the benefit. So this is not just for those who only get started once the law is passed; it is with retroactive effect. You get the benefit on a quarterly basis, so there are already many people who can look forward to them receiving an extra grant of max. 1,500 kroner. a month when the law is passed. This has something to do with how many hours a week they have in the labour market. That's what decides if it's $1,500. or less. But it all comes to its own right, and a grant like this is a good start. We should also bear in mind that if we can get people who get this in ordinary employment, then they will also get the employment allowance, which helps to raise the income they get home with them. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170641	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue to speak, and that is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Nadeem Farooq. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170651	Thank you. One of the biggest challenges in the Danish labour market is that the job market is actually closed to a lot of people who have been away from work for a long period of time. We're gonna change that. There are no easy solutions in this respect, but on the contrary there are a great many things that need to be done right, not least on the political side, if we are to succeed in opening up the job market so that more vulnerable citizens can enter and become self-supporting. For us in the Radical Left, it is absolutely crucial that more people are given the opportunity to become self-supporting and thus also financially freed. Economic liberation is really important, and I think we can actually agree with most parties on that. The vision behind this proposal for a job premium is precisely financial liberation. It is about helping more people into the labour market, and it is going very well for many people to get a job. We have a dynamic labour market, but we also have a labour market where it can be very difficult to get in if you have been outside it for a long time. It is true, as the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen, in his rapporteur's speech earlier, said that the idea of a job prize is a small step. I agree with Mr. Hans Andersen in, but I think it is a step that needs to be taken together with many other steps, which then counts in the big accounting. There are some things that are important to us all the time to be aware of. It is that it must pay to work for everyone and that more jobs must be created in the Danish labour market. And this is not just about labour market policy, but also about fiscal policy, business policy, fiscal policy and other policies. And the labour market must be inclusive, spacious and open, and all attempts to pull in that direction are right. One might ask: Will the job prize be revolutionary or groundbreaking? No, but it will help to support the movement towards more people being given the opportunity to become self-supporting. The movement is, of course, something that needs to be continued, and in this respect we actually believe that a temporary job prize for people who have been convicted for a long time is a real step forward. That is why the Radical Left supports L 205.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170955	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519170957	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Can the rapporteur not try to explain to me why this job prize should strengthen the movement towards these people getting a job? What is it in the mechanics that should change the fact that there are people who have been unable to enter the labour market for a very long time now because there are no jobs for them or because they are unable to meet the demands of the labour market? What, then, should change that by giving them a job prize? Can the rapporteur not try to explain to me what kind of mechanics this is actually coming into force here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171030-2	I believe that an adequate explanation would require, indeed, a long explanation. For many of the citizens this is about have challenges beyond unemployment, and there I think a lot of things are involved. But one of the things that is important is whether you swim like a fish in the water in the labour market or you are convicted outside the labour market is the incentive. Well, it's the reward that plays a part. It plays a role for all of us in some form or other. And there I think that reward can help to support this movement towards getting back into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171123	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171124	Thank you. Well, I agree with the rapporteur's description that many of the people we are talking about here have other challenges that make them not just able to jump into the labour market if they are fortunate enough to get into a job available. But then I just ask, why should it help these challenges? If they disappear, what should we say, disease or lack of competence? Are they suddenly transforming into strong skills that make them a sought-after workforce? What happens when you're suddenly told that if you're lucky to get a job, there's a bonus? Or is it that the rapporteur actually agrees with the bourgeois parties that an important reason why these people do not work is that they do not really bother because it cannot really swerve so, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said? Is that what's going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171222	The unbearable ease shown by Enhedslisten in this case, I do not subscribe to. Well, things are more complicated than that. But the incentive is that there is an additional incentive to get to work. It's not a question of whether you're lazy or something, but it plays a part. It plays a role for all of us to some extent, so it also plays a role in that case. But it can be said that not all people, citizens, have these challenges beyond unemployment, and for which such a job premium may be relevant. But it will be for some, and if it helps, then this job prize has a justification.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171317	In SF, we believe that such a prize of up to DKK 1,500 is positive. per month tax-free for up to 6 months and 9,000 DKK. In total, if you like. as a cash benefit recipient gets a job. But for us, it is also crucial that there should also be more opportunities for getting a job. In the SF we have made our contribution by presenting a plan that can create 13,000 jobs, 9,000 jobs in the private sector and 4,000 in the public sector. This is among other things. In the case of a new craftsman's allowance, the housing job scheme, where it is worth noting only improvements to the energy standard that are subsidised, for example. new roofs, better insulation or new windows, which also isolate better, and thereby also reduces the dangerous CO2 but our job plan also deals with other environmentally oriented jobs such as projects involving the incorporation of second generation bio-ethanol into petrol, more forest planting, the advance of climate adjustment plans, so that we get fewer flooded cellars, fewer ruined roads, but also energy renovation of public buildings. There are also points in our plan that are about such things as better ventilation in classrooms, it will also require work to get it done, and you need some more up-to-date equipment at the vocational schools • just to mention some examples from the SF's job plan. The point is that the creation of jobs is absolutely crucial if we are to succeed in getting more cash benefit recipients into work, among other things. through the job prize that we are dealing with now. It is simply not enough. Then there has also been a debate in the Chamber today about whether it is worthwhile to work and what people are actually doing. There I would like to take the liberty of using my own wife as an example. She is unskilled, she was unemployed for a year, and she has now taken up a job, and she has had a year now when she gets 300 kroner. less in salary than she received on the allowance • 300 kr. less a month but she gets a collective salary, I would like to emphasise that. Why did she take the job that gives her a little less money? She's done that because she couldn't stand being unemployed. Among other things, she could. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. It's a huge load. But another reason why she has taken up this work is that she also experiences having a community with colleagues again, that you can talk to them about big and small when you have a break, and it also has a great value, and finally it has a crucial value that you again experience a work function in society. That is why I would like to say that when it is mentioned that there are 17 000 people in Denmark who would be better off at a public service than at work, it is important to add that more than 16 000 of the 17 000 are actually working, and that is partly because of this. the three reasons I have just mentioned, which are the motivation for people to want to work in that situation too. However, it may be that such a job premium will be an additional incentive for a certain smaller group, and therefore it is positive, and it is also positive for us in the SF that we find the money for this scheme, by saving some money, because prices and wages have increased less than expected, and that means that the state is saving part of its budget. It is very important for us in the SF that we have not followed the model of financing which the Carsten Koch Committee in its report No. 2 added that it would be necessary to reduce benefits to other recipients of cash benefits in order to give a bonus to the recipients of cash benefits who are going to work. That model would have been totally unacceptable to the SF. Then I would like to make a few comments, which are also the result of some of the consultation responses that have been made. The FTF supports the bill, but they also point out that the employment effort for many people with problems other than unemployment needs to be addressed, among other things. through upskilling, but also the treatment of health problems and other offers that improve the individual's ability to work, and therefore this job premium cannot stand alone. The LO also supports the proposal, but points out that the central issue is the creation of jobs, and I have mentioned this, but they criticise, like the FTF, that the premium is paid very late on a quarterly basis. We in the SF don't think that's good either. The Danish Social Advisor Association points out that the labour market must be more inclusive and that employers must be prepared to take more employees with reduced working capacity, and they are so completely right to do so in order for it all to function better. My time has elapsed, I can see here on the stopwatch, and that is why I will conclude by saying that this proposal for a job premium is a good proposal, but we must bear in mind that it is not a miracle cure. The SF therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171834	There is a brief comment or a question. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519171837	Thank you. I share the rapporteur's arguments and views on this very much. The rapporteur said something very, very important, namely that he took note of the fact that this tiny improvement is not being financed by the recipients themselves or by the groups which it may fall into; it would be quite unacceptable to finance it by cuts in other areas against this group. I fully agree with that, but can the rapporteur confirm that the rapporteur's party has actually been involved, not in this context, but in other contexts, in doing exactly what the rapporteur considers to be unacceptable. I am thinking of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, where part of the savings that occurred in the context of deterioration and tightening up in the granting of early retirement have been used for tax relief, while others have been used for the implementation of resource development. It was similar to the tightening of the sickness benefit rules, where the saving that occurred by people being able to lose sickness benefit 7 months before they could otherwise was used for job clearance courses and the benefit to be provided in connection with job clearance courses, the resource progression benefit is called it. Something similar was done in relation to the reform of the social security system, which drastically reduced benefits for young people in the field of cash benefits, and this was done, among other things, in the context of the reform of the social security system. used to finance corporate tax reliefs. Does the rapporteur also think that this was unacceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172014	First of all, I would like to say that a number of the reforms mentioned here, among others. offers a more holistic help to the individual, who is outside the labour market with major mental or physical problems, and the holistic effort is very valuable from the point of view of the SF. Then I know that there are some municipalities that do not live up to it properly, but there are also some who live up to it, and that is at least a better way of helping people to return to the labour market. Then there is the question of certain benefits that have been reduced. Enhedslisten, sir. Finn Sørensen makes it sound as if it were in SF's programme that those services should be reduced. I can say that it did not, and it still does not. But the truth is that when you are part of a government, as the SF did, between three parties, there are also different power struggles between the three parties, and some of the power struggles lost the SF, and therefore the result was also that there were certain reductions in benefits. This may sometimes be the price of participating in cooperation of the nature of the government period for SF. The SF is now outside the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172121	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172124	Thank you. I did not claim that the deterioration in the reforms I mentioned was included in the SF's programme. I am well aware that they did not. I was merely aware that the rapporteur is pleased about this funding that it is not being financed by cuts to the same group, because that would be totally unacceptable. It was the rapporteur's choice of words, and it was just that I thought of all the reforms that the SF helped to implement, based on exactly the thinking that it was all the sick and unemployed who were allowed to pay themselves for the improvements that are also in some of those reforms and the holistic thinking. Then we can discuss how much it is being implemented, but on paper it is in any case actually written. Then I simply took note of the fact that this was the way the mechanics were, and I just wanted to know whether the rapporteur thinks it was quite unacceptable and that if it was not, it would obviously be acceptable since it was involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172231	Firstly, there is part of the money that was obtained through what Enhedslisten here mentions, which was used to help people better, and it is valuable. Secondly, I also believe that it must be clear to everyone who hears this debate that I have outlined that it was not SF's opinion or proposals that those benefits should be reduced. But I have mentioned that it was part of a larger whole, where SF was part of the government. Apparently, there is sometimes a certain price you have to pay for it, even if it is not really the policy of the individual party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172308	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172327	Thank you. Enhedslisten supports the bill. The unitary list is always ready to help people who live on the edge of the poverty line or who are in a very difficult economic situation. A large part of this group are people who have been on cash benefits for a long time at least 1 year and so you can see the bottom of the household fund. That is why we can only vote in favour of giving them the opportunity to get such a job prize. We completely disagree with the premises for this, as described in the draft law. Because it is clearly stated that the aim is to provide people who are far away from the labour market with an economic incentive to seek and get a job. Dear government parties: I thought that, unlike the bourgeois parties, we agreed that it would be worthwhile for the group we are talking about here too to work, that is to say, for this group here to speak Vendsysselsk. After all, we have repeated this countless times in the polemics in this Chamber and in the media against the bourgeois. We have jointly criticised the bourgeois proposals for a ceiling on cash benefits, we have strongly criticised the Danish Employers' Association's proposals for drastic reductions in social benefits, and both proposals have the clear and stated aim of increasing the difference between the lowest wages and social benefits, with the aim of, of course, pushing down the lowest wages even further. There is little hiding on that side of the House, and the whole argument and the thinking behind the proposal here is really singing with that tune, which the bourgeois people have also smelled today and smelled blood, one might say. We recognize, of course, that a carrot is better than a whip, but the basic thinking is the same. The fact that carrot is better than whip doesn't change the fact that there is a mistrust of the unemployed: it's probably their own fault, they can just pull themselves together, they'll find a job, and if they have trouble with it, we'll lure them with a job prize, and then they'll get to work. That is to say that when they are not in work, it is enough because they do not think it can swerve itself, even though all the figures show that that is exactly what it can and that they are working. Even if there should be only a small financial gain from what the previous rapporteur, the rapporteur from the SF, has just explained. Then there are some other shortcomings. After all, this proposal highlights some of the injustices and inequalities that arose from the flex-job reform. The Danish Handicap Federation has already responded to this in their hearing answer, because this means that if flex workers get a job, yes, then they only get a job bonus for the perhaps a few hours they get paid from the employer because they completely turned up and down an otherwise very good flex job scheme. There is also a large group of cash benefits recipients who cannot be included in this at all, even though they are in just as difficult a situation as the rest of the target group. It is they who are affected by the cash benefits rules that say that if you have a spouse, yes, then the spouse is required to support you. And there the spouse does not have to earn much until it is set off in cash benefits, or it completely disappears, whereby the person also disappears from the statistics that would otherwise give entitlement to a job premium if you were fortunate enough to get a job. Then there's the job effect. We have not heard much explanation as to why it is expected that 12 000 people will get to work. It's probably because it seems a little difficult to give a fairly solid scientific and sober explanation for it, but we might have that for the benefit. After all, the Minister for Employment comes to the floor and then we look forward to getting a serious, good and thorough explanation of why there should be 12,000 jobs out of this. There are two main problems and challenges for the group we are talking about here, fortunately what several rapporteurs have mentioned: the rapporteur from the SF and the rapporteur from the Social Democrat Party, and thank you for that. Paragraph 1: There is no job for these people; there is no labour market that will accept them. Paragraph 2: Many of them, not necessarily all, but very many of them are so far away from the labour market that few of them can just jump into a job and meet the often quite unreasonable demands that employers have been given the power to make today. These are the two main challenges for this group. Perhaps we should devote much more effort to addressing them, and I will, as the SF did, allow me to point out that Enhedslisten is working with the SF and fortunately also with the governing parties. There has been cooperation on several good initiatives that create real jobs and thus give much better place to the labour market, including to the group we are talking about here. We have, for example. a good agreement on more non-profit housing, which in future will give jobs to 15 000. We need more of this, and Enhedslisten has recently put forward some proposals for some special initiatives tailored to this group. One is a revised version of the service job scheme agreed by Enhedslisten with the Nyrup Government in the 1990s, which was an icebreaker scheme targeted at vulnerable unemployed people, and the other is a strengthening of social economic enterprises. Finally, I would just like to say that we fully agree with the LO, which does not believe that increased financial incentives are the solution to getting more people into jobs. That's the word of the LO. The core of the effort should, in the view of the LO, be to create jobs, and then I would add in an abbreviated version of what they say it is also to make a proper social policy effort that can help these people closer to the labour market, build their health, their self-esteem and their competences. That is as true as it has been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172933	Thank you. There is a brief question from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519172936	Well, it's Tuesday afternoon, and thank you for that, sir. Finn Sørensen on behalf of the Enhedslisten immediately says: we are voting in favour, that is a good proposal. I think it's amazing that you spend 99 percent. of its time to tell us why this is a bad proposal. But it's obvious if you can't tell the difference between a whip and a carrot. The whip's coming from the blue side. They're gonna put down the benefits. We'll give you a cash reward. There's a big difference. It's not like smelling blood or anything. It is a cash reward for people who have had an accident: traffic accident, accident at work, sickness, anything else. They come back to work, and then they get a cash reward. There's a big difference between it and putting the benefits down. But at least I'm glad that Mr. Finn Sørensen after spending 99%. In the case of the negative part of the speaking time, it remains to be seen that it is not so bad and that working can continue to be worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173034	It can, even if you do not give such a job prize. I do not think the rapporteur has really got the point. I said yes, of course there's a difference between whip and carrot. That's why we can support this bill. But when I made so much of it, it was because we have a huge ideological battle going on in this country. There is a violent offensive from the parties to the right in the Chamber that will blame the unemployed for not being at work. This is one of the most important political issues in the political debate in Denmark, especially in the run-up to the forthcoming parliamentary elections. And there is no point in actually meeting the bourgeois parties, as we do in this draft law, on their basic view that an economic incentive is what brings the unemployed to work. That is why Enhedslisten is doing something about arresting the reasons and not the proposal itself. We are voting in favour of the proposal, but it does not really matter what reasons are used in the political debate and if, as we are doing here, the citizens come to terms with the fundamental question that, if the unemployed get some financial incentives, they will get to work, then they will go completely wrong in the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173151	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173153	That's amazing. There's a difference between whipping and giving a carrot. We're agreed on that, aren't we? Yet, Mr. Finn Sørensen warmly welcomes this and says that there is no justification for giving an economic carrot, because it is worthwhile to work anyway. Well, then you shouldn't have voted in favour if you have that view. So here we have a group which, on the basis of the bourgeois government's barn, financial crisis and so on, where more than 150,000 jobs disappeared and where ordinary employees also went out and came into unemployment, cannot be in what we call the spacious labour market, which I also know lies Mr. Finn Sørensen is very concerned. You can do something for that group, and here you give a cash reward if you succeed in getting to work. So I simply cannot understand that you spend so much time talking it down. I think we should spend some time talking it up and then rejecting the wishes of the bourgeois just to reduce the benefits. I think Enhedslisten should spend his time on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173251	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173252	I think that the rapporteur should take some time to go home and consider the contradiction he has encountered today, namely that he says, on the one hand, that it is worth working, but, on the other hand, says that if we introduce such an economic incentive, it will be easier for this group to get to work. It's got nothing on it. The bourgeois think so, and in other contexts we agree to criticize the bourgeois for that view. But now the rapporteur and the governing parties themselves have taken that view into account and are using it as an argument for introducing a job premium. For the Enhedslisten there is only one argument for introducing it here, and I mentioned this at the outset, namely that if we can help some people who are having a really difficult financial situation and it has to be said that this group is made up of people who are having a really difficult financial situation; the rapporteur nods that, we agree on that, then the Enhedslisten is included in it. But the justification can be put somewhere. And then I think we should go home and consider the contradiction in which we have been caught. For it will be torn in the nose from now on and throughout the forthcoming election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173408	Thank you, Mr President. Finn Sørensen. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173418	Thank you so much. I would like to start by correcting the previous rapporteur: we are not blaming the unemployed for being unemployed. It's a terrible nonsense and a strawman of the worst carat. That is simply not true. But then on this proposal. Now there are some young people sitting up in the gallery listening to the discussion of this bill, and I would say that if they are ever asked what the election pork is, then they just have to refer to this bill, L 205. For this is the epitome of electoral pork, and it is, of course, because a debate has been going on in Denmark for some time now that it has to pay to work and because there is an upcoming election. And what do you do? Then you piece up a bill that gives a bonus to the long-term unemployed if they get into employment. Funny thing, this arrangement expires on January 1st, when you know that the elections are over. This is the second time in a week that we're dealing with a bill in this hall designed for the government's campaign. It's in its simplicity what this bill is all about. Then there is also, as others have said, an incredible contradiction in the draft law. Now it has been discussed throughout this parliamentary term whether it is worth working, how many it pays to work for, whether the economic incentive to work is large enough in Denmark etc., and we have always been told that it is large enough. Nevertheless, such a system is introduced here, and that is a contradiction. It is a contradiction to say that there is now a need for an additional incentive to get someone into employment and that therefore this temporary arrangement is being introduced towards New Year. I think the citizens can see through the irony of it. For a great many Danes, working is not worth much. It is the government's own economists who say so. Today there are some 330,000 Danes who have what the government's own economists call a low incentive, a small incentive, to be in employment. They have what is called a level of compensation which is above 80%. Once the tax reform is fully phased in by 2022, there will still be a quarter of a million Danes who have a small incentive to be in employment, and that actually matters. It can be seen that the employment rate for that group is significantly lower than for the rest, i.e. those for whom it is worthwhile to work. If you have a low incentive to be in employment, the employment rate is also lower. The government has even demonstrated this on several occasions. That is why we think it is right to do something about it, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance have proposed that no one pays taxes on the first DKK 7 000 they earn per month. It is true that we have also proposed lowering cash benefits. In Denmark we have the world's highest cash aid. It means that too many people, especially those with cash benefits, cannot pay to work. Their level of compensation is close to 100% and they also have a very low level of employment. This is not appropriate, and it is not healthy, even for those families who are often on these benefits for a long time. We see that there is a social legacy in benefits, and the children of these couples have a very high risk of ending up with these benefits themselves, with all the social risks involved. So something needs to be done about the fact that for a lot of people it is not worth working. But this bill isn't the answer. It is purely electoral; it is a government that spends 82 million. kr. of taxpayers' money to be able to go out in the election campaign and say: look, we have done something about it. It's not serious. It is a structural problem that for many people it is not worthwhile to be in employment, and it is not arranged with a temporary solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173844	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173848	I think in all modesty that the rapporteur has not read the proposal at all or knows what it is about. Nor did I hear the rapporteur mention that these are some of the weakest in our society. It is people who have been ill; it is people who are on cash benefits that have lost their jobs; it is people who are in resource sequences; and it is different other groups. Not in a single word did I hear that it was said that that was what was going on. Of course, we also know that the Liberal Alliance does not. Others do, so they care how to get these people back into the labour market. It is a group of 110,000 that we are talking about here that now gets an opportunity to get a cash bonus. But since the rapporteur is talking so much about the question of what can be answered, can the rapporteur not just mention what kind of benefits you can get, where you can just say: I do not want to work, now I go down to the municipality and get a benefit instead of being able to respond better? According to the rapporteur, we can even earn more. Could the rapporteur just tell us what kind of benefits you can go down and get instead of having a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519173947-2	I am quite sure that I said that this proposal was aimed at the longterm unemployed. Then I find it very interesting that the Socialist rapporteur mentions who is in the target group here: it is resourceless, it is long-term disease. In other words, Mr. Bjarne Laustsen believes that the group of people responds to financial incentives. I think that's absolutely awesome, amazing. We will remember in the election campaign that people now believe in social democracy. We think that's good. Then Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, what kind of services you can just go down and get. And you have to be entitled to cash benefits, for example. You are entitled to this in Denmark, just as you are entitled to benefit, etc. But it is also the case that if you listen to the government's own economists, you hear that 30%. of the labour market recipients of cash benefits are not available to the labour market when they are asked for their own advice. It says, for example, that: in a publication from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, the economy of the families, distribution, poverty and incentives. I think it's about 14 percent. by the beneficiaries of the benefit. That's when you ask them yourself. So to claim that there are no incentive problems in the Danish transfer income system is to speak against better knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174118	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174121	Well, thank you. For the first time, we have succeeded in getting a confession from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: There are no benefits you can just go down and get. Everything else is nonsense about what is in financial reports, etc. The only thing that works if there is an unemployed person who lacks a job and the test of whether he or she is available for the labour market is to offer him or her a job. If you say no, you are not available, and then you should have nothing. It's the best way to test it. This is all about giving a cash reward to some of the groups who have been out in long-term unemployment and who are covered by it here. And basically, in Denmark, people go to work because they like it. But it can also be said to go to work in Denmark, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174208	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174209	I still did not get away with an answer to what it is like, long-term illness and resourcefulness have to respond to financial incentives. Enough about that. The Socialist rapporteur can talk about the rules of availability and legislation from now on, and until this scheme expires to New Year. If you don't want to work, you don't want to work. If sir... In fact, Bjarne Laustsen has never spoken to a company which has gotten a vacant person who did not want the work to which he had been assigned, Mr. Bjarne Laustsen not been out in the real world and talked to people who are actually out there. If you're assigned to a company and you just don't want to, aren't motivated to, and sign up sick, then it's so that you're still away on those benefits. This can be done in spite of all the availability rules, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen can list. What works in relation to the whole group is whether you get anything out of being in employment, whether there is an incentive for it. It affects the group. The rules of availability do not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174311	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174315	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen began his speech by saying that citizens do not blame the unemployed for being unemployed. I think that is wrong. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. I think that the blame has been placed on the unemployed. And I think it totally contradicts the reality. It is a huge burden to be unemployed: you have no idea what the future holds; you have to look for a lot of work and it is also fair that you should get a lot of proof of refusal; you are constantly told that you are not good and employers say they will call if you need the unemployed person, but they never call. You have to run for a lot of conversations and so on. But the short of the long term is that when it is the situation of 99.5%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174418	Who says that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174430	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174431	Well, I have, among other things. heard Mr. Joachim B. Olsen say in a TV debate. He has told a specific unemployed person, but he has also said in more broad terms that there we have a huge problem in society. And that is even in spite of the fact that the reality of 99.5%. of all the unemployed are as I have described it. Moreover, what I have said earlier in the debate is that of the 17 000 people in Denmark who would earn more from being on a public service, there are over 16 000 who actually work. And that completely undermines the bourgeois thinking that is sometimes expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174459	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174500	I never said that the unemployed are never lazy. The rapporteur cannot find a quotation for this. It is true that I told a specific unemployed person in a specific debate programme that he had a lax attitude, and I stand by that. He said he would only work in his own field. He wouldn't work with anything else, he wouldn't look wide, he would only work with what he was trained for. There was no job where he lived, and he didn't want to go where there were any jobs. That this is a lax attitude, I assume, is that most Social Democrats will say too. I mean, you have to take the job you're offered... that's what I've just heard... even if it's not in your own area. And if you don't want to, I guess you don't need any cash help. Does anyone disagree with that? I don't suppose there is. So it said I was a lax attitude. By the way, I didn't hear anyone get mad about it except Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174548	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174553	Can the rapporteur confirm the figures which Mr. Eigil Andersen joined the debate here, which shows that out of these approx. 17,000, which in economic terms do not gain any benefit from working, work more than 90 per cent. of them anyway? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174611	That's manipulating the numbers. Because what you don't take into account is the history that people in that group can have. I mean, it's people who are inside and out of the labour market... it can easily be. To claim that it does not matter to employment, that there is an incentive to be in employment, that it pays off, that you get some of it, is simply stupid. Because it is well-lit and well-documented in Denmark and in other countries that the fact that you actually get something out of being in employment means something to how many in the total group are in employment. It is well-lit, and it is also just common sense that it of course matters. Is that all that matters? No, it's not, and I've never heard any bourgeois say that's all that matters. But that is one of the factors that we can do something about in here from Christiansborg, which actually means a great deal, and we should do something about that. And for a great many Danes, also compared to citizens of other countries, the level of compensation is very, very high, and one can only see that in the group where the level of compensation is high, the employment rate is also significantly lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174727	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174729	Thank you. That was a very, very long answer to a very short and simple question. Can the rapporteur confirm the figures which Mr. Eigil Andersen come with you? Can the rapporteur also confirm that, despite the financial gain, the majority of the working group does not have the benefit, i.e. that they receive the daily allowance rate of this DKK 17 000-18 000.? If the rapporteur can confirm this, I would like to ask the rapporteur: how much should the daily allowance rate be reduced, so that it can be reduced in accordance with the wishes of the rapporteur. Joachim B. Olsen's view can pay for the group to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174808	Well, we haven't come up with a concrete estimate of what an allowance rate should be. But I would say that we think it would be healthy if the unemployment benefit system in Denmark were designed in such a way that it showed respect for the wages agreed on in the Danish labour market. And it doesn't when the highest daily allowance rate is 5-7 DKK. About what industry's minimum wage, for example. Is. Then the politicians have agreed some benefits higher than the wages agreed and approved by the social partners. I think it should be a guide to show at least respect for the agreements reached on the Danish labour market between the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174859	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519174910	Let me also start by saying that we in the Conservative People's Party in no way blame the unemployed for not being in work. After all, there are many different reasons why people are not at work, and that is why we must be careful to point out clearly the blame of which is that someone is not at work. Nevertheless, I would venture to point out the main direction in which I believe the blame lies. It is primarily to the left that the unemployed are not in work, and it is because the left in Denmark has succeeded in creating a system where our taxes and taxes are so high and the conditions for our companies so poor that it is not worthwhile to operate in this country and that it is not worth taking a job. The problem then arises of the disappearance of jobs from the country, and when it is linked to the fact that the incentive to get to work is as extremely poor as it is in Denmark, then the problem arises that some people, for that reason, are getting so far away from the labour market that it will be immensely difficult to get back into it. It is not the fault of individual people; it is the fault of politicians who have created that system. So if fingers are to be pointed here, the finger must be directed to the left, which has mainly been responsible for that system. So what are we gonna do? Yes, we need to look at what can really help. This is a confession case on the part of the government in every possible way. We have now established, not only with the draft law, but also with the words of the Socialist rapporteur, that it is actually relevant whether it is worth taking a job. You're gonna come up with this patch solution, and for some, it's gonna be a little more relevant. That's right. Should we then go along with the galley, as is the case, should we perhaps add to the previous speech, be rushed through so that the hearing parties have hardly been able to reply to the letters sent to them so that the government can fit it into its well-organized election campaign? Or should we try to ensure a long-term solution to a long-term problem? We Conservatives want the last of it. We will increase the employment allowance and provide for tax relief. So we've seen a goal that there's always going to be 3,000 kroner. We believe that this is an incentive that really makes a difference. You have to remember that when you go home, there is a better chance to go for good offers and you save transport costs. There are a lot of things you can save on when you don't have time to do a full-time job. Then it is quite true that there are plenty of people who God's law rises every morning and works hard at their work, even though it does not actually pay for them. And that's of course because there are lots of people in this society who just want to make a difference in their own and other people's lives and who basically believe that you have to take care of yourself before you put your hat in your hand and ask others for money. But it is clear that when our structure is as it is, we are putting them in a huge dilemma if they have to take money out of their pocket every day to take care of a job and therefore find it difficult to reach the things they also have to reach, and perhaps make sure to save as much as it is necessary when you are at the end of the income scale. So it's a huge problem. I think this proposal is quite thought-provoking because it recognizes that the difference between working and not working should be something greater, and not only for this group, but also for those who have been on cash benefits for 10 months or 8 months or 6 months. Because for all people it should pay to work. At the same time, however, it is said by the Social Democrats that the sick will probably get to work more quickly if they are given a bonus. On the other hand, I would like to challenge that, because if you cannot work because you are ill, then it is really just a cheap carrot to have slapped in front of you, that is to say you could now have earned 1,500 tax-free crowns more if you had not been ill. So this suggestion is a little weird, isn't it? We welcome the government's recognition that working must pay off, and we will continue to work with the fact that it will generally pay off to work and not just for a small limited group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175422	Thank you. Mr President, first of all, I should like to make a brief comment. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175426	Thank you. The rapporteur says that we must find a long-term solution to a long-term problem. Now I just want to point out that the Conservatives had 10 years when they ended up driving the country down. The jobs disappeared out of the country, you sat on your hands, you did nothing. Borrowing increased and there was no job creation at all. After all, groups of people got out of the labour market, and then you just stand there pointing fingers at the left. I do not know if I belong to the left, but I think it is good for a country to create jobs and not sit on its hands when the jobs go out of the country. And that's what happened while the Conservatives were on guard. Therefore, it is quite interesting that what is the Conservatives' answer is that the unemployed have to read offer papers, because it is an advantage to be available, because then you can get the good offers as opposed to those who are at work and come late to the store where the goods may be gone. Is it really the Conservatives' response to helping some people who have been affected by illness and accident back into the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175535	I am incredibly grateful for the opportunity to respond. I hope that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen will go to the Danish Parliament's website and read what I actually said, because it was not at all that. What I said was that our answer is that all people should have a prize of at least DKK 3,000. out of getting up every morning and doing their job. That is our answer. And that is why we want to increase the employment allowance; that is why we want to reduce the tax; that is why we want to ensure that there is a total ceiling on cash benefits. It must be worthwhile to work, I say to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. What is my silent point is that if it does not pay to work, if it has too many costs, then for some people there is a little too much holiness to get up every morning and do their job. Fortunately, there are many who do it anyway, and it is extremely commendable. But my point is that for a lot of people it just gets too high a price, and we can't be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175632	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175635	What Mrs Charlotte Dyremose said was that it is the fault of the left that people have become unemployed. But then Mrs Charlotte Dyremose also said that there were advantages in being unemployed, and that was that you could get some offers that others could not get because they had to do their job. That is what Mrs Charlotte Dyremose said. And that's why the answer to that must be that you have to read these offer papers. What kind of money do those who have a job have to take out of their pockets? I would also like to ask Mrs Charlotte Dyremose: are there any services you can go to the municipality, in the coffers or elsewhere and say you want to have instead of the work you have? Can the rapporteur mention just one benefit that you can subscribe to without having given birth or having been fired or being ill or other social circumstances?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175722	After all, it is quite remarkable that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen can ask that question over and over again, given that the bill, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's party colleague, the Minister for Employment, has stated that this incentive of 1,500 tax-free crowns will ensure that 12,000 more people get to work. - Sir... Bjarne Laustsen does not explain to me: If not the 1,500 kroner. in tax-free bonuses makes a difference, how can the Minister for Employment vouch for that giving 12,000 more people in work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175755	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175758	I could understand from Mrs Charlotte Dyremose's speech that she believes it is the fault of the left that there is unemployment in Denmark. I think we agree that in the ten years when Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen and then Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister and the Conservatives sat in government, was left influence very small. There was bourgeois influence. What was the end result after 10 years of bourgeois rule in the summer of 2011? It was that we had an unemployment rate equivalent to 163,000 full-time jobs. How can it be explained by the fact that it was to blame for the left when it was the bourgeois who sat in power for ten years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175849	Fortunately, in every parliamentary term, while we were in government, we managed to reduce the tax on labour, thereby making it more attractive to work. But yes, that is quite right, I would say to Mr. Eigil Andersen, that unfortunately there is no conservative majority in this country, and that is why we have not made all the reforms or ensured all the relaxations of both the tax and for our companies, which we would incredibly like to see. And it is a pity that there has also been left-wing politics in parties other than those who usually call themselves left-wing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175919	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175922	We can then see that today, after the new government has arrived and the SF has been in government and is now a support party, unemployment in Denmark is about 130 000 people. That's 33,000 less than when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's reign ended. But can we not make it clear that when ten years of civil rule resulted in 163 000 unemployed when the bourgeois period ended, it is not the left's fault that there was unemployment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519175955	We note that, unfortunately, in this Parliament, there is no courage to create a majority in order to secure the reforms needed if we are really to make it attractive both to work and to operate in this country. The whole mistake is simply to look at the fact that then the unemployment rate goes up a little, and then it goes down a little. No, we need basically to do away with many of the legholds that are to create businesses and to take a job in this country. We would incredibly like to take part in looking at this together with all those who want to work together on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180027	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180031	Thank you. I would just like to hear the rapporteur say how much allowance should be reduced, how much cash benefits should be reduced, how much sickness benefit should be reduced, so that, in the rapporteur's view, work pays off.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180049	We have no desire to reduce any of the benefits. We have a desire to create a ceiling on cash aid, and what we have a desire to do, in order to answer quite specifically, is that it should be possible for all people to pay at least DKr 3 000. to move from public support to employment. That is our aim in the reforms we want to work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180113	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180115	Thank you. This must mean that the rapporteur believes that the daily allowance should be reduced by approx. 3,000 kroner. For there are many jobs on the Danish labour market where you can earn no more than DKK 18,000. a month. Then there are some extra gains in terms of pensions, holiday money and some other things that make it some other amounts we talk about when it comes to the matter. But if it is the monthly wage you compare, then the daily allowance has to be reduced by DKK 3,000. So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that the ceiling on cash benefits is another way of reducing benefits? Because that means that if you are a cash benefit, there are certain benefits that you cannot get on the same scale as you can today. To get back on track, I would like to ask: in the view of the rapporteur, in order to make it attractive to work, how much should the key public services such as unemployment benefits and cash benefits be reduced? Or is the rapporteur of the opinion that the fact that we cannot be aware of this is something the rapporteur says to all those employers who think it is quite all right to pay such low wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180219	I repeat: we do not want to reduce the benefits. For us, it is all about being able to pay off working as a whole. This is why a ceiling on cash benefits is much more relevant than reducing individual benefits. When you're on sickness benefit, it's because you're sick, and it doesn't help to reduce the benefit. The group to which the government has also acknowledged this matter is the recipients of cash benefits. Then I would like to remind you that cash benefits are a temporary solution. We very much liked a stair model, so you got more money at the beginning and less money at the end. For then you could adjust your economy so that, overall, you got exactly the same thing, but just started on a higher amount and ended on a lower one. It will allow you not to leave home and home, even if you are short-term unemployed, and it will allow you to adjust your economy. We have plenty of suggestions on how to do it, but it will have to pay to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180318	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180325	Thank you for the debate on both the concrete proposal and on the many good and exciting things that have been said around it. Sir. Hans Andersen started by supporting the proposal, and although it was a small step, I would like to thank him for his support. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen did something about the fact that this is also an unbureaucratic solution, which I fully agree with. I shall come back to that. Sir. Bent Bøgsted supported, and Mr. Nadeem Farooq also based on the fact that there must be more who are self-supporting. Thank you, too, for the support of both Mr. Eigil Andersen and Mr. Finn Sørensen. Then I'll make it clear that I didn't get lucky. Joachim B. Olsen, who believed that it was electoral pork, what I should reject immediately that it had something to do with it. And I do not think I misinterpret Mrs Charlotte Dyremose when I say that there is probably not much support for the proposal there. This does not prevent us from having a proposal on which a broad majority in the Folketing has shown support with different arguments. I think it is a good thing, because what we are doing here is that we are giving some additional incentives to become part of the labour market with the emerging recovery that we will hopefully see in the future. That is good, because being part of the Community in the labour market is absolutely crucial. We are targeting this job prize to a group of citizens who are on what might be called the edge of the labour market, and therefore it is even more important that we do what we can to give them a foothold in the labour market. Otherwise, the risk of going into long-term unemployment is far too high. The second, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen mentioned that this is an unbureaucratic arrangement in which we directly inform these citizens. I think that's a good way to do it. I am grateful to the Danish Parliament for having dealt with this bill. It has come a little late in the session, but I think it is an important legislative proposal which, over the next six months, offers some additional opportunities for a group of citizens who need it. I look forward to the further work of the committee and, of course, tell the Employment Committee that I shall endeavour to ensure that the answers to the questions that need to be asked come as quickly and painlessly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180557	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180614	The debate is open. The Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs is the first speaker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519180646	Thank you for the floor, President. The Enhedslisten will, with B 113, require the government to submit legislative proposals before the end of 2015 to amend Article 45 of the Services Act and Article 97 of the Services Act in 15 hours per year. month for children from 12 years of age and adults with significant and lasting impairment of physical and mental function. According to the motion for a resolution, these systems must include social pedagogy assistance, what they are not doing today. The target group of the motion for a resolution is de veloping, people with brain damage or others with significant cognitive difficulties that cannot go alone and need trained social educators to accompany them. The government fully agrees with the proposers that the development impaired should be given the opportunity to participate in society and that accommodation in settlements should not be allowed to be the preserve and isolation of the target group. We therefore agree that those who need to be accompanied must, of course, be offered it. That is why it is also sympathetic that the Enhedslisten with the motion for a resolution focuses on the need for accompanying the target group. So has the government. However, we cannot support the resolution and believe that it should be rejected because the municipalities can already offer educational support to the target group. The municipalities can already offer the target group initiatives to strengthen their opportunities to live an independent life with development opportunities. The municipality can do this through the Service Act's offer of social pedagogy accompanying services, offers of association, activities etc. Social pedagogical support is therefore already a core service which the municipalities must provide to the citizens who need it. The Service Act provides the municipalities with flexible opportunities to organise the assistance so that it meets the needs of the individual. This also applies to social educative support, as mentioned earlier. Enhedslisten believes that 15 hours of monthly individual escort should be a citizen's right that does not depend on local service levels. I believe, however, that it is appropriate for the Service Act to take account of the fact that the need for accompanying citizens is not the same and that the municipalities have the opportunity to offer both collective and individual educational support. The government's main argument against the resolution is therefore that social education support is an effort that the municipalities must already make to the citizens who need it. The people in the target group have different needs. And to lay down rules that the citizen should be offered 15 hours of individual social pedagogy accompanying him on a monthly basis would in practice be a rigid and inflexible way of organising the work. It is therefore better to leave it to those who are close to the citizen to decide how to ensure the development opportunities and a versatile life of concrete people. It can, for example, be done. be a question of how many hours the individual needs for excursions etc. away from the settlement offer. This assessment can include how many hours the individual spends on treatment, activities and association with others on e.g. his estate offer. It can also include when and how individual escorts are needed, and when and how, for example. excursions in small groups can function best. In addition, I am concerned that the introduction of a right to 15 hours of social pedagogy support, as proposed by the Enhedslisten, risks reducing the social pedagogic support that citizens already receive either collectively or individually under the rules of social pedagogic assistance. It could, for example, be done. be that the municipalities decide that the residents of a residence offer, who receive social pedagogical support for e.g. cinema tours or 5 days holiday in summer cottage, in future may use Enhedslisten's accompanying scheme. Therefore, the proposal may include citizens who will experience a deterioration in their conditions. The Enhedslisten is based on the existing accompanying scheme under Article 97 of the Services Act, which means that the citizen bears the accompanying costs associated with the accompanying document, e.g.: for the transport of the accompanying person. If the Enhedslisten's proposal is implemented, the citizen will experience increased user charges if the social pedagogic escort under Section 85 of the Service Act on social pedagogical support is replaced by the Enhedslisten's proposal for accompanying them. I would, of course, like to explain that. When the social education accompanying worker is offered under Section 85 of the Services Act, the municipalities may not charge for the costs of the staff, even for the costs of the follow-up, e.g.: carriage. When the accompaniment is offered in accordance with Article 97 of the Service Act, the citizen pays the accompanying costs, but may have them covered by the municipality up to a maximum of DKK 837. annual. Whether or not the citizen will experience increased user charges as a result of Enhedslisten's proposal will, of course, depend on whether he chooses to use the scheme to accompany him in such a way that the derived incidental costs exceed that amount. It will therefore be those who can best afford to have most options among the activities of the Scheme with the Enhedslisten's proposal. In the comments on the motion for a resolution, reference is made to the KL's questionnaire study on the subject. social pedagogical assistance for participation in activities, holidays and excursions for citizens in municipal settlements etc., published by KL in November 2014. The KL's study shows that most municipalities have set a service level so that they offer educational support in connection with holidays and leisure activities for residents of municipal settlements etc. 12 municipalities replied, however, that in 2014 they had not established a service level for social pedagogy assistance to accompany activities, excursions and holidays. To put it mildly, I was concerned about the results of the study, because it raised doubts as to whether all municipalities are fulfilling their obligation to provide educational support so that the target group has the opportunity to get out of the settlements. That is why, in January of this year, I sent an orientation letter to all municipalities in which I informed of the rules for educational support for adults with significantly reduced physical or mental capacity and the obligations of the municipalities in this area. KL has subsequently stated that they have been in contact with the 12 municipalities, and all 12 municipalities have reported back to KL that all citizens are going on trips. It can be either all day trips or shorter trips at café, shopping or shorter trips in nature, just as all municipalities have announced that there are accompanying activities. In addition, in connection with the 2015 rate pool, which Enhedslisten is outside, we have allocated 39.4 million. kr. over 3 years to an application pool, which the municipalities can seek to develop how they offer accompanying and activities for adults. Following the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, municipalities need new money to implement their proposals. The economy in the resolution is under-funded, and I would, of course, like to justify that. Enhedslisten has estimated the potential target group to be approx. 5,000 people. The real target group is significantly larger than the approx. 5,000 people estimated by Enhedslisten. On the basis of Article 107 of the Services Act and Article 108 of the Services Act alone, there are approx. 7,800 people with mental impairment. In addition, the Enhedslisten has estimated that one third of the costs can be covered by new accompanying schemes replacing accompanying schemes which are already taking place. However, the scale today is not known, and since the resolution includes individual escorts, staff consumption is likely to be significantly higher than in the current rules. Finally, the Enhedslisten estimates that up to half of the accompanying staff can be provided by unskilled staff and the assumption is somewhat questionable. For the proposal includes social pedagogy support for accompanying and I believe that the Enhedslisten proposal is clearly contradictory on that very point. When the Enhedslisten in the economic assessments in the comments to the motion for a resolution considers that the task can be carried out by unskilled staff, it is in no way related to the fact that Enhedslisten elsewhere in the comments to the proposal writes that the target group needs specially qualified companions and trained staff to follow the residents. The total cost may therefore be significantly higher than the 150-200 million. DKK, based on Enhedslisten. It is also considered that the Enhedslisten proposal for financing the proposal by a 5% reduction. State expenditure on consultancy services is inappropriate. The State typically buys consultants for services which would otherwise have to be solved by permanent labour, and if not hired, for example. IT consultants, the state will continue to have a cost of precisely those tasks too. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that, of course, I also take very seriously the issue of the needs of the target group for accompanying measures and have taken a number of initiatives to keep the municipalities committed to their duties in this area. And then, of course, I would also like to remind the Enhedslisten that the motion for a resolution may involve deterioration for the individual and that the proposal is under-funded. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181628	Then there is a brief comment first from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181634	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a long and thorough speech. I would like to come back to the point of principle which the Minister is also addressing here, namely that the municipalities can today, of course, that is what is real today, as a result of the way in which we have screwed up the service law: the municipalities have a duty in principle, but no lower limit has been defined as to what it is for an escort to be provided. So we see a situation in which, in some municipalities, the fact arises that for citizens who have developmental impairment or brain damage or any other disability that makes them need social educational assistance in order to get out, there is no one to help them. And there is the question of principle: will we leave that decision to the municipalities? I believe that when it comes to whether, as a citizen, you have the opportunity to be a part of society, i.e. whether you can participate in activities outside the place where you live, it is so in principle that it should be described in the Services Act that you have a minimum right to do so. And I really would like the Minister to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181751	But we are actually in complete agreement that people who need to be accompanied must be accompanied, and so the municipalities are obliged to provide for that. As I said, the KL itself has been looking into the matter, and there are 12 municipalities that have reported that it is at least unclear, as Mrs Stine Brix also says, whether they are accompanying them. After I wrote to the municipalities, KL has asked the municipalities concerned, and they have also returned, as I said in my speech, and have said that they offer escorts. I think that somewhere is a matter of due diligence, and it also shows that the municipalities, as I do, of course, and just as the rapporteur does, take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181835	Mrs Stine Brix for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181839	I have to say that I do not entirely share the Minister's optimism, because what we hear every day is that it is not the reality around for any of the citizens we are talking about here. It is possible that there may be a trip out of the house once a year, but today you do not have any rights to which you as a citizen can adhere, i.e. a minimum of opportunities to participate in activities. It is unclear what you have of rights when you are in this situation, and that is the relationship with which I ask the Minister to address himself. After all, we have signed up to the UN Disability Convention, which has as a clear basis that citizens with disabilities must be able to participate in society on an equal footing with the rest of us. And there is this point about the possibility of being able to participate in activities other than where you live, of course, absolutely crucial to being part of society. So I actually believe that we should take responsibility here in the Folketing and describe how low we have to go in the municipalities, i.e. what minimum rights we can expect as a citizen with the need for social educational assistance to be able to enter society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519181945	In fact, I can easily understand Mrs Stine Brix's premise. I just do not think that the proposal will change that premise. It is quite true that we also have to live up to the conventions, but it already says that the municipalities must fulfil their obligations. That would not be changed by introducing the Enhedslisten's proposal. Apart from the fact that it is underfunded, it will still be a matter of trust, for example. If you got that right by the 15 hours. But another premise, which I also think is important to look at, is, as I said, the flexibility in which it is the municipalities that know where the shoe is pulling. It is they who are experts and, of course, it must also be taken into account when looking at this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182033	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182038	The minister says that the municipalities can provide this service. But I also hear that otherwise the Minister must correct me that the Minister says that the municipalities do not provide the service satisfactorily. The Minister must of course think so, since the Minister will follow up on this and say that he will hold the municipalities to their task. But does the Minister not recognise that we have challenges in this area? We see that every summer. We saw it with Sølund Musik Festival, and we see it in relation to the opportunity to go on holiday. So I would really like to hear what the Minister is going to do in the future in order to ensure that we also get the help we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182125	When I said that it was not satisfactory, I actually referred to the study carried out by KL, where 12 municipalities did not report back whether they had a service level. They've done that since I wrote to them, of course. And the fact that I wrote to them, and the fact that I am in dialogue with KL, is, in fact, an expression that we are following this area very, very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182147	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182151	It is a bit ambivalent because the Minister recognises that there are challenges in this area and says that there is a discussion with the KL, but there is no action to follow. There are some municipalities that may not be following up on this. What happens next? What happens if you do not get the help you need if you do not get escorts, as the minister says the municipality can and how do we get the legislation corrected, so that we stop the municipalities from providing the services that citizens need?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182231	Of course, the municipalities must fulfil their obligations; that is clear. Fortunately, it is also the case that, as a citizen, you can always complain to the Ankestyrelsen, as the rapporteur knows, of course. But this is about more than that. It is a matter of our having local authority autonomy. This is about the municipalities having obligations. It is also about the fact that there are very different levels in the different municipalities. Therefore, there are also various opportunities to take up your case if you are disabled. I also think that there is one detail that the rapporteur is also just forgetting, and that is that it is a proposal which is rather underfunded, and that, of course, also needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182311	Thank you to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Then it is Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen, as rapporteur on the Left, who is beginning the series of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182325	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has tabled this motion for a resolution on accompanying measures for the disabled. The Left, of course, I would have said, has a great deal of sympathy for the proposal because as a person with disabilities people are forced to live with certain limitations. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that these restrictions are as few as possible, because everyone, regardless of the degree of disability, has the right to a life with an impact on their own situation and to active opt-outs. That is also why, at the end of our financial bill for 2015, the Left proposed that we want to do something for this population group and therefore succeeded in the pool negotiations to fight in a pool, and it came to almost 40 million. kr. It was a good day, a good debate, a long debate. However, it was really useful that we realised that there was an amount to work with, because we thought that with the pot of almost 40 million. kr. many more disabled people will have the opportunity to accompany them to events and on vacations. We would have liked the pot to be bigger. It's all about priorities. We think that we came a very good way with that pool of rates and we would like to pride ourselves on the fact that it was the Left that put it on the agenda. I would like to say that, although sympathy is great, we believe that this proposal has not been calculated thoroughly enough and we also believe that it is almost similar to some of what we have negotiated in the pool of rates negotiations. In any case, it would be very, very natural to negotiate in wage-pool negotiations. That is why we believe that it should be there at the moment and not anywhere else. So in these words the Left will not support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182527	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182531	Thank you to the Left, at least thank you for recognising that there is a problem. It can be said that the solution that the Left helped to create in the pool of rates does not solve the fundamental problem, namely that the citizens who need social education assistance in order to be able to get out have no rights to ensure that they do. They depend on their municipality to seek and receive a share of the money, and it is, as you know, with the rate pool that it is some temporary appropriations that fall away again. So I do not really understand why the Left is not more seriously committed to finding a lasting solution which would guarantee these citizens, whom we must say are some of the weakest in our society, a fundamental right, namely the right to live an active life, even outside the place where they live on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182620	We think we should have tried how far we could go, and we got very, very far, with nearly 40 million being set aside. kr. We are aware that this is always a priority, but our confidence in the municipalities is also huge. And it will certainly be helped on the way when we get a reply from the Minister that there has been a return response from the last ones, where doubts were expressed as to the level of service offered and that it is clearly described what level of service they have. Then our trust in the municipalities is actually in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182652	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182655	Somehow it is interesting in itself that the confidence of the Left in the Minister's reply and in the municipalities is so great that it is now felt that this problem has been resolved. In fact, I would like the Left to listen a little more to the organisations in this area, for example. LEV, who represents the relatives, or ULF, who represent some of the users, or that they talked to some of the citizens it is really about, and some of the relatives. Because then the story is a hero, completely different. There is history that it is not the case that the problem has been solved and that you have clear rights in relation to getting out. So perhaps the Left should turn down the confidence that things are just fine when the municipalities say they are, and when the minister says it is okay, then try to see if we could create lasting solutions and clear rights for citizens in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182740	I know it's unfair to ask a counter-question. But I would like to know how much the Enhedslisten has negotiated with the government for which it has been a parliamentary basis. Why haven't you been pressing for your wishes for these four years? Because it is easy to take a little payment for the government's support in the policy it wants to pursue. I am very surprised that one chooses to come down here in Parliament and stand a little alone with his things and so weave around a little. So we're thinking, why hasn't the cat spent their 4 years working this through? Because if it were such a heartfelt wish, you would have done what you could.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182821	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519182833	Thank you for the floor. Our social rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, is unfortunately prevented from attending today's debate on B 113, and that is why, on behalf of her, I shall read out the rapporteur's speech. People with disabilities must have the same rights and opportunities to exploit their potential as all sorts of others. It must not prevent a person from participating in society, that he was born with a disability, or that the disabled might have come in the course of life. We are in complete agreement with Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) and, by the way, with the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, I assume that when you, as a person with disabilities, need to be accompanied, you must of course have it. That goes without saying. The motion for a resolution we are debating today concerns the extension of the accompanying measures which citizens with significant and lasting physical or mental impairments can obtain under Article 45 and Article 97 of the Services Act. Enlargement consists of two elements. The first element is that the target group is proposed to be extended to the less developed, the brain-damaged and other citizens with significant cognitive difficulties. The second element is about the type of escort. Today, the accompanying scheme in § 45 and § 97 does not contain social pedagogical assistance, but only accompanying activities of which the citizen himself determines the content. The motion for a resolution proposes extending the scheme to include social pedagogic support. When Enhedslisten now presents this motion for a resolution, does this mean that the citizens who are proposed to be placed under the accompanying scheme in section 45 and section 97 of the Service Act are not offered any kind of escort? No, thankfully not. Social pedagogical support is already a core service which the municipalities must offer to those of their citizens who need it. Instead of starting to introduce more or less rigid rules, we believe that it is better to point out to the municipalities what obligations they already have. Because, according to section 85 of the Services Act, the municipalities already have an obligation to offer social pedagogical support to the target group for this resolution. We are therefore pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs has reminded the municipalities of their duties, because we must, of course, keep the municipalities responsible in this area. I will not begin to go into the whole part of the financing of the proposal here. Instead, I would just like to say that I am pleased that, in the context of the 2015 Rate Pool Agreement, we have allocated 39.4 million. kr. over 3 years to an application pool to develop how municipalities offer accompanying and activities for adults. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that we have a great deal of sympathy for the intention behind the Enhedslisten's proposal, but even if we do, for the reasons I have mentioned, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183122	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183131	Thank you. This motion for a resolution is about requiring the government to amend Articles 45 and 97 of the Services Act on accompanying schemes by the end of 2015, so that the accompanying document also includes social pedagogy assistance. Citizens with significant and lasting physical or mental impairments between the ages of 12 and 67 years are entitled to 15 hours of extra-family escorts per month, according to Section 45 of the Services Act and Section 97 of the Services Act. However, this does not apply to the disabled, the brain-damaged and others with considerable cognitive difficulties, who need social pedagogy assistance and therefore a specially qualified companion who also knows the person. In the Danish People's Party we think it is important that people who for one reason or another need social pedagogical support for activities or other things also get it. And we can understand the desire that it is someone who also knows your needs, your desires and your challenges... someone you're comfortable with. It can, for example, be done. be a member of the staff employed in the accommodation offer where you live. There are challenges in this area, and these are also some of the challenges we have repeatedly raised with the government, including in consultation and through several questions to the Minister. On 16 January 2014 the National Association of Municipalities has written to the municipalities of the country that it is not allowed to charge citizens to cover expenses that go to provide social pedagogy assistance under Section 85 of the Services Act. The letter clarifies that there is no legal basis for providing additional services to citizens. In part of the country's municipalities, citizens have to varying degrees paid the staff's accompanying costs in connection with holidays and excursions etc. As this is about the level of service provided by the municipalities, there are often a number of challenges in terms of which help can be obtained, and it often depends on where you live. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations has clarified that under the Service Act there is no legal requirement to go on holiday, but that the municipality can choose for itself whether their service level involves offering educational accompanying services on holiday. In the Danish People's Party we want to help find solutions. What is good, then, is that some funds were set aside under the pool of rates. A total of 39.4 million was allocated. kr. to activities and accompanying activities for people with disabilities, and it was a broad conciliation circle which I think has a great desire to help that group. The Danish People's Party is therefore prepared to discuss this and find a viable solution for the target group. The Enhedslisten proposes that funding be made by saving 5 per cent. the total consumption by the State of consultants. At the same time, we in the Danish People's Party would like to encourage the Minister to enter into a dialogue with relevant parties to find solutions in the area • among other things. the LEV organisation so that the Minister can hear their opinions and opinions, also about the challenges in this area. For the challenges we see especially every summer, and I think we see them this summer again. But we look forward to the committee reading and then hope that the Minister is prepared to find some viable solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183506	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183515	Thank you. Developers are part of our society. They must be able to participate and participate. They shall not be stored or isolated. That is why it is important that they can be accompanied to get out. I therefore agree with the authors of the motion that people who need to be accompanied should be able to do so. I can also follow Enhedslisten's idea that it seems quite straightforward to demand 15 hours of escorting per person. month for children from 12 years of age and for adults with significant and lasting impairment of physical or mental function. Then you're like sure everyone gets it. But just as much as it does bring about uniformity, it is contrary to a fundamental principle for me. I think that in order to treat all alike, we must treat each other differently, because people who are less developed are not the same. They may be as different as we are, and that is why I think it makes sense that the rules today offer flexible opportunities to organise aid to suit the individual. Sometimes it is also as if it counts more when we place the cut in here at Christiansborg, but the municipal politicians have as much responsibility as we have here in the Folketing. And things are not necessarily improved by the fact that we in the Folketing are tying the money in a certain way. Some municipalities are already doing so, and it is not certain that a standardized scheme would be better for them. So, although it is fascinating to put the cut in here from Christiansborg, I think it is better that the law takes into account that people are not the same and that the municipality has the opportunity to offer both collective and individual educational companionship. It must be those who are close who decide how to do it best. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183710	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183715	I understand the argument put forward by Mrs Lotte Rod that it would be inflexible to have a standardised system and that it cannot be adapted to the citizens. The problem with Mrs Lotte Rod's argument is that it is not true. Because it is not a matter of having 15 hours of companionship and having to be given in a certain way. That is simply not true. It is the case today, with the accompanying system, that it is a minimum. Of course, the municipality can choose to provide more companionship if you think it is a good idea. It is also the case today, with the accompanying scheme, that you can choose to save it up and, for example, save it up. use it, as Mrs Lotte Rod says, with 30 hours in 2 months or 90 hours over less time. So there's flexibility built into this. What the proposal is about is ensuring that we remove the flexibility that some municipalities are using today to say that there are zero hours of escorts. I think that is actually going in and protecting a group of citizens who have very little chance of shouting themselves when the municipalities choose to cut back on them, what we unfortunately see.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183822	I can easily follow the rapporteur's view that it would be nice to say: okay, we are making such a safety net where we are sure that this is a minimum. What is merely the problem of setting minimum standards is that they tend to be maximum, that is to say, that it stays there, that is to say, the cut, and that it becomes standardisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183838	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183841	That is simply not true. After all, we have class ratios at all sorts of different levels around Denmark, because the municipalities have the flexibility that they can place a class quotient below the ceiling we have set by the Danish Parliament. It'll be flexible in the same way in this context, i.e. an opportunity to give this area even more priority if you want to. What is real today, when there is no lower floor, is that you see situations where some municipalities choose to say: we do not give it any priority at all. And then, in practice, this is what Mrs Lotte Rod started by saying that she did not want to have, namely the incarceration and retention of a group of citizens who have no rights they can rely on in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183922	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519183925	It is not so long ago that we had a matter of a price ceiling which was meant very well and where we would try to say that you did not have to pay more than a certain amount, which then turned out to be the standard. So I am really concerned that what you have good intentions will end up being locked up. And that's why I'd like to insist on 'cause I think we kind of agree that this is all about prioritising it in the municipalities. It is not certain that there will necessarily be more funds and that we will do it better by dictating from in here how to do it. That is why I think it has been right for the Minister to have gone into it and followed up the places where people were concerned that the rules were simply not followed and that people are being called on to vote for the local politicians who take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184015	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184023	With this proposal, the proposers will require the government to amend the Services Act on Accompanying Arrangements by 2015 so that the scheme will also include social pedagogy assistance. In the SF's view, that proposal is very sympathetic and it draws attention to a problem we have in this area. However, the proposal then seems to us to be financially unsustainable, and we believe that it could be difficult to secure the money by the end of 2015. We also believe that it is a little uncertain whether the declared expenditure actually stands up to believers and we as a party have difficulty in supporting the proposal in its present form. Having said that, it is neither fair nor fair that there is so much difference between municipalities in terms of the possibility of accompanying citizens who need social education accompanying them. In some municipalities the level of service is simply too low. The fact that citizens do not come out because the municipality does not provide social education accompanying services is obviously neither optimal nor acceptable. In the SF, we believe that all citizens should have the right to come out, and we believe, as I said, that the scheme must be sustainable and financed. SF recognises the problem that Enhedslisten, with the motion for a resolution here, points out, namely that in several municipalities there is an excessively low level of service. It is, of course, a discussion that we have had repeatedly in various areas of the Socialist Group and also in this Chamber. Unfortunately, we do not think that it would be realistic to find at least 200 million on this specific point. kr. to the end of 2015, and we are actually also sceptical about, as I said before, whether that is enough. However, we would very much like to discuss how to ensure that all citizens who need to be accompanied also have the opportunity to do so. We would also very much like to discuss how we will have a more uniform and more solid service level across the municipalities in Denmark. We therefore hope that Enhedslisten's proposal can be the starting point for such a thorough discussion both of the municipal service level in general and of the accompanying models specifically, so that we find a long-term and substantiated model.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184229	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184237	With this motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten wishes to require the government to amend by the end of 2015 sections 45 and 97 of the Services Act on accompanying schemes, so that the accompanying document also includes social pedagogical assistance for the disabled. The proposal gives people who are cognitively disabled the right to 15 hours of extra-home companionship in line with people today who have physical impairments. The Enhedslisten wishes to make this a citizen's right and states that the proposal will cost approx. 200 million kr., which Enhedslisten wants to find by cutting into the state's use of consultants. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, we are concerned that our weakest fellow citizens will receive the help and support they need. However, we are concerned about introducing another civil right and another legal requirement that will increase public spending. Help for the individual disabled must be organized on the basis of a concrete assessment of needs and conditions and, as the Services Act states, the aim of the effort must be to improve the social and personal functioning of the individual as well as development opportunities and to improve opportunities for the individual's manifestation of life through contact, offers of association, activity, treatment, care and care. Finally, in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that it is the responsibility of individual municipalities to give priority, provided that the Services Act is complied with. The Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184411	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Daniel Rugholm as rapporteur for Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184423	Thank you. As the Conservative rapporteur, Tom Behnke, cannot be present, I have promised to make his speech. The Conservative People's Party is in favour of the ideas contained in the resolution. We agree that the group of persons entitled to the accompanying scheme should be extended to the disabled, the brain-damaged and others with the need for social pedagogy assistance and thus a separate qualified companion who knows the person. What is important must be the need and not the diagnosis that has been given. If the need is there, the possibility of accompanying arrangements should also be there. However, we do not agree with the funding proposed by the proposers. The proposal must be financed. It is essential for the Conservative People's Party that funding is available and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184506	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519184516	Thank you. And first of all, thank you to Parliament's parties for the debate. We are talking about a trip to the hairdresser or a trip to a family birthday, perhaps a trip to the festival, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur mentioned. I think these are things that most of us sitting here take for granted that we can do when we want to do so. But if you have a disability, it's not always like that. Then you can be addicted to being accompanied to it. It is therefore the case today that citizens who have a physical or mental disability and who are 12 to 67 years of age can receive at least 15 hours of support outside the home per month. But it is also the case that if you have a evolutionary disability or if you are suffering from brain damage or for any other reason need social pedagogy assistance, then you are excluded from that scheme. Then you typically need help from the trained staff who are at the residence where you live or from someone who knows you very well. The possibility of getting out, for example. participate in Sølundfestival or go to birthday is so completely dependent on whether the settlement has the resources to follow the resident off for activities. As several people have mentioned today, the National Association of Municipalities examined this back in the autumn, and the study showed that there were actually quite a few municipalities that did not have a service level in this area. It also showed that many municipalities had a very low level of service. For me, this shows that there is a very good reason to discuss how to safeguard this group of citizens' rights. It is also a story that I have heard, and I think many of you others have heard, from citizens, relatives and the educators who work in this area. As recently as today, for example, I got... a message on my Facebook page from Pia Nørgaard, who has a 19-year-old daughter who is difficult to develop. She wrote that her daughter has been offered a residence where there will be no activities on weekends and holidays, as there are only two staff to seven very severely disabled. Pia Nørgaard thinks that it will be a nursing home for young people on whom her daughter will live from the age of 19, and she is understandably concerned that her daughter will be both lonely and isolated. The message she has received is that it is the norm in Aarhus Municipality, and that it is politically determined, and she says that she does not think it is right. Another commenting on my facebook page was social educator Nina Eggiussen, and she wrote that she no longer has the opportunity to go with a resident on the beach and buy an ice cream if it is hot one day. There is also no Christmas tour anymore, as you had before, where you went out and ate Christmas lunch and bought presents for the family, so that the individual citizen had the opportunity to buy gifts. These are things that cannot be done. That is why, with this proposal, we want to guarantee fundamental rights, namely the right to have at least 15 hours of support per month, at least, if you need social pedagogy assistance. The idea is, of course, that all citizens will have an opportunity to take an active part in society, even if you have a disability that requires support. It is the case that if you are under development or suffering damage to your brain, we must say that you belong to a group in society which is among the weakest and which may also have the most difficulty in shouting, demanding its rights, fighting with the municipality to allocate resources to the area. I also think that this is something so fundamental: the right to be able to go out and participate in activities, to be social, to join together, that it should be a citizen's right and we should ensure it. And I also think, as I said in the debate, that this is a very clear extension of the disability convention that we have, which specifically addresses the need for people with disabilities to be able to be part of society on an equal footing with others. So it should not be depending on which municipality you live in and what financial framework there is in that municipality we know, there are some municipalities that are so pressured that they actually have a lot, very difficult to prioritize it. It should be an opportunity you have, no matter where you live in the country. Will this then mean user charges for citizens? as the Minister asks. No, it won't. As the Minister himself has said, it is the case that you have expenses in connection with your escort if you like. you will have to pay a movie ticket for the companion • you can get a refund of up to DKK 837. a year. So there's some room for manoeuvre. If you want to look at it, make it room for manoeuvre, we would like to take part in it. It is also the case, as several speakers have said, that we estimate the cost of this proposal for some 150 to 200 million. kr., and we suggest that we find the money by saving on the state's total consumption of consultants. That consumption is currently around 3.5 billion. kr. a year, and it is not so difficult to budget with it for 2016. It's just about working it into the Finance Act for the coming year. There is, in fact, a considerable amount of savings to be made by using some of the staff employed in the state rather than buying consultants from outside, which is quite much more expensive. I also think you could manage with a little less reports than you get today. In any case, when we talk about priorities, I think that this would be a very sensible priority in this context. I also think it is worthwhile to bear in mind that if the problem is perhaps not as great as it was in the past, as the Minister suggests, then perhaps the cost is not so unbearable that we could not find a solution to it. I think that both the Danish People's Party and the SF have been very constructive in this debate, and I hope that we can work together to try to push this debate further forward. I think that Mrs Karina Adsbøl's proposal was excellent in trying to gather for a meeting with all the players who have a share in this area. It could be the National Association of the Developers, it could be the LEV, it could be the Social Pedagogues and others. In any case, I would very much like to take part in this. We are also prepared, as Mrs Trine Mach suggested, to look at whether the proposal could be further qualified, both on the economic side and, of course, on the content side. What I think is so important is that we take this issue seriously. To me, it is not a problem that has been solved. It is a huge, huge challenge, it is a huge potential violation of those people who do not have clear rights in this area. So in those words I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185219	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185223	Yes, thank you to Enhedslisten, who is raising this important debate. After all, we have received a great many requests from the people with disabilities who want to pay for themselves, and there we can also see that there may be some challenges, by means of more funds, that they may be able to pay for escorts, while those with fewer funds cannot get any escorts. But let's say you got a limit of 15 hours and then you had to make some purchases. What does Enhedslisten think about that? It could be, like you have it in the Service Act, where you can buy extra cleaning from a private company. What is Enhedslisten's position on this whole issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185312	It is quite true, as the rapporteur says, that for some time there was the fact that the municipalities illegally charged user charges in this area. Fortunately, this has been stopped, because in principle, on paper it is the municipalities that have to deliver in this area. They just don't do it. So we have gone from a situation where we saw before that the municipalities actually took care of the citizens in this area, to the fact that we now have a situation where, at least in some contexts, it is the case that you just do not deliver in the area you have to. Where I think we are going is where we originally had the idea that ours, what should we say, social educational services should be such that it is, of course, a natural integral part of the offer that you get. What we are proposing here is that an absolute minimum be laid for how poor it must become, so to speak. I am not in favour of buying models, nor am I in favour of user charges in these areas. I believe that these are basic rights which should naturally be expected in a society such as the Danish one, so that all citizens have a very real right to be able to participate in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185421	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185424	As a starting point, I agree with this: the municipalities have to provide this service, and they have not lived up to it, and they have also demanded user charges for it. However, I also recognise from all the requests I have received from the devel opers who are standing and have, it can be said, the means also to be able to pay a companion to go on vacation for a week, if that is what they want, then perhaps they cannot be allowed to do so. I also recognise that this balancing approach is difficult. But this is perhaps something that we can discuss in the further work, in other words how we can best accommodate all parties in the best way possible, so that both those who do not have the funds can, and those who want to, and who have a large bank book, also in one way or another, have the opportunity to buy a companion for a week, if that is what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185518	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185520	I think it is important to stick to the principle that if you have a disability, you should not be particularly burdened with it financially. It is, of course, the principle that is at least the basic idea of our disability legislation that we go in and compensate, so you have an opportunity to live a life on an equal footing with others. That is why I do not think we should be able to pay either for our treatment or for our companionship or for other services that we need to be able to live an active life on an equal footing with others. But, of course, we would like to discuss all the options that might be relevant in this context, so let's talk about it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185602	Thank you to the rapporteur. I need to know if the Minister for Social Affairs wishes to speak here. No, he doesn't. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185624	The debate is open. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs who was just ready this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519185644	Thank you, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten will require the government to put forward legislative proposals to amend the services legislation's accompanying arrangements for children and adults so that, firstly, it will be possible to save up accompanying hours for a full year, which can be applied at once. Secondly, the proposal provides for automatic payment of the annual allowance for incidental expenditure of DKr 837. Thirdly, the right to accompany must be reduced from 12 years to 7 years. As with the previous proposal, the government like Enhedslisten is also very concerned to ensure that people with disabilities are offered as active and independent a life as possible. However, as there is unfinanced expenditure associated with all three elements of the proposal, and as there are also elements that run counter to the original objectives of the accompanying arrangements, the government cannot support this proposal. I would like to review the three elements, one at a time, and explain why the government believes that there are unfunded additional costs associated with all three elements. I would also like to explain why the government believes that parts of the proposal do not accord with the purpose of accompanying schemes. Today people with disabilities who are searched for the accompanying scheme can save up to 90 hours together within 1⁄2 years. An increased opportunity for savings to be used at once would be contrary to the main purpose of the accompanying arrangements. They are intended to help in everyday life and to ensure that children and young people and adults, for example. can participate in a local leisure activity, participate in birthdays or get help to go to the cinema, i.e. activities that usually last a few hours. The citizen, who is searched for companionship, already has free choice today, in terms of how he or she will use the scheme, including whether you want to save your hours together for a weekend in the cottage or go to the festival or the like. For me, it is at the heart of the accompanying scheme that it helps to ensure that the citizen has an active day-to-day life outside the home, and that will not be possible if all the hours are saved for an annual holiday. In addition, we expect that an opportunity to save up to 100 hours in one year will lead to more accompanying hours being spent, and therefore the cost of the scheme will increase. This expectation is based on a small study of the use of the accompanying scheme by four municipalities carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs last year. It showed that the average monthly hourly rates for most users of the scheme are lower than 15 hours. The study does not explain why the scheme is not being used to the maximum extent, but it must be assumed that not all citizens need 15 hours of monthly escorts. If it becomes possible to save up to 180 hours in one year, it can be assumed that more citizens will use the scheme to a greater extent than they do today, as they saw, for example. can go on a longer vacation. Therefore, increasing the possibility of saving hours is likely to involve higher costs for the scheme. In fact, the costs will have to cover both additional accompanying hours as well as travel and subsistence expenses for the escorts. I would now like to turn to that part of the proposal for automatic payment of the annual grant. Today, additional costs are likely to be paid on application to cover the accompanying person's transport and other activities. A maximum of DKK 837 can be covered. per year, and Enhedslisten considers that there will be an administrative saving by automatically paying the annual amount to all, regardless of whether or not they are likely to be additional costs and whether or not they have been applied for. There may be an administrative saving if such an automatic payment is introduced, but at the same time the automatic payment is likely to result in overcompensation for some citizens, as not everyone with accompanying schemes is receiving subsidies today. There are accompanying activities which do not cost anything, for example. a walk in the woods or help to get the deal in. I do not think it is fair to have to pay public aid for this. I will also go through the last element of the proposal to reduce the age limit. My ministry has in connection with the reply to an alm. It was estimated that the reduction in the age limit from 12 years to 7 years would cost 2.5 million. kr. a year. In the proposal, Enhedslisten describes the 2.5 million. kr. as modest extra costs, and this may be an assessment that is real enough, but the money must be found if necessary, and Enhedslisten has not pointed out where the money is to be found. In addition, I would also like to question whether, for example, we are going to be able to do so. children at 7 years of age will be safe and want to be accompanied by someone who is not close. Today, the aim of the scheme is for children and young people who need to be outside the home to be able to do so without parents accompanying them or otherwise managing the scheme for them. It is therefore older children who need to be able to create a youth life independently without the family having to be on the sidelines. I do not think the same applies to the target group of children aged between 7 and 11. And so I think that it is the family or other close relatives who must provide the necessary support for this group, as is the case for children without disabilities. In addition, the activities to which the child or young person wishes to be accompanied must today be of his choice. I doubt that would make sense for the 7-11 year olds. Finally, I would like to stress that it is very important for the government that people with disabilities have the opportunity to live as actively as possible a life as possible, but again, as there is unfinanced expenditure associated with all three elements of the proposal, and, furthermore, as there are elements that are contrary to the main purpose of the accompanying scheme, the government cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190244	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190250	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for another thorough examination. I would like to address the last point, which concerns the possibility for children to be accompanied, i.e. to lower the age limit from 12 to 7 years. The minister said that small children do not have the same need for an independent life as when you are 12 years old. I simply do not agree with that interpretation. I very much believe that children between 7 and 11 years of age also need, for example. to be able to go with a playmate without the parents, or to go to scouts or to go to choirs in order to try to be a little on their own. All other children at that age do that very much, and what the consequence is for these children, when they do not have the same opportunity, is that they start their school life as isolated from the others, because the consequence is that they are not going in the same way. So I understand that we need to find the money for it, but I simply do not understand the need for the Minister to reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190353	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190356	Funny enough, that is exactly the point with which I disagree most. One can only draw on one's own experience and, of course, also the experiences and what one hears around. With my three children it has been the case that when they have been in that age group, it is true, as the rapporteur says, that it is a start to explore life, but they were followed. Well, at 7 years of age being accompanied by an alien human being is by no means optimal. I don't think it is. So I really disagree. And yes, I hope that is the answer. I very, very disagree exactly on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190435	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190438	Then may I not elaborate on what it is that companionship is all about in this context, because it is not just about being followed to a children's birthday or to a scout, it is of course about someone around you all the time who can help you with, for example. to go to the toilet, which can help you get dressed or on, which can help you with all the basic things that you are not able to even due to a disability. And yes, the need, the need to be in a space where your parents are not with all the time, has children between the ages of 7 and 11, also like 12-year-old children. I got, for example. a request today from a mother who has a daughter of 7 years of autism, who described that she had not thought at all, and that it was quite liberating to think that her daughter could also participate in some of the activities that they cannot participate in today, because parents cannot just take time off from attending a family birthday, which may be just after school. So I simply do not agree with the Minister's assessment of whether or not there is a need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190529	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190531	Well, the scheme is also based on the fact that these children are also on their way to youth and need a youth life without the family being on the sidelines. And that is why I think it makes quite good sense to have the age limit as there is and that it should not apply to children as young as seven years. But that is where we disagree, and that is how it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190556	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister, and that is the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190612	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution on improved accompanying arrangements for children and adults with disabilities. It is just before that it is the same rapporteur's speech that I have just given, but not quite. It is the case that we have been watching a lot and we have had many meetings with the areas affected. It's both ULF and it's LEV. We have discussed the situation and we have an approach to their description of the issues. However, when this proposal lies, it is of course surprising that no in-depth economic calculation has been made. Although there is a lot of sympathy to see, it is a mixed country trade. So, Enhedslisten wants you to be able to save 180 accompanying hours together and thus have the opportunity to travel. I think it's exciting, enticing. The problem is just: does that mean that you have to sit at home and wait, and then you can take one centimeter and cut off one centimeter for every day that goes by to make sure that you have spoken correctly, and then you can finally get out to travel. I think that's a sad way to look at it. Is there a need? Yes, says Enhedslisten, for the 7-11-year-olds to have the opportunity. If I had to draw in an example of my own, I would say that in my son's class we also had a lovely boy who needed companionship, and he had absolutely the most joy that it was his own family who was with him when we had the children's birthday days, and it worked 100% fantastic. So I can say that it may be just one example, but I think we have most of the family examples, versus some individuals having a need. I therefore believe that the municipalities, in cooperation with a single individual assessment, can help to find a solution to this problem. So I feel like now, since there is no precise economic impact on the resolution, that it is therefore part of a negotiation in the rate pool, because it is something about money, this is finance, and then we have to get into the rate pool and have the discussions on this matter, this problem I don't know if I should call it "but this wish," I would say. So I think I need a clearer wording from the Enhedslisten, and as long as it is not there I cannot negotiate on money that does not exist, then I have to say on behalf of the Left that we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190913	Mrs Stine Brix, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519190916	I would like to address the issue of giving it the opportunity to save your companionship. It is the case today that you are entitled to 15 hours of monthly escorts if you are searched for these schemes and that you can save 90 hours if you want to gather together. Then the rapporteur of the Left asks whether you should sit there and gather and wait. The point of this proposal is that you can choose for yourself. You cannot choose that for yourself today, and in fact there is a group of citizens who want to do so. They'd rather save up to get off on a week's vacation than have an hour here and an hour there. All this proposal proposes is to give citizens the opportunity to scrape together a few more of the hours they are already entitled to in advance so that they can take on, for example. A week's vacation, which is an opportunity they don't have today at all. It is freedom, of course, and it is flexibility for the citizens. I do not understand why, in a party like the Left, which otherwise looks up to be a party in favour of freedom, one cannot see at all the huge advantage it will be for citizens to be able to have the option that they do not have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191023	I will be more fair than I was in relation to the last resolution and then ask my question now, because then Enhedslisten can answer. Why hasn't Enhedslisten spent his 4 years fighting this into the government's decision-making stock and getting the government to give in and do these things that Enhedslisten wants so badly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191045	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191047	Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen is welcome to ask me questions when I stand on the platform. That's how we usually do it. Now it is Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen who is up there and I ask questions, but I can say very briefly: we have fought for the area of disabled people in many areas, and we have also succeeded in getting a lot of things through. But there are always things we can tackle and things we should tackle, such as Parliament. It is actually a relatively new realization for me that this could be a huge advantage for some of the citizens who want to save time together, and for me it cannot be a great expense when it is a right that you already have. So why can't the Left help to give citizens the opportunity to save more hours together than we can today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191129	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191131	We are very inspired by other solutions, for example, we are very inspired by Horsens, where you have a texting system. Here you say you want to go to football, and then there is a young student who says he can bring you along. The end result is that a disabled person has been a tour of the football match and that a young person has had a good few hours, because he had to go anyway, and it has not cost the municipality a penny. And that still leaves your full book with 15 hours in that month. I think we should be careful not to lock ourselves down. I think we are going to think much more exciting and much more broadly, I think we are going to be much more flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191213	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191226	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, our social rapporteur is prevented from taking part in the debate on B 115 today, which is why I will read our rapporteur's speech on behalf of her. This resolution deals with the same subject as the previous one, and I would like to make it clear once again that it is very important to the Socialists that people with disabilities should have the same opportunities to realise their potential as all possible others. These are some of the people most in need of help from the community, and that is why, of course, we also have a particularly great obligation to ensure that they receive help. We therefore fully agree with the intention behind the motion for a resolution, namely that people with disabilities should receive the support they need. This is among other things. That is why, as late as the autumn, we have set aside nearly 40 million in the pool negotiations. kr. to a pool that municipalities can apply for to launch, repair and test initiatives aimed at precisely association and activities for people with disabilities. But let me now turn to the specific motion for a resolution which contains three parts. Firstly, it must be possible to save up accompanying hours for a whole year, as opposed to the six months that it is today. Secondly, the annual grant for incidental expenses of DKK 837 must be paid. is paid automatically and not as today on request. Thirdly, the age limit for the right to accompany must be reduced from 12 to 7 years. I do not want to repeat here the objections to the economy of the proposal already put forward by the Minister, but I will confine myself to a few comments on the first part of the proposal on savings. We share the Minister's concern that an extension of the savings option risks going against the purpose of the accompanying arrangements in section 45 and section 97 of the Services Act. Companionship is intended to help in everyday life, not on vacations. If you need help on vacations and people with disabilities must of course also have the opportunity to go on vacation. If we create a system in which we save our everyday companionship for a holiday instead, we risk having no more companionship in everyday life, and that is not appropriate. So, although we share the intention behind the proposal, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191444	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191450	Thank you. This resolution is about improving the accompanying arrangements for children and adults with disabilities, including making it possible to save up to 180 hours together for a total use and reducing the age limit for the right to accompany them from 12 to 7 years. In 2012, the rates pool parties extended the support scheme for young people between 16 and 18 years of age who, due to significant and lasting reduced physical or mental capacity, cannot travel alone to children and young people between 12 and 15 years of age. We did so precisely with the aim of giving children and young people within the target group the opportunity to participate in self-chosen activities outside the home without always having to ask their parents for help, thereby giving them increased opportunities to live a youth life on an equal footing with other children and young people. The proposal we adopted was intended to contribute to the inclusion in the society of children and young people with disabilities and to help this group become more independent and independent of the help of their parents. In the Danish People's Party we would like to see how we find even better solutions, and we also made this clear in the Ministry when we were invited to discuss the adult provisions of the Service Act, which have now been laid down. In the past, we have had funds allocated to a disability policy think tank. According to the plan, the work of the think tank should lead to a strategy for promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities through new, sustainable and long-lasting alliances and cooperation between and around civil society actors. I do not know how far the work is now, as it has been postponed, but it is also interesting to see what comes out of it. In the Danish People's Party, we consider it important that the players in the field are involved and can also help to give priority to how the funds available are spent in the field of disability and how they can be used in the best possible way. The motion for a resolution states that there is no cost involved in making the savings rules of the accompanying scheme more flexible than is currently the case, and that there will probably also be savings to be made by paying the special allowance for the accompanying scheme automatically, in advance and annually, rather than using resources on animals, individual processing. This is what we in the Danish People's Party think is really exciting, and we want to help find solutions. According to the proposal, the total public expenditure on giving children access to the accompanying scheme up to 7 years is estimated to be 21⁄2 million. kr. Every year, and it should perhaps be possible for us to find common solutions if that is what it costs. We would certainly like to help find solutions in this area, but I have to say that what I hear in relation to the area is that the Minister is difficult to get in touch with, including in terms of holding meetings. I think that this means that the organisations, the minister and, yes, we too will find a good solution in this area, as there are great challenges in the context of accompanying them. So we look forward to the committee reading and I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191819	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519191828	Thank you. People with disabilities must have as active and independent a life as possible. In fact, I think we all agree on that here in the Folketing, but perhaps we disagree on the means. In the Radical Left we cannot support the proposal here because, firstly, it runs counter to the original purpose of the accompanying scheme and, secondly, it costs money that the Enhedslisten does not have. I believe in a participating society where everyone should have the opportunity to contribute and where we basically take responsibility by being able to do it yourself, you have to do it yourself. So, in a way, I have such two different liberal voices within me in this area, because on the one hand there is a liberal voice saying that, of course, people should be allowed to spend the time as they think, but on the other hand there is also a liberal voice saying that if you can do it yourself, you must, and the whole idea of the accompanying system is to help those who cannot do it on a daily basis. After all, the scheme helps in everyday life to ensure that children and young people and adults can participate in a local leisure activity, come to a birthday or go to the cinema. The scheme must provide these people with an active everyday life outside the home, and it cannot, of course, do so if you save all the hours for an annual holiday. Then the idea goes down that it's part of everyday life. That is why I think that the cut is right, because today we can save some of the hours together, but not all of them. Today it is also the case that not everyone spends all the hours they can have, and therefore this is also a question of money. Do we think that we best spend more money on vacation, or would we rather spend the money on those who really need the most help? Then I'd rather be the last. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192024	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192031	With the resolution, the Enhedslisten will amend the provisions of the Services Act on accompanying schemes for children and adults. The proposal is divided into three parts and all three parts will, in the eyes of the SF, strengthen the conditions for citizens with disabilities. For many people with disabilities, the accompanying scheme is necessary to make life work together. It is a scheme that allows citizens with disabilities to go to football matches, concerts or a tour of the cinema. With the resolution, it will be possible for these citizens to save up to 180 accompanying hours together, for example. makes it possible to go on vacation with a companion • something that we others take for granted, and something that should of course also be an opportunity for this group of citizens. Everything else is neither fair nor fair in the eyes of the SF. Nor is it fair to the SF that the 7-year-old with disabilities does not have the same opportunities for leisure activities as the peer playmate without a disability. Both have the right to a leisure life with a place for children's birthdays, football training, play arrangements or other things, even without burdening parents. It is important to emphasise that child support should not, of course, be used as a childcare scheme, but children should have the same rights regardless of their disability. In the SF, we are in favour of a system in which the citizen does not meet with a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy and suspicion, and that is why we think that the idea of automatic payment of accompanying allowances is a good idea. However, we also believe that some kind of control is necessary. It's all our money. But we support this part of the proposal because we think it sounds wise to try to minimize bureaucracy. At the same time, we would also like to put forward a discussion of the scheme to ensure that it is put together in a way that will spend the money on those who need it, and not elsewhere. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Enhedslisten for highlighting with this motion for a resolution a group of citizens who otherwise find it difficult to shout loudly in society and make their voice heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192225	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192235	With this motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten wishes to invite the government to submit legislative proposals by the end of 2015 to amend the provisions of the Services Act on accompanying schemes in accordance with Article 97 for adults and Article 45 for children, so that it will be possible to save up to 180 hours together for the purpose of overall application, that the special allowance for expenses relating to accompanying persons is paid automatically and in advance once a year, and that the age limit for entitlement to escorts is reduced from 12 to 7 years. In the Liberal Alliance, we agree that there is a need to look at the accompanying scheme and that there is too much bureaucracy linked to allocation, administration and payment, and the possibility of saving the hours clearly ought to be made more flexible. In other words, it makes sense to save hours so that they can be used for larger events or trips. It also makes sense to allow the payment of allocated allowances to a greater extent automatically without proof of expenditure incurred, since the costs of administration are not related to the level of expenditure. It also provides more flexibility for the individual and less bureaucracy. Whether it is necessary to lower the age limit is a more open question. As can be seen from the answer to question 206 to the Minister, the need to reduce the age limit has not been investigated and it is unclear whether the smallest children in this age group will benefit from an accompanying scheme, because they will probably only be safe when accompanied by family members or others who know them well. Our main appeal, however, is that we do not have an overview of the different local authorities' practices in this area. We would like to see better preparation so that we can be inspired by the best municipalities. We also need to look at funding and get an overview of what savings are made in a less bureaucratic administration. The Liberal Alliance will therefore continue to work on the issue over the summer and possibly return with its own proposal in the new Assembly. And then we shall abstain from voting on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192455	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192507	Thank you. As the Conservative rapporteur, Tom Behnke, cannot be present, I have promised to make his speech. We can support most of the resolution from the Conservative side. We agree that the possibility of saving hours should be extended from the present 90 hours to 180 hours. It provides greater flexibility, and it gives influence and self-determination to the users of the scheme. We would also like to look at the special allowances for expenses relating to the escort and see if they should be paid automatically, as the current system costs far too much administrative trouble. So we do not necessarily agree with the last point of the proposal, namely the reduction of the age limit for the right of escort from the current 12 years to 7 years. It is possible that the age limit should be reduced, but 7-year-olds are very young. We are not convinced that this is the right thing to do. Perhaps you could start by lowering the age limit to 10 years. So let us use the committee procedure to discuss it and see if we can find a way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519192606	First of all, I would like to thank Parliament's parties for the debate. It is quite true that this proposal deals with three different points, all of which relate to accompanying children and adults who have a disability. Firstly, we believe that we should have an opportunity to save our escort hours so that 180 hours can be saved together. The Minister considers this to be contrary to the intention of the scheme. I very much disagree with that. The whole scheme's intention is, to me, to give citizens with a disability a freedom so that they can also participate in society as they please. Whether it's in a way that's about going to football or going to the cinema, or it's about going on the vacation you might never have been on and dreaming about one year, I think it's very much up to the individual citizen to be able to assess. As the system is today, it is the politicians who have decided that we cannot do so. So let us give the citizens the flexibility and spend the hours they already have the right to spend in a slightly more flexible way than is the case today. Secondly, we propose simplifying the payment of the accompanying allowance. I am glad to hear that there are at least a number of parties in the Folketing who can see that it is quite inappropriate as it is being done today. These are quite small amounts, it may be a ticket for a cinema ticket, it may be a ticket for an entrance to a football match, and each time the municipality has to deal with whether this is right now and you have to prove whether the costs are now properly incurred and so on. Overall, the amount can be up to DKK 837. a year. It is my claim that for the vast majority of people who use the accompanying scheme, the costs will probably be higher, and that is why I am not so worried that we are paying out a lot of money to people who should never have had them, but I am rather concerned that we are spending a lot of money on administration in an area where it does not make sense to do so. The last point is the question of lowering the age limit in order to be able to receive support as low as seven years. Today it is the case that you have to be 12 years old in order to be entitled to accompany you. In the past it was actually 15 years, we have then lowered it slightly. It is quite common, it is my clear opinion, that children, when they reach school age, sometimes go home with playmates, without parents participating, going to leisure clubs, going to scouts or other things where their parents are not. If parents are to be able to be there to help children, for example. to be able to go to the bathroom, to get dressed, etc., it means in practice to many of these children that they never go. Parents usually have a job to do. That is why I think it would make a great deal of sense to give children from 7 years of age the opportunity to do some things on their own, as well as their peers. That would certainly not mean that they would take advantage of all the room available today in 15 hours, but even small things can of course be absolutely essential for them to become part of the social community of the class in which they go. As I said in today's debate, I received an email from a mother named Trine Christiansen who had read about the proposal and who has a daughter of 7 years of age suffering from autism. She was quite so, I think, uplifted by the possibility that it could be done at all for her daughter to be able to participate in, for example. a children's birthday, which is immediately after school or during school hours. She can't do that today. It is also true that there is a cost in this area of about 21⁄2 million. kr. As many have pointed out, the Ministry itself, and it is also quite true, that we have not pointed out any specific instructions. That is why, of course, I fully agree that this would require us to find a solution together. I think that the position of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was quite right, namely that I actually think we can do that if we want to. It is not so long ago that we have sat, all the parties of the Danish Parliament, and negotiated a very acute situation in the Danish Health Authority, where we managed to find quite a lot of money to carry out a lasting lifting of the Danish Health Authority by looking creatively at how we spend the money we have. So if we sit together, look through the Ministry's budgets, see creatively in this area, it's 21⁄2 million. kr. It is not, of course, an amount that is out of reach. That is why I would actually like to call for this to be the way forward. I am pleased that both the Liberal Alliance, the SF, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives can support either all or part of the proposal, and I would actually suggest that we work on it as a report and see how far we can go. And then it is the case that if the Left were to change its mind, then I can at least count on the fact that it would actually succeed in agreeing on some things and obtaining a majority behind it. So I hope that this will be done by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519193126	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519193141	The debate is open. And that is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519193203	Thank you for the floor. The proposers propose that the necessary legislative changes be made with the aim of introducing objective rules on what it means to be a genuine single parent and a genuine single pensioner, and what it means to live in a marriage-like relationship. The reason for the proposal is that clear rules should provide citizens with better legal certainty and that a more uniform practice could be achieved in this area. The rules are designed as they are today because a broad majority in the Folketing has wanted to target the benefits to the citizens most in need of support. A distinction is made between single persons on the one hand and cohabitants or married persons on the other in relation to a number of social benefits. This is because there are economic advantages in being two to share the fixed costs and that the income of a collector or spouse is important in targeting benefits to those citizens who are most in need. In my view, it is quite reasonable for single people to be treated differently from married and cohabitants. It is not possible to determine, on purely objective criteria, when you are living together or have the same advantages as married people. Therefore, the rules are designed to allow the authorities to exercise a specific discretion. The clear starting point is that one is considered as living together if one lives together and can enter into marriage and that one is considered single if one lives separately. For the vast majority of citizens who receive these benefits, there is no doubt as to whether they are single or cohabiting. However, in some individual cases it will be a concrete and sometimes difficult estimate on the basis of many facts of the case which may have an impact on the assessment. This is particularly true in cases where there are facts suggesting that two people actually live together without being registered at the same population register address. It is in these situations that the Authority needs to make a concrete estimate on the basis of the facts and on the basis of the practice of the Ankestyrelsen. The Enhedslisten's proposal will mean that two people who have a common economy and are together every day alternately at each other's residence should be considered as single. According to the rules on residence registration, it is perfectly legal to have your residence in, for example, a cottage, a caravan or a boat. A single couple, who have both an apartment and a summer house, can register separately and live together alternately at the two addresses. However, in my view it is not right for a couple to receive higher public benefits simply because they have chosen to adapt to their separate residence registration. So I know that Enhedslisten believes that we can supplement by checking for, for example. how much power and water they use, but then we end up having to estimate when the facts show that it is a co-life. As the rules have been drawn up, the authorities must look at whether the parties have common housekeeping or whether they have the same economic and practical advantages as married and cohabitants. Therefore, the rules do not prevent a single person from having a boyfriend or divorced parents from having a good relationship with their children. As both the Ankestyrelsen's decisions and the Ministry's pamphlet show, a great deal must be done before two persons living separately are to be considered as living together. Citizens should therefore not fear losing their benefits just because they are socializing with others or working well together for children. It is always easy to demand more rules and changed rules. But a change in the rules based, for example, on: Older The proposal of the case to simplify the rules does not remove the need for control and the risk of a difference in practice. Elders The case suggests that cohabitation be defined on the basis of objectively verifiable conditions such as: population register address, fixed costs in the form of rent, heating or the like. But that will mean that control will simply be transferred to people's registration instead, and it is very much the residence address that is being cheated on. Enhedslisten believes that the L 140 bill, which partly transfers five areas to Payout Denmark, and partly allows Payout Denmark to conduct register coordination in municipal services, increases the need to have clear rules on single and cohabiting. The draft law adopted on 21 April by a broad majority in the Folketing does not alter the definition of when to be considered as single or cohabiting. On the other hand, with this change of law, we have made it possible for Denmark and the municipalities to have closer and binding cooperation on the control of social benefits. We have given Disbursement Denmark and the municipalities the opportunity to exchange the necessary information for decisions concerning the same citizen if the other authority is to take a similar decision, for example. whether the citizen is really single. This will ensure that Payout Denmark and the municipalities have the opportunity to make their own individual assessment of the case on the best possible and most informed basis, which will ultimately lead to a greater degree of uniformity, as the cases will be settled on the basis of the same documentation. The rules we have today are not perfect, but at the same time I believe that we will still face a number of the same challenges that we have today if the Enhedslisten's proposal on purely objective criteria is introduced. I would also be concerned that citizens who would like to receive higher benefits and who have the opportunity to adapt themselves through residence registration will, so to speak, be able to decide for themselves whether they should have a higher benefit, even if all other factors show that the parties should be considered as co-existence. I am convinced that Payout Denmark and their cooperation with the municipalities will help ensure a more uniform practice and more uniform guidance for citizens. At the same time, the Ministry has an ongoing collaboration with Payout Denmark, where there is general focus on simplifying rules and making them more objective. In this context, we will also look at the possibility of adjusting the basis for assessing whether the beneficiaries are single or not. The government's view is that there is a need for the authorities to be able to make a concrete assessment of whether a citizen is single or cohabiting, so that we ensure that social benefits go to those who are most in need. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution and it is proposed that B 147 be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519193836	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519193841	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. There are, of course, some half concessions in saying that the rules are not perfect. So I would like to hear from the Minister what concrete steps will be taken to make the rules better and clearer. Then I would also like the Minister to confirm that our proposal means that you have to prove that you are really single, that is to say that you are responsible for the cost of your home. I just have to ask the Minister to confirm that he has read that part of the proposal, otherwise it would appear that nothing has been done at all. The third and final question is: can the Minister confirm that if the citizen goes to the municipality to find out what it means to live in a marriage-like relationship, then the citizen cannot be informed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519193930	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519193933	Well, that's kind of the hops in this proposal, and that's what I mean by it's not perfect. That is why it is so important to leave it to the discretion of each case instead of having objective criteria. And that's exactly why I'm saying it's not perfect. And so it is not with the Enhedslisten's proposal. It will also depend on going in and moving control, as I said in my opening speech. So it's hard to come up with a perfectly perfect proposal when it comes to assessing these cases. And that is why I am very confident that it will be done on a case-by-case basis. That is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194020	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194023	It was, after all, half confirmation that the citizen cannot be told what it means to live in a marriage-like relationship. The rules are such today that the citizen cannot be told because, in the Minister's view, the municipality should be allowed to estimate what it means in the specific case of living in a marriage-like relationship. Why is it so important that the municipality needs to estimate it instead of having a clear and objective rule? I would like to know from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194100	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194102	Well, you shouldn't think that Enhedslisten's proposal solves the challenges in any way whatsoever. It just kind of shifts the problem. And then the premise is two things. One is that error payments are made, and the other is whether you like it or not that there are some people who cheat. And these are some of the things that we, I think, are trying to achieve with the Bill on Payout Denmark. Then, of course, there are some difficulties in assessing the individual couples in this case. And what I say in all its simplicity is that it must therefore be an estimate for the individual municipality, and that is also where you can get the information that is in fact needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194154	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur's line, Mrs Tina Nedergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194206	Thank you very much. As, unfortunately, the rapporteur of the Left cannot be present in the Chamber this evening, I have promised to read the speech, but one is always welcome to ask questions anyway. In the motion for a resolution we are now debating, the proposers believe that clear rules should be laid down for the definition of single parents and single pensioners. In the Left, we are always open to discussing whether rules work as intended and, of course, also ready to take the debate on defining what is really single. However, we do not agree that tightening the definitions is appropriate. Among other things, the proposers point out that the checks carried out on the basis of the current criteria of cohabitation may, in the worst case, lead to insulting experiences for the citizen that the citizen may feel accused of social fraud. In the Left, we are of the opinion that social fraud must be combated. It is absolutely fundamental for trust in common public welfare that cheating is not tolerated. It requires everything else to be equal, that we carry out a certain level of checks, which in a few cases can be seen cross-border for the individual, but at the same time also a check which is very important when it comes to the benefits paid by the large Community fund. In this context, I would say that tightening definitions only makes it more difficult to be a citizen. Because when the proposers want objective rules for the municipalities' assessments, it sounds a bit square and also a little out of date. In today's Denmark it is simply not possible to make simple boxes to assess whether a person is really a single parent or a single pensioner. Not two people live their lives the same, and thank God for that, for there must be room for that diversity. That is why it is also necessary for the rules on which the case-handlers have to assess the citizen on the basis of which they leave a room for discretion. In addition, I would also like to stress that we in the Left have great confidence that each municipality will carry out the task of monitoring and assessing when a person is a single parent or a single pensioner in the best possible way. We are fundamentally opposed to the idea of dragging rules over the heads of the municipalities, and for this reason too we are sceptical about the resolution. Against this background, unfortunately, we in the Left cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194427	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194432	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that, according to the rules we have now, citizens cannot be told what it means to live in a marriage-like relationship if citizens turn to the municipality. And that makes the citizens in a good sense, in order to be sure that they are complying with the law. Can the rapporteur confirm that these are the rules today? Citizens simply cannot be told how to behave and what to do to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194458	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194500	I do not really know whether I can confirm this, because one can also take the other point of departure and say that the relationship in which one lives or the relationship in which one does not live must of course be admitted. And then it must be up to the discretion of the case to assess whether it is within the framework of being single or not. So, I understand what the motivation for the proposal is, but the authors of the motion go the opposite way and say that as an authority you must argue and explain how citizens can, and apologize, stay within the rules, so that they may get some benefits that they would otherwise not be entitled to. And I have to say that it cannot be the municipality's job or our task as Parliament that we specifically advise on how to create your life so that you can have as maximum and as open access to public services as possible. So it must be the relationship in which one lives and wants to live, and then one must get the benefits to which one is entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194558	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194600	Thank you. But it is also with the motivation that the citizen addresses the municipality and says: We live that way and so, is it to be regarded as a marriage-like relationship? The public cannot be informed of this because, in the opinion of the majority and of the government and the rapporteur, there must be an estimate so that the municipality can then assess whether the citizen is now entitled to this or that, among other things. by snooping into the citizen's privacy and the citizen's sexual life, and what else is going on around this whole question. My question to the rapporteur is: is it not in accordance with the principles of a rule of law, which we normally pay tribute to, that citizens should know what the law means in concrete terms so that they can comply with it? That is the case with traffic law, that is the case with criminal law, so it is in all sorts of other conditions. Why, then, should there not be the necessary clarity when we talk about social issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194659	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194701	So, first of all, I think it would be very, very difficult to make an exhaustive list of what exactly separates, how many days it is and how many it is not. But I would like to say that for me it is not really so new that we have these estimates, which, of course, we must always be open to problem-setting in here. That is not what we in the Left reject, certainly not. And it may also be that you can get a little closer. I would just like to say that a short time ago we had among other things. a draft law from the same minister down here in the Chamber on adoption without consent, where also requested, among other things. from the author's own party, whether it was possible to make completely square and precise rules on what would be needed to have a child for forced removal or forced adoption of a child. And no, you can't. We are in a dynamic field where the different factors are weighted with different weights. And in the Left we are convinced that this estimate will also very often benefit the citizen, whereas when it comes to rigid rules in here, we will also have to make them much, much narrower for fiscal reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519194811	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. On behalf of our social rapporteur, too, who could not be here today, I would now like to express the Socialist Group's position on the resolution. The greatest aid from the public sector must go to the citizens most in need. I think we can all agree on that in this Chamber. This means that as a provider or a pensioner you can get more help if you are single than if you are married or roommate. We Social Democrats think this is fair, and it is also reflected in the legislation, but that does not mean, of course, that as a single pensioner you should be penalised financially for having a good friend or girlfriend, nor does it mean that as a single mother who no longer lives with the child's father, you should not be able to work well with him without being suspicious. There must be room for one's life to be organized in many different ways, and therefore our legislation must also provide room for a concrete and individual assessment. At the same time, as politicians in a welfare society with a high degree of redistribution, we are obliged to ensure that Community funds are spent in the best way, otherwise we risk the public's support for our social model disappears over time. When we talk about social benefits, this means, of course, that we must do our utmost to ensure that mistakes in payout and social fraud are kept at as low a level as possible. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is that objective rules should be put forward as to when one is single and when one is not. The proposal is justified on the grounds of citizens' legal certainty, which, of course, is a very important element in making legislation. There can be no two opinions on this. However, the proposal has the weakness of basing itself on the belief that one can create a system where there is no need for estimates and assessments, a system in which all people and all human relationships fit into the boxes of the system. But there is hardly any such system. There will always be a need for concrete assessments, for example. of what is a marriage-like relationship and what is not, when one legislates on the basis of principles that it is the most needy that need the most help. Therefore, the current rules are also designed in such a way that there is room for a concrete assessment where necessary. The starting point is that you are cohabiting if you live together, and vice versa, that you are single if you live separately. But if you really live together but still have different population register addresses, an estimate may be necessary, and that is not changed by making the population register address or not the jumping point. When will you be seen as a roommate, as the proposal proposes? This will not happen unless there is a willingness to pay higher benefits to a couple just because one has chosen to live in, for example. a cottage. We Social Democrats do not think that should be done. We therefore believe that the Enhedslisten does not do so either. What is crucial must and must be whether you really live together, and here we will sometimes need an estimate. This does not mean, of course, that the rules should not be as clear as possible, and it is our expectation that the cooperation between municipalities and Payout Denmark will contribute to a more uniform practice and a more uniform guide for citizens. In conclusion, although we find the intentions behind the proposal sympathetic, the Socialists do not support this proposal for the reasons I have mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195146	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195149	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. So I have to say to the rapporteur that either he has not read the proposal or he has misunderstood it. The Enhedslisten's proposal is not about whether you live together. This means that you are proving that you are responsible for the cost of housing yourself. You can live together and then not have the economic advantage of it. That is what matters. That is what is crucial in our proposal: you must be able to prove as a citizen that you are responsible for the cost of your own housing. That is absolutely crucial. So all those comparisons with cottages and all sorts of other things have never even been on the ground. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable and reassuring for legal certainty that citizens, when they approach the municipality, cannot be told what it means to live in a marriage-like relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195248	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195250	Thank you. I just do not believe, as other rapporteurs have said, that we are making completely square rules that will enable you to get an answer if you are addressing that question at your local office. Because there are different situations, as several rapporteurs and the Minister have also mentioned, and then there will be a need to make an estimate. With the legislation we are dealing with here, it must, as in all other cases, fit those who live perfectly according to the rules and those who try to get around it. Therefore, you have to have an opportunity for the municipality is also the supervisory body to ask whether you are really roommate or not. That is why it is important to have the flexibility of the legislation that exists now, and I think it is comprehensive. But, as I also mentioned, those who are in charge of the control, and of course, Paying Denmark this out comes closer and sets out a practice that might make it even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195351	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195354	Thank you. Well, it bites itself in the tail, sir. rapporteur. It is only because one insists on having a completely diffuse concept called marriage-like relationships which, moreover, are a little different described in different legislations that one has to have an estimate. So there was the idea of abolishing this concept, marriage-like relationship, and instead introducing clear and objective criteria so that citizens knew what they had to stick to, and so it was much easier for municipalities to control and so that one could make sure that one got a much more uniform practice out there for this. So it's only because you insist on preserving this completely diffuse concept. And I ask again: does the rapporteur think it is reassuring for legal certainty that citizens cannot be told what it means to live in a marriage-like relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195452	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195454	What I hear Enhedslisten say now is that we cannot explain the system we have anyway, which is why we have to give it up and then give all the same benefits, whether we agree or not. That is what I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and that is why, if that is the case, it is a huge calculation that is printed here. That is why we have to have legislation that says "and it has been the case for many, many years that you have to assess whether you are really single or not." And there is a difference between the benefits you receive according to whether you are one or the other. Then you live a little differently, compared to how you did it earlier, and it does, among other things, that it is a relevant question that Enhedslisten asks. But you can't, I think, make square rules. That answers Enhedslisten's question one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195542	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195550	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is a very relevant theme that Enhedslisten brings up here today. There are many stories about people who are defined and judged not to be single, and where my logic tells me that they are. That is why I can follow Enhedslisten's desire for more clear guidelines. This is going to sound a bit like we're chasing, and that everyone cheats and everyone wants to cheat, and that's a problem if you can't know if you're cheating before you get to it. It also has to be part of the assessment, how much transaction costs we as a society will bear to reveal a possible cheating, i.e. how much resources we will spend on a recording device to secure against cheating, while we know that all the rapporteurs have so far also confirmed that there will be no one hundred percent system that will ensure that some people get something they might not be entitled to. That is why I would like to speak in favour of greater clarity and, in fact, I believe that in this context we can get help from the latest legislation on payments to Denmark. I know that the Enhedslisten was not particularly enthusiastic about this, but it opens up the possibility of making the so-called admiration lists, where it is possible to ascertain, for example, whether there is a link between registers. Seven single men live in the same small cellar room. In fact, I believe that we can have very effective control of low costs in this way and that the case-law should be based on objective data collusion as a starting point. And if there is nothing suspicious about it, perhaps we should have confidence in the citizens. We can, for example. look at the proposal from the Elders Case, which is about checking whether you really have a home as a single person, really pay for electricity, water, heat and other costs of having that accommodation. Then it may be that you spend time with someone else sometimes, but where is the economic benefit of doing so in terms of cheating? We need to create a different development from that which is under way right now, when older single people can be afraid to help each other. They may be accused of not being single. If we no longer dare help each other, we will be a much, much more expensive society. We must aim for a system where there is a suitable risk, of course, to be taken if you deliberately cheat, but where you can safely be helpful and can eat together several times a week, without having to be suspicious because of it. I recently received an e-mail from an old man over 80. He was part of a couple or I don't have to say couples, because then they'll be accused of not being single. It's two people who got divorced over 20 years ago. They have common children, they have common grandchildren, they have different real homes, they pay rent, water and heat etc. to a reasonable extent. And yes, they are seen a lot, they often eat together, they spend time with their children and grandchildren. They are worried because they experience that they are being suspicious; they experience that they have to answer questions about their cohabitation, which they should not really ask them. They shouldn't be worried. As a society, we should be happy that they can find out, that they can help each other not to be lonely. That is why I hope that in a committee we can work together to find a way towards clearer, simpler rules so that we actually know what we have to comply with as a citizen. That would be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195927	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519195928	Thank you. As I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur supports both the intentions and indeed the very principle we are trying to apply. It is, of course, a principle that we are trying to base, and it is not a fully drafted legislative text. So that is just what I wanted to clarify, i.e. whether the rapporteur's speech should be understood as meaning that the rapporteur would like to work further on the principle we are proposing, which is based on the Elder case's proposals. We shouldn't take credit for something we didn't make up ourselves. We just thought that proposal was fairly simple and clear and obvious. So what I want to clarify is whether we are working in the same direction or what was actually in the rapporteur's conclusion on our proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200012	I would like to confirm that it seems to me immediately as if the Elders' proposal is simple, accessible and manageable. Whether it should be that way or not, I cannot say, but I would like to confirm that we will help to find criteria that are as objective as possible, that can make it simpler and that can make it safe for those who come up to civil service and ask to know if what they are doing is right. Because we cannot be familiar with having a system in which we cannot actually get an answer as to whether the way we live is in order or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200054	Will Mr. Finn Sørensen have the floor again? No, it's good not to get in. Then things go a little easier. Okay, thanks for that. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200107	Thank you. We need a strong welfare society. In it lies to me that we are helping those who need help, but also that we are telling those who can themselves that they must themselves and that we are targeting the benefits to those who need them. This is also true in this area. I can follow Enhedslisten in saying that it would be nice to have precise rules, but it is precisely the kind of precise rules that have to do with making things really difficult and bureaucratic, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. In my view, it makes sense that there is a difference between what you get in benefits, depending on whether you are single or cohabiting/married, because it is only cheaper to be two to share the fixed costs. The starting point, as several others have also said, is that if you live together, you are single if you live separately. In most cases there is little doubt about it, but in some cases it will be a concrete and sometimes difficult estimate on the basis of many facts in the case. This is particularly true of cases where it suggests that two people actually live together without being registered at the same population register address. As I read this proposal from the Enhedslisten, although there are some objective criteria for this consumption, one will still have to estimate. People who are smarter on the details of this than I am also saying that it will be easier to bypass the rules with the proposal that Enhedslisten has than the rules are today. That is why I feel somewhat as the Minister also said, namely that it may well be that the rules are not perfect today, but we will still have the same problems with the Enhedslisten proposal. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200302	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200305	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur believes that it is an argument in itself that if you make clear rules, it is easier to cheat. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is this a principle that we must also extend to criminal law and to traffic law, just to mention two important legislations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200322	It wasn't my main argument. My main argument is that I believe that making very precise rules will only make it more difficult. In fact, I think that the rapporteur from the Left said this very well, namely that these are matters where we have to go in concrete and assess what people are and where it does not make sense to make absolutely square rules. And that is primarily on the grounds that we are rejecting this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200352	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200354	Thank you. The rapporteur therefore used the second explanatory statement, which I am allowed to discuss. And it hasn't been withdrawn, so it's still an important argument that came up last time we talked about it. It is an argument in itself for the governing parties and for the majority that there must not be too clear rules, because then it is easier to cheat. So I'm just asking, shouldn't we be transferring that concept to every other piece of legislation, too, because otherwise it won't work, right? So I would like the rapporteur to reply to that, and then the question I have asked others: can the rapporteur confirm that the reason why we have to assess the rules we have now is that we are stubbornly clinging to operating with a completely outdated and foggy and diffuse concept that no one can or will define, namely the concept of marriage-like relationships? That is why we need to look at the rules we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200452	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200455	The main argument for me in this is that it is a concrete assessment whether you are living together or not, and it does not make any sense for me to lay down completely fixed rules, because it is precisely the kind of fixed rules which then lead to it being bureaucratic and that people do not think it is going to make sense whether they fall within or outside the rules. That is why our argument is also that it may not be perfect today, but we do not believe that Enhedslisten's proposal solves it; and if it is even easier to bypass the rules, I do not think it makes sense to follow the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200538	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200544	I would like to thank Enhedslisten again for keeping the tab high for an important issue by putting forward this proposal. In SF, we fully agree with Enhedslisten that citizens who receive social benefits or subsidies that depend on their relationship with each other must know the rules of course they must. And they shouldn't be afraid either, because they're insecure about the rules. Of course, it has to be clear that you can go to the cinema, have dinner with friends and boyfriends, without having any impact on the dependency base. People should not be afraid of losing their trust without reason, and I see Enhedslisten's proposal as a good opportunity to discuss how the public system and its rules can be better, more transparent and clearer for the citizens whom they intend to help. For this we must remember: the welfare state is demanding that we have a hand in dealing with how our common money is spent and distributed and on what criteria it will be, but we are not making the welfare system to drive citizens into fear and a feeling of being watched. So clarity in regulations is also about citizens' rights and security. Clear rules were also important for the SF when we negotiated the proposal a few years ago, and that is also important for the SF today. In 2013, we voted against the Enhedslisten's proposal at that time because, in cooperation with the government in which we were sitting, we set up an inter-ministerial working group which had just to draw up a guide and a practice for the authorities' assessment of single versus cohabitants, so that the right and duty could become clearer for people. The comments on Enhedslisten's proposal state that citizens still cannot get clear information from their municipality about what to do to comply with the law. That's not gonna work. And we would like to know whether it is the guides that have not worked and if they have not worked, whether it is because the municipalities do not use them or where it is going wrong. Perhaps we would like to have a little more clarity about that. I guess we actually need to know that in order to assess the problem and thus see how to solve the possible problem. Then we have to look at whether it is the municipalities that should be better at communicating rules to citizens, or whether it is with the support of the Ministry that one can make it clearer, or whether there is actually a need for legislative changes, as the Enhedslisten proposes. If it becomes relevant to clarify the rules, it is essential that a new definition of single people be made carefully so that it becomes clear to the case workers and can be clearly communicated to the citizens. I think that the wording of the Elders' case, as proposed by the Enhedslisten, contains a number of ambiguities, for example. on general consumer goods. Is it more clear to case officers and citizens involved than what marriage-like relationships mean? I'm not sure. It is not an either or, but we believe in the SF that it is difficult, and we must of course bear that in mind. That is why we could use a little more professional judgement as to whether this definition is better than the current one, and whether this is the way we have to go to solve the challenge. In conclusion, we are pleased that Enhedslisten raises the problem, but we need more knowledge of the guidance and what has happened after it has been made and how the rules are communicated in the municipalities before we can decide to vote in favour of the proposal. We want to help make rules clearer for everyone, but we need to do it right. Our feeling is that the rules may be good enough, but that there is work to be done to clarify things, and that task is probably in the municipalities. I hope that we will be able to discuss this in committee during the next reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200857	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519200900	Thank you, and also thank the rapporteur, for understanding the intentions of the proposal; that was wonderful. It was just a pity that the rapporteur had to be so far down before a clear receipt came, so thank you for that. I have to say that I think the rapporteur knows that this is a proposal in relation to a principle that we should set out; it is not a final legislative text. That is why I think that is how it will be that there may be some things that we have not dealt with fully in detail, and that would come in the subsequent legal work, for example. the question of how to define consumer goods. But it will still be something completely objective that can be stated and described in the law if needed. I also appreciate the fact that the rapporteur wants some more knowledge before taking a position. That is fine, but I would just like to remind the rapporteur that, as it were, we have already received a clear message today from a majority of the parties, from the government and support parties, who say that we will not change the rules when it comes to marriage-like relationships. A completely diffuse concept will be retained, and that is the concept that creates the problems. I therefore think that the rapporteur could go to the bottom of the coin and at least answer the crucial question of whether we should establish clear, objective criteria so that everyone knows what is up and down, or whether we should continue with this diffuse concept of marriage-like relationships. Because that's what's causing the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201028	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201030	Thank you. I actually think I will repeat what I said, in other words that we are uncertain whether it is the guidance that has been prepared that is the problem, whether it is the handling of it or the non-use of it. That it doesn't work optimally, I think it's obvious to everyone. It can be said that the cash aid saga with unfortunate payments or not pays emphasizes that this dilemma exists. And I fully recognise the political framework of the proposers, what can we say, for how a redefinition can be made, and it is clear, of course, that lawyers need to do so, but I also believe that both the government and the other parties are right in saying that there will also be an estimate. It is quite difficult to make a state definition of a relationship, because there will be different concrete things in the specific cases that need to be assessed. But the fact that something has to be done is quite obvious, and that is why I hope we can use the committee procedure to discuss further whether we can get a little closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201130	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201132	Thank you. I am also looking forward to having discussions on this with, among others, Mr President. Mrs Bettina, Mrs Trine Pertou Mach, excuse the confusion of names. I am quite sure it will be constructive. I just wanted to say that the track is really chalked up. If we are talking about these guidelines, which we were last promised and which have also been drawn up, then we can see that they have not solved the problem. They have not, because those who have made the guides, the government, stick to the concept of marriage-like relationships, and that is what I would like the rapporteur to do. Because that is at the heart of the whole problem. As long as we have a concept which is completely diffuse and which the municipalities can define as they like in the individual case, we will have the arbitrary, and that is why I would like the rapporteur to address the principle of the matter, which is: should we have clear and objective rules, or should we have a diffuse concept called marriage-like relationships?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201227	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201228	I am not sure I can come any closer to the answer, and it is not a problem that the rapporteur was confused by my name; it is, after all, the most nice thing I have heard for a long time of this kind of name confusion. The need for better practice is perhaps the way we want to go in the SF. Let us try to look a little more carefully at what the challenges are, more than saying that now we have to choose some sharp definition. It is clear that there is a need for greater uniformity, but I do not think that in this case there is a need for some room for discretion in the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201302	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201315	With this resolution, the Enhedslisten wishes to retable B 62 from the 2012-13 parliamentary year in a revised version. The Liberal Alliance supported the proposal at the time, and we can also support it today. We think it is a good idea to have clear definitions of what a single parent and a single pensioner are. It has been found that the municipalities interpret the concepts differently, and this may leave citizens in an unfortunate situation where they are in doubt about the rules and feel suspicious by the municipality. The Elders case has also called for understandable, clear and objective rules to be laid down in this area. The Elders case, as a simplification of the rules in this area, proposes that a single person be defined as having a self-employed residence with his own population register address and that he can demonstrate that he pays rent, electricity and other usual consumption costs for the dwelling. A clear definition will increase legal certainty and we will avoid ending up in a surveillance society where municipalities start to control citizens right into the bedroom. The Liberal Alliance can therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201420	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201427	Thank you. As the Conservative rapporteur, Tom Behnke, cannot be present, I have promised to state the following: the motion for a resolution is a re-submission. The Conservative People's Party was unable to support the proposal the last time it was tabled, and since nothing has happened since the last time we change our position, we are still opposed to the proposal. The problem is not the rules, the problem is the ones who cheat the system. With more detailed rules, we risk hitting someone unjustly, and we run the risk of those who want to cheat going straight to the border and just trying to hide the rest. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201505	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519201524	Thank you. Thank you for the debate. Then it was not just the proposal that became a re-submission that was also the debate and the views that became a reappearance. I just want to say that this proposal is as topical today as it was in May 2013 when we last discussed this issue. This has actually become more topical because we have confirmed that the guidelines which were the last reason why the government and a number of other parties would not support our proposal have not helped. We are still dragging on to what is the main problem, namely the concept of marriage-like relationships, with the possibility of arbitrary discretion given to the municipalities. At the same time, we have, in fact, had a deterioration in the problem, because in the Bill on Disbursement Denmark, to which several have referred, we introduce a new concept similar to that of marriage-like relationships, but it is a concept which is not defined in the legislation, namely the concept of supposed cohabitation, whatever it may be for something. There is therefore a fundamental mistrust of the citizens in advance. It's okay if there are citizens who cheat. We know there is. We're gonna get rid of that. However, this is not achieved by introducing concepts which are not clear and unambiguous to the citizens. Then we have had the whole case of the scandal, I would call it the illegal decisions in the cash aid cases on co-living cash benefits recipients with mutual dependants, who have also updated this debate. If you look at the arguments against the proposal, you see that most people are directly affected by what is both words and intentions in the proposal we have made. I'll get back to that. The main argument is a circle that says there is a need for an estimate. Well, there is only because the law has been built on a concept which is not defined in the legislation, namely the concept of marriage-like relationship. That's why we need an estimate. So the problem is basically very simple and the solution is also simple, namely to remove the concept. That is not what you want, and I will come back to that in the end. Apparently, I just need to clarify what the principles of Enhedslisten are on this issue. Is it reasonable to take into account, when measuring the amount of public services, that it is an economic advantage for citizens if they share the cost of their accommodation with another citizen? Yeah, that's very reasonable. The Enhedslisten does not dispute that principle with this proposal. Is it reasonable that citizens should also be able to prove that they themselves pay for the cost of their accommodation? I'm talking about it in a broad sense. I'm not going to list it all. Yes, that is quite reasonable, for you should not cheat on public services, and the financial advantage is that if you can use such a big word these days about social benefits you have about being single, you have to be justified, and it has to be checked. Of course it should. With all the legislation, all the rules must have the possibility of control. I think there are a number of obvious arguments for our proposal. We retain the principle that there is an economic advantage in sharing the cost of housing and that it should also be involved in measuring the size of public services, but we introduce clear objective criteria for determining whether or not one is entitled to one or other of these benefits. This will strengthen legal certainty, and it will fulfil the fundamental principle that must be in the rule of law, which we otherwise apply in all kinds of other areas of legislation, that citizens should be able to know how to ensure that they remain within the framework of the law. If we move on to the objective criteria we propose, we will avoid the gross violations of citizens' privacy that many citizens have suffered when the municipality starts its control groups and its duvet vows and asks citizens degrading and deeply insulting questions about their sexual life, and what we also have of many really boring examples of what this legislation leads to, as the rules are today. At the same time, we are saving unnecessary control so that municipalities can actually concentrate their control resources on catching the citizens who are actually cheating, rather than spending their energies on the suspicion of a large number of other citizens. Basically, the proposal we are making here will strengthen something that is urgently needed today, namely trust between citizens and the system. Many citizens are experiencing, especially with the legislation we are dealing with here, that the municipality is not put in the world to help them and to clarify what they need to do to comply with the rules. They find that the municipality is set in the world to suspect them and carry out unnecessary checks. What remains after the debate is, of course, that the vast majority in this Parliament will retain a concept which is not defined in the legislation, namely the concept of marriage-like relationship. It is actually fantastic that you can do it without blinking your eyes, because that is what causes all the problems. Then the question stands and blows the wind: Why do you want to hold on to it? It is not possible to get a very clear answer to that. It will probably be seen as malicious to conclude the following, but it is almost said: it must be the case that the municipalities have room for the arbitrariness, have room for the suspicion, have room for the kind of unnecessary control and, in fact, waste of resources that is going on today. I must of course thank you for the debate and also for the reasonable clarity of the arguments for rejecting the proposal, but then regret that it is only a few parties, two and a half parties I talked to if we consider SF to be half in this context, which would like to continue working and which recognises that we have a problem. I look forward to it. After all, we are learning to confine ourselves to a little in these debates on the social security of citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519202217	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519202234	The debate is open, and first it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519202300	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution B 146, the SF will require the government to take initiatives to ensure that children are offered a healthy and developing children's environment. SF specifically requires the government to carry out a study setting sound level limit values, CO2 Further, SF requires the government to submit by 31 December 2015 a draft law implementing the study's recommendations. The government shares the ambition that children should have a good and healthy children's environment in day care, and the resolution is also a good opportunity to focus on children and the children's environment in day care institutions and day care, because this is an extremely important area. A number of legal requirements have already been laid down for the children's environment in day care, crèches and kindergartens. A key part of the purpose of the daily offers is that children should have a good physical, mental and aesthetic environment for children. In other words, there must be a children's environment that promotes children's well-being, health, development and learning, and the children's environment must be considered in conjunction with the educational work on children's learning, because the two things are closely linked. This is clear directly from the law. What would a good physical environment for children in a daycare institution actually say? That, of course, is the question you can ask yourself. This is a trade, for example. that the physical framework should support the pedagogical work in the best possible way. It can, for example, be done. be to design the playground in a way that allows children both to run and challenge themselves physically and elsewhere on the playground to play a little quieter games. As part of the educational work and the work on the curricula, staff must constantly consider whether there are elements of the children's environment that can be a barrier to children's thriving and learning. The requirements of the law to work with the children's environment are not limited to the physical environment for children in the day care services. Thus, there is also a requirement for children to have a good mental and aesthetic environment for children. Few people may disagree that a good psychological environment for children in daycare is a prerequisite when we talk about happy and safe children who thrive and want to go to crèche or kindergarten every single day. Children should like to experience that the day offer is figuratively a place where there is high ceilings, and there must be room and respect for people, both children and adults, being different. And there should be a good and respectful companionship among children and adults. So the children's environment is already a key part of the day-to-day work that staff must take into account when working with children's well-being and learning. In addition, there is also a health and safety law for the staff who benefit the children, because the children are in the same rooms as the adults. The health and safety rules lay down rules for noise, temperatures and air change in day-care establishments. This is evident, for example. of the health and safety rules, that air in day-care establishments should be replaced at least twice an hour and that room temperature should be between 20 and 22 degrees Celsius. So a number of rules have already been laid down in this area. For of course it is not good for either children or adults if the noise level in the crèche or kindergarten is towering or that the living room is inexorably hot. In addition to the rules of the day-to-day and work environment law, guides, model programmes and leaflets have been prepared which focus on how to, for example: can reduce the noise level in institutions and improve the indoor climate. The municipalities and the daily offers therefore have good opportunities to draw concrete inspiration from what can be done locally in the individual municipality and daycare institution, so that children have a good and healthy children's environment. Both children and adults are entitled to a good and healthy children's environment, and the government does not believe that the way forward right now is more rules. For what if children can no longer have a pillow fight in the pillow box because they fear that they exceed a noise limit, and what should actually happen if the children do so anyway? The government would rather focus on compliance with the rules already in force in this area, and the municipalities and day offers are constantly focusing on the child environment. In addition, it is worth remembering that in the past there has been a requirement for a written children's environmental assessment to be prepared in all day offers, but that requirement chose a unanimous Parliament to remove in 2010. The reason was that the staff thought they spent too much time on paperwork and that they would rather spend their time on the children, and I understand that perfectly well. In summing up, therefore, the government does not believe that the way to legislate is the right way to go. Children in day care should have a good and healthy children's environment, but there are already a number of rules in this area, so the focus should be on complying with the rules that exist. The government wants to use its energy to ensure good day-to-day services for our children, which is why the government will shortly announce an initiative in this area. The action must further raise the quality of daily offers, and the goal is for all children to get the best possible start to life. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519202832	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Tina Nedergaard as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519202848	Thank you. In view of the progress made, there is no reason for me to repeat the Minister's excellent speech in which he reviewed the rules in force. We must also say that we are inclined to reject the proposal. If I may turn so much to the political aspect, I would say that there is no doubt that a united Parliament wants good conditions for our children in the day institutions. This is true, whether it is the staffing we are talking about, whether it is the professional skills of the people who man the institutions or whether it is the indoor climate or something else. In fact, we would all probably wish that we could simply equip our day institutions with top-qualified people in abundance and with the best possible indoor environment, because there is no one we love as much as our children, and we want them to be the best possible conditions in their everyday lives. If we then in the Left reject the proposal anyway, it is because every time we make new rules, apart from what the Minister has said, it is also a question of what we are going to impose on the municipalities of new expenditures, purely professional and factual things about new rules, new bureaucracy and new inflexible regulations. What I hear over and over again from the SF in the field of children's and family, for which I myself have the rapporteurship in the Left, is that more educators are wanted. This was also said before the elections, and this was said when you helped write a government basis in 2011, but the fact is that while the SF has been part of the parliamentary basis of the Red Block government, over 3,000 teaching posts have been cut away in the municipalities. When you listen to the SF, you can also hear that they want more space in the day institutions. Yes, it may come all by itself, if there are not so many educators to fill them out, for then everything else will be just more space per. person who's there. But maybe that's not what the SF was thinking about. Now we can also hear that you want to ensure a very good indoor environment. There is not one of the proposals that we in the Left would not have liked to have accepted. What is, after all, the challenge in Danish society is to provide the sufficient resources to cover the many wishes that we jointly have for our children. That is why we cannot support the proposal. There is no mention of funding, and I must also note that in the years in which the government has been supported, there has been no wish/power to take a hard line in the area of children. In the course of negotiations on financial laws, it has been left to the discretion of the House to see that cuts in this area have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203142	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203146	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for acknowledging that this is something that a wide range of the Folketing actually cares about and cares about, and that is why I very much regret the fact that the rapporteur chooses to use his speech anyway to polemicise when we actually agree on the basis that we want to do as much as possible to ensure that our children have a good child life. I can also confirm that in the SF, before, during and after government participation, we wanted more educators to take care of our children. We stand by that completely. That is the advantage of thinking the same before, during and after government participation. I would like to ask the rapporteur to tell us whether the rapporteur's party wants better standards in the day institutions and, if yes, how it should be financed. So the second question: if we are to do something for the children's indoor climate and the environment in the day-care institutions, how does the rapporteur want to do so if we are to pour it off the board that is on the table right now, which in the first place is really just a study to see what limit values apply to children?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203249	This is a bit strange, because it is not me who drew up the resolution before us, but it is clear from the proposal put forward by the authors that an amount of up to 200 to 300 million has been proposed. kr. First of all, on the Government's proposal for the Finance Act for 2016, I quote. This means that the SF itself assumes that it costs between 200 and 300 million. I think it is one of the reverse worlds that I am here to explain on behalf of the Left how I am going to finance it. Yes, I am sorry, but it is usually those who make the proposals. I stand here and say that, insofar as there were financial resources to lift all the good things in this world, we would be happy to do so in the Left. We like people, we like children, we like socially vulnerable. We simply have to give priority and then I can reply quite clearly: the Left is not in favour of minimum standards in day-care institutions. We have made this absolutely clear. We answer that openly and honestly, but what is interesting is that the SF went to the polls on what the SF went into government on what the SF has entered into financial agreement with the government, and yet there is no shadow of minimum standards in the day institutions, but now we are approaching a choice and then the promises are repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203403	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203407	Now it is actually the case that, up to a number of financial laws, we have done something to raise the quality of Danish day care institutions with the government, both when we sat in it ourselves, but also as a support party afterwards. Now it is also the case that, in addition to liking people and children, we all like animals too, but I am a little interested in hearing the rapporteur say how you want to do some of these things when you subscribe to a zero growth approach to how the public sector is to be combined and how its economic framework should be. Will the rapporteur not try to explain quite precisely, because none of the rapporteur's colleagues has been able to: how will zero growth ensure higher quality in Danish day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203450	So we are actually in favour of free choice, so we feel that if you are not satisfied with the municipal service, then we actually think there should be an alternative to the citizens, to the families, to the parents. Therefore, we would like to support a more diverse supply. I have been in close contact with also private providers where there is a high level of user satisfaction. We do not have a problem with that in the Left. We think it is good that the municipalities get a hint with a rod from the parents that if the municipal offer is not enough good, then you go elsewhere. However, I just have to stress once again that we do not need to find funding for proposals that we have not put forward. This is a proposal that we actually reject, and we do so on the grounds that there is no economy to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203531	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Julie Skovsby as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203546	For us Social Democrats, the relationship of children is of the utmost importance. It is in childhood that you are shaped as a human being, it is in childhood that the first stones are added to the skills you need to create a good life later on, both professionally and socially. And it is in childhood that we must take action on the part of society to support those children who have not been fortunate enough to be born of resourceful parents. A crucial tool to ensure equal opportunities for all children is good and safe day care institutions. That is why, as a Social Democrat, I am also proud that this government, together with the SF and the Enhedslisten in the midst of a crisis, has prioritised 750 million. kr. annual to better quality in day-to-day offers. The motion for a resolution by the SF, which we are debating today, is about a so-called health and safety law for children. The process falls into two parts. It is not until 1 October that a study is to be carried out to establish limit values for, inter alia: noise, CO2 Next, by the end of this year, the government will have to put forward legislative proposals incorporating the recommendations of the study into the already existing legislation, for example. the day-offer law. The Socialists can fully support the intention behind the resolution, namely to ensure that our children have a good and healthy environment. No child is served by the fact that there is too much noise, too high temperatures or too bad air in their day care center. However, we believe that there is already good legislation in this area. The daily offer law dictates that daily offers must ensure a physical, mental and aesthetic child environment that promotes children's well-being, health, development and learning. In addition, the staff must think about the children's environment when they make educational teaching plans. In addition, the Working Conditions Act, which includes the staff of the day-care institutions, has a number of elements which naturally also benefit the children, since they are in the same premises as the educators. This applies, among other things, to: OSH rules on noise, temperature and ventilation. Finally, the traces from the time we in the Danish Parliament made legal demands that every day offer should make a written children's environmental assessment. We ended up abolishing that demand again because it became a bureaucratic time robber for our educators. Instead of introducing new legislation, therefore, we believe that it is better to focus on current legislation through the supervision of municipalities and to see that it is complied with, a task that we trust the municipalities and staff of the day institutions will undertake jointly. So, although we Social Democrats share the intention to ensure a good children's environment in our day-to-day services, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203914	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519203915	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the intention of the proposal. I would like to stress that it is not in any way the intention of the SF to introduce more bureaucracy and less time for children in the Danish day care institutions, on the contrary. But could the rapporteur not try to answer why it is that the Socialists do not help to check whether the limit values laid down in the Working Conditions Act, which apply to us adults, are the same for young children? Thus, it is not certain that children are affected in the same way by the limit values or levels that the Working Environment Act suggests to grow can tolerate. We don't know if kids can. Why is it that the Socialists do not want to be involved in the initial examination of whether these limit values can also work for children?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204004	What I think is good about is that we had the so-called children's environmental assessments included in the educational curricula, is that we are putting the competences of the professionals into play; that we are using their knowledge of how children are affected and how these different environments are, which may be so different in the different situations; so that, in concrete terms, the professional assessments are made locally, instead of coming from here with some target criteria that may make sense for us in here at Christiansborg, but which do not, from the point of view of the educators and from their professional knowledge, make particular sense in the specific cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204058	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204100	Thank you. I'm trying again, because this isn't about educators being able to assess how much noise a little child can tolerate. After all, it is not a professionalism that the educators necessarily have. And it's not just Christiansborg's interest either. The Working Conditions Act lays down certain limit values to which we adults must be exposed up to these limit values, but we do not know whether the same limit values apply to children. Maybe children are more sensitive, but they may also be less sensitive, but we do not actually know that. And what I was asking was whether the rapporteur would not help us to check whether these limit values work for children and how, if so, to make some legislation or framework regulation so that the working environment of children can be regulated subsequently.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204145-2	Well, I actually think the educators know a little more about this than I do at least. And, of course, I also know that our minister has the training. But in relation to the knowledge that educators have, I think they will say that in some cases children are more sensitive that in certain situations children are more sensitive. And there may be a need to spare them. And so today we already have this excellent legislation in the building regulations, in the daily offer law and in the health and safety legislation, which together ensure that we have some good rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204234	Then it is Mrs Rosa Lund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204237	Thank you. I could understand from the rapporteur's speech that the environment for children is important for the Socialists, but we cannot support the SF's motion for a resolution anyway. Is it because the government, of which the Socialists are part, is carrying a new children's package that we have heard about for a few months now? Could it be imagined that the children's package contained improvements in the area of the children's environment, if it were up to the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204314	I mean, what I may have had a little difficulty explaining is that when we have to assess professionalism and this is something like a good children's environment in the different situations that children can be in, I really think that as an educator and out locally, we are best at making the very concrete assessment. I think it is difficult to set a bureaucratic yardstick for how it should be. Instead of going back to the fact that there has to be more writing, let us say and stick to the fact that we are using the professionalism that exists in the individual institutions, where we can assess locally what it is, the need and what it is that is needed to strengthen the child's environment that is in the given institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204423	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204426	Thank you. What I'm fishing for, and maybe it was me who put my question a little too clumsy is what should be part of the government's children's package if the Social Democrats were to decide. It must be assumed that Mrs Julie Skovsby's party has a little influence on this children's package if it ever comes. Should the children's package include improvements in the area of children's environment, and if so, which? In short, how will the Socialists ensure a better environment for children in our day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204507	I believe that the legal requirements to ensure that we have a good children's environment are currently in place in the daily offer law, in the working environment rules and in the building regulations, and there are also a number of rules and guidelines, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204530	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204544	This proposal follows very well on from the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, on which we voted earlier today, on the indoor climate in schools. I believe, and I can also hear from the other rapporteurs, that we all agree that it is important that there is a good working environment for children and not just for adults. We also have a lot of rules and we have a lot of regulations. I do not really believe that this is what needs to be worked on, because it should not be bureaucracy, but it should be real tools for real action. I must then admit here that I have actually worked with the working environment and indoor climate for many years before I was elected in here. When I worked out in the day care centres and schools with indoor climate problems, it seemed somewhat baroque in some way to take into account a teacher in a classroom or three teachers in the kindergarten group, because they were the ones for which the health and safety rules applied, and that was what the Factory Inspectorate controlled. Of course, we also took account of the children, but we were primarily concerned with the Working Conditions Act, and it was argued in relation to whether, for example, there was a change in the working environment. should be extra ventilation or extra cleaning, with the specific requirements of the Working Conditions Act. Fortunately, as has also been mentioned, it is usually the case that there will be a teacher present in the teaching room or educators present in the day institutions, and if there are so many children that CO2 There is already a great deal of knowledge in this area, among other things. on how indoor climate influences children's learning in school. It was also discussed earlier on the basis of our proposal, and that is really, really crucial. It can actually mean a difference that corresponds to a whole year of learning over a primary school period, depending on whether the indoor climate is bad or good. That is why it is not something that can be seen with indifference, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party would also like to support the systematic acquisition of more knowledge, so that we have a basis for really setting limit values. It is not because we need to have new legislation, but we just need to know what it really is that applies to children when you come out and have to assess, for example. The noise level in a day care centre according to the rules we have today, which apply to adults and are measured for adults. We think it is quite reasonable to say that we must of course know so that we can do it properly. Then we are not really ready to drop money, as the proposal says. I believe that today's demands for both schools and day care institutions are actually quite high. So if you meet those requirements, I do not think that there will be any need to allocate extra money. When we get the result of what the specific requirements should be in the future, we can discuss whether or not there is a need to do something special. However, as a starting point, I do believe that you just have to meet the requirements that already exist. Of course, not doing so is not a reason for dropping extra money. So we want to help look at what the requirements should be forward-looking and what the levels are in relation to making a real health and safety assessment, and of course it is neither educators nor teachers who should be able to make that assessment. The occupational health and safety professionals who already come out must do so. The Factory Inspectorate comes out and, of course, has something to do with it. They cannot then deal with the children today because they do not actually know what the borders are. If we were to be able to set those requirements so that we can have not only adult requirements but also child requirements, then we must deal with what the consequences may be of the knowledge we get at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204944	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519204954	The kids are the most important thing we have. Most children are many hours a day in daily offers, and that makes day institutions some of the most important institutions we have. I myself, like the proposers, am stunned by the curious fact that we have rules for the working environment of adults which do not apply to children. There is something a little strange about this, and I agree with the authors of the motion that the children's environment is really important. The only question is whether we need new rules or whether the day-off law is actually good enough. It is already an important part of the purpose of our day care that children should have a good physical, mental and aesthetic environment for children. It means a lot to me that it is not just the physical environment for children, although it is often what we talk about. The psychic and aesthetic is also a prerequisite for children to develop into curious people, full of courage and faith in themselves and in each other. We already have a number of rules for air and noise both in the daily supply law and in the health and safety law, and in addition there are guides and programmes and leaflets with inspiration to reduce noise levels and improve the indoor climate. That's why we're not there right now when I'm thinking that we need to make more rules. And when we have to prioritize, more educators and, above all, further education are on my wish list. The real question is whether it is not going to give the children even more that we are going to do this with pedagogy rather than the working environment. At any rate, I dream that we will have much more out-of-school education in our daycare centres, where children discover outside, get excited curiosity and their senses, where there are many more bonfire cabins, where there is in general high ceilings and plenty of fresh air. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519205214	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Rosa Lund as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519205235	I would like to start by thanking the Socialist People's Party for having tabled this resolution. In the Enhedslisten, we have worked for a long time to obtain independent legislation for children, that is to say for the 0-6-year-old area, a children's environmental law, and we see this proposal as a very good step on the road. We are also really happy that SF is now working in this direction, as opposed to when we in the Enhedslisten proposed this a few years ago. Thank you so much for making the proposal. I can immediately reveal that we in the Enhedslist support it. I think it is a very good idea to start with a study, and then we can then see what makes the most sense, i.e. whether it makes the most sense to make changes in the day-to-day law, or whether it makes the most sense to create an independent child-environment legislation. A few years ago, the Children's Council conducted a study that showed that the indoor climate was too bad in Danish daycare institutions. In the study, children from 4 to 7 years of age had responded to how they experienced the indoor climate. The children, for example, stayed. asked whether they thought there was too much noise and noise in their kindergarten. So it was 41 per cent. of the children who answered yes. They simply thought there was too much noise. I think it is a little amazing that we are allowing our children a bad indoor climate. Many children spend most of their day in day care institutions, and I think that even if you haven't started school yet, you also have the right to a good indoor climate; even if you haven't started a job yet, you also have the right to a good indoor climate. The legislation on health and safety guarantees the conditions of educators and assistants in the day-care institutions, but we do not have anything to safeguard children's rights. And I think that is a little strange, because as several people have said, and as we often say when we discuss the 0-6-year-old area in this Parliament, children are one of the most precious things we have. And when things are as bad as the Children's Council showed, as the teachers' union has demonstrated several times, I think that as politicians here at Christiansborg we have a responsibility to act. I think it is strange that we can have a health and safety law and a law on the environment, but not a child-environment law, so that there are no rights for children before they start school. You are not born to start first class; you have just a few years before, when you are in day care or crèche and in kindergarten. In the Enhedslisten we see that a children's environmental law or changes in the daily offer law could contain the same tools as there are in the Working Conditions Act, that is, that they could also be used in the day care area; that what is called workplace assessments in the Working Conditions Act was translated into kindergartens and crèches and the day care area, and that sanctions were also made, just as there are in the Working Conditions Act, to the municipalities that do not live up to a proper indoor climate. It is also very surprising to us in the Enhedslisten that one does not have the sanction in the Education Environment Act, but that it is only something one has in the Working Environment Act. This is something that we in the Enhedslist have been working for a long time to be translated into the Education Environment Act, and we would also like to see it translated, if you can put it that way, into the children's area. However, we support this motion for a resolution in the Enhedslisten, and we look forward very much to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519205617	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519205620	In the Liberal Alliance, we know that most parents are the best managers of their children's well-being. Whether we buy shoes or food or choose a day care center, we are critical. We want the best for our children. That is why we basically believe that families themselves should have the best framework for being family and choosing their own framework. We will give all families a greater economic space that they can use for themselves as they please. While some will spend the extra money on housing or clothing, others may spend it on a little extra help in the house. It's up to the families themselves. LA has presented a well-worked proposal in the area of day care, which will give parents quite different opportunities to decide for themselves. Instead of being subject to the local authorities' planned financial placement, all institutions must appear on a website which the municipality is obliged to keep up-to-date. All institutions must give up key figures for employees such as standardisation, absenteeism, level of training and employee flow. The institution's pedagogy must also be reported. In this way, parents can choose much more easily, and light will be shed on those institutions that do not work and which today receive families that have been referred and who do not have a surplus and an overview to look for the information themselves. We will also give families the opportunity to look after their very young children at home in the first year if the parent concerned has gone from work to maternity. What we do not want is further bureaucracy of the care area. Every time we sit at Christiansborg or in the municipalities and make new rules, fewer resources really come out for the children. SF is a party that often speaks against bureaucracy but, as this proposal shows, it is also a party that would like to introduce more bureaucracy. As long as it's SF's bureaucratic rules, it's obviously okay. How do you imagine in the SF that you should take care of the rules for, for example, temperature in kindergarten? Do you imagine in the SF that educators in the whole country turn down the temperature to bother our children? The comments on the motion for a resolution refer to a study drawn up in relation to the indoor climate in schools. This study has shown that children learn better if the room has been well ventilated. That's right. But how SF will transfer this to kindergarten is unclear. First of all, children in nurseries and kindergartens often stay outside a large part of the day. Secondly, they do not sit still at a table to concentrate and learn. If the SF believes that kindergarten children are now about to sit inside all day and learn something, it is certainly new to us. In LA we want to improve the framework for young children, we want the best for the smallest, but we do not believe that SF's bureaucratic rules on ventilation and temperature are the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519205924	Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519205930	Thank you. We agree with the proposers that it is important to have a good indoor environment for our children in the country's day care institutions. Fortunately, there is also a focus on this when municipalities either build new buildings or renovate. As such, we do not object to examining limit values for a good child environment in relation to noise, temperature, etc., but we cannot support the fact that, as described in the motion for a resolution, the results of a study should be written in advance into relevant legislation, for example. the day-offer law. It must be a precondition that, in the course of a study, whatever form it takes, there will be subsequent discussions before anything changes. We cannot pre-authorise legislative changes on the basis of studies that we do not know the outcome of. The Socialist People's Party's proponents expect that there will be a financing requirement of 200-300 million. kr. These will be included in the 2016 Finance Act. Here, too, we cannot pre-empt funds of the order of magnitude of a future Finance Act, which we hope, but, after all, we do not yet know whether we have any influence on. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519210042	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Mach from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519210052	Thank you for the debate. Noise and too many children stowed together in far too little space can affect the well-being and learning of children. Nevertheless, in crèches and kindergartens, young people do not have any law or regulation to protect them from a bad working environment, and that is what the SF would like to change with this resolution. We believe it is absurd that in 2015 we do not have some kind of child environmental law that corresponds to the adult health and safety law, especially when we know that noise, high CO2 It is amazing and remarkable that the children themselves are experiencing problems with the indoor climate. You might have an idea that they are preoccupied with everything else and not even notice if there is a lot of noise, bad air or very hot. However, the Children's Council did a study back in 2012, and in it replied 41 per cent. of the approx. 1.000 children in kindergarten aged 4-6 were questioned, that there was too much noise in their kindergarten. The study also shows a connection between general well-being and the individual child's experience of the indoor climate, and it turns out that a significantly larger proportion of children who do not like being in their kindergarten experience problems with the indoor climate in the same place. Those children who don't think it's a nice place to be experience to a greater extent that there's too much noise and noise. They feel to a lesser extent that they have a place to go to find peace. They find that the lighting is bad and that it smells ugly. I guess that's a knowledge that we can't ignore. It is not fair that children who are already not happy to be in kindergarten should also experience problems with the indoor climate. If we can give them a better everyday life by improving the indoor climate, I think we should do so. The Factory Inspectorate also recommends certain limit values for CO2 The Factory Inspectorate also recommends that no noise loads of more than 85 dB or peaks of pulses above 137 dB should be exposed. These limits are based on an assessment of what is bad for adults, but we have no idea whether these borders are suitable for young children. The least we can do is get the case evaluated. Children also have a working day like most other citizens, they just do not benefit from the same protection. We must have examined, we believe, at least in SF, whether the limit values for sound and CO2 should otherwise be regulated accordingly so that we can provide proper conditions. I am really pleased to hear that both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten will actually support this study of whether the limit values we know also work for young children. We know, of course, that noise can cause permanent hearing damage to children and that it can affect concentration, memory, learning and language understanding, and we must take this seriously when we want to have such a massive child focus in this House that we, fortunately, want to join together. It is also important because day care institutions need to include more and more different children, including part of a group of children who previously received special offers, for example. children who have diagnoses such as adhd and Asperger syndrome. These are children who may already have difficulty concentrating and can be particularly sensitive to sound and light. If they are to be included in general day care institutions, we must set a proper framework and ensure their well-being. Inclusion is not just to accommodate children with special needs, it is to include children in communities and also ensure them well-being and development. So our proposal is that we should start with a study. Let us check whether the limit values for sound and CO2 We will use the study to decide how to ensure a good working environment for children, and when we know the limits that apply to children, we can of course assess whether it is most appropriate to make legislative changes in one way or another, as long as we secure the children in the best possible way. Fortunately, we know that a number of institutions have launched initiatives with silencers, ventilation and so on, and that is very good, but we also know that in some day-care institutions this is not the case. I had hoped that there would be broad support in the Folketing to investigate what indoor climate conditions we should offer and ensure our children, so that we can give them a good daily life in the day care institution. That was not quite the case, but again thanks to Enhedslisten and DF for being on the look at getting this survey. We believe in SF that it is not the responsibility of the educators to assess whether CO2 This is what we believe professionals with knowledge of this kind should be involved in assessing. Whether children's right to a proper working environment should be part of the day-to-day law, educational curricula or something else, we can discuss when we get there when we know the limit values that are right for children. The point is that in SF we think that the children are entitled to this work environment, and that this is something we should be involved in regulating in the Folketing. So let's find some way to get it checked out. Let us then discuss politically how we can change our rules so that we have something to measure on the basis of and so that, as parents or educators, we can react and demand action if there are problems in a daycare institution. Otherwise, it won't bat, but it'll stay with the fine intentions. I hope that in committee we will be able to take a few steps forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519210556	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate on this proposal is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519210616	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 21 May 2015. I give the floor to Mrs Trine Mach, the rapporteur for the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519210649	Thank you. The reason for calling this question debate is actually quite simple. In Enhedslisten and SF, we believe that we also have to recognise at Christiansborg what many citizens, organisations and actors say, namely that Danish families for children need a better framework to make family and working life hang together and go into a higher unity. They also say that there is a need for political attention and action, and in fact we have little difficulty in seeing what is being done by Christiansborg for the many families who whip off every day to pick up and look after children and take care of work. Family policy solutions are not easy and we are not looking for small and fast patch solutions. We would like to have a broad political discussion which will hopefully lead to broad political solutions in cooperation with those actors in society that need to be involved. We would therefore like to start by asking the government to explain its family policy in general and how it intends to do something for pressured families of children in Denmark with an imbalance between work and family life, including what initiatives the government intends to take, and the government's attitude to the opportunities, for example, for a better distribution of work and for caring days, following a model of Swedish and other inspiration from the surrounding countries. It is our hope that the government, like SF and Enhedslisten and hopefully several parties in the Danish Parliament, will be involved in discussing further measures for the benefit of Danish families with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519210811	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519210819	Thank you, President. Thanks also to the SF, Mrs Trine Mach, and to Enhedslisten's Mrs Rosa Lund for raising an interesting and complicated issue that I think everyone in this Chamber is concerned with. It is crucial that you as a family in Denmark experience great security in your everyday life, that you have the opportunity to do your job and get help if you need it, and that you basically have the opportunity to make your everyday life go up. Therefore, the government focuses on ensuring that families have the opportunity and a good framework to make personal choices in the organisation of everyday life. The core of the government's family policy is a belief in the Danish model and to ensure good welfare institutions in Denmark, which allow families to create a satisfactory family and working life based on their own needs, priorities and wishes. When I talk about good welfare institutions for families with children, I think it very broadly. It is of course important that we in Denmark have good day-to-day offers, where parents can safely deliver their children in the morning, and it is also important that there are good maternity arrangements, financial support for families with children and good schools. But there are also many other relationships around the families that must, of course, work. This is true, for example. a good and effective health system, good transport opportunities, security in working life and support for those families who need a little extra help in life. Our day offer has a very important role to play for the well-being of children and families. Parents must be comfortable in delivering their children in the morning, and children must experience the care and attention they need while developing and learning. The government is also very concerned about this, and this is an area that we have given priority to. We have done so with the SF and Enhedslisten. We have prioritised a total of 750 million. kr. annual to quality and more educational staff in daily offers. In other areas too, we have worked to improve the framework for families with children. We have, for example. Increased the employment allowance for single parents, created better opportunities for parents to care for children with long-term or chronic illnesses, implemented a reform of primary school so that more people can learn more, set aside 280 million. kr. to help vulnerable children and young people and their families and to eliminate poverty benefits, which led to children growing up in poverty. And these days, we are putting the finishing touches to an initiative that focuses on strengthening the quality of day-to-day offers. The purpose of the playout is, among other things, to: ensure that all children thrive in their everyday lives, acquire good linguistic skills, that parents are more involved in their children's everyday lives and that more children experience a smooth and smooth transition to school. Over the last four years, therefore, the government has continued to focus on creating a better framework for families with children, and we will, of course, continue to do so. I know, of course, that it is very difficult for some families, as we have also heard from the rapporteurs, to make things work together. But basically, I believe that making family life coherent is very much about making choices and giving priority to what is most important in one's life. I myself have been there and I know how important and how difficult it can be to prioritise. But if we don't want to choose a career and have exciting leisure interests, see your friends and be something for your kids, then you're busy, and I think it doesn't really matter what kind of framework we set up from in here. For then there are just a lot of choices, and it is important for me to maintain that the decision on how the individual family priorities can be the family's own choice. The government cannot and must not interfere in how individual families choose to organise their time and their economy. Having said that, I also think that we in Denmark have a very good framework for the families to make the choices that fit exactly with them. For example: The OECD has made a comparison of family and working life in 20 OECD countries, and the comparison shows, among other things, that Danes work significantly less than people do in the countries around us. On average, an adult works 200 hours less every year than in the other OECD countries. Now the rapporteur for the questioners himself referred to Sweden and the matter of being inspired by Sweden: we work 75 hours less than in Sweden. The comparison also shows that we are the country with the most leisure time. Another interesting study from the Rockwool Foundation has shown this, and I personally find it very interesting that families today have about as much free time as they had 45 years ago. So, in reality, the families of children have not become more busy in terms of work. When we experience being more busy than before, it may be related to some other conditions, for example. our ambitions to be successful on all parameters, and, as I also mentioned earlier, that we may have more choices to take and more opportunities in life. Personally, I believe that much of the work to reduce stress among families with children is about us parents being much better at accepting that we cannot achieve everything. The author of the questions also asks about the government's attitude to a model of caring days similar to that of Sweden. Care days are a better distribution of work ■ conditions traditionally agreed in Denmark between the social partners, and that is also the model that we support in the government and which we do not immediately plan to challenge. But, of course, I have asked the Ministry of Employment for a calculation of the cost of introducing a model whereby Danish parents can hold the same number of days of care as Swedish parents do on average, at a rate which corresponds to the maximum rate of sickness benefit. The Ministry of Employment estimates conservatively, but nevertheless estimates with the uncertainty that may now exist in the fact that it will cost annually in the region of 2.1 billion. kr. It's after all a big piece of money. The Ministry of Employment also estimates that if Denmark is to have a model in which parents in Denmark can receive full pay throughout the child's illness, it will again with considerable uncertainty cost in the order of 2.6 billion. kr. a year, which is also a big piece of money. At a time when there is a desire to improve conditions in many other welfare areas, I think we should consider whether this is the best way to spend the money. In addition, I also think it is a pity that the discussion on balancing family and working life should be reduced to dealing with the number of caring days. Balance is about a lot of other things, for example. organisation of work at the individual workplace and the possibilities for flexible work organisation. These are matters organised by the management at the individual workplace, and I think it is important that we have a debate on how jobs can organise work to meet the needs of families with children. We are many partners who must contribute to creating a good framework for families with children, both the social partners, management in the workplace and municipalities and the state. From the government's point of view, as I said, we are focusing on ensuring good welfare institutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519211605	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519211623	Thank you. I really want to, even if it's Tuesday night at. 21.16, to start by saying that I have actually been very much looking forward to this question debate. Because I think that we in the Folketing are lacking and lack political discussion of family policy measures. And that is why I am rather annoyed that the Minister may not be fully open to discussing some of what we are proposing and perhaps not going to act on it at all. Because, in our view, it is not a private matter that is solved solely by a single run less or by slightly lower ambitions in the career-oriented families of children. This is basically a structural and political problem. Too many families with children in Denmark find it difficult to make family and working life work together. We in Denmark have a relatively shorter working week compared to other countries, but in terms of families we actually work quite a lot. And countless studies have shown that the Danes think they work too much. Over 50%. believe that their work fills too much in mind when they are off duty. Almost every three Danish parents experience two or more times a week that their work is incompatible with the plans on the home front. Studies carried out by Analyse Denmark have shown this. At the same time, studies show that Danes would like to work less. A family researcher from RUC, Thomas Boje, shows in studies that men would like to work 6-7 hours less and that women would like to work 4-5 hours less a week. And if there is any doubt, the family is the most important thing in the life of the Danes when it comes to assessing it. A study from a think tank has shown that 68 per cent. points to the family as the most important thing in their lives. In comparison, only 4% indicate that the work is the most important. We also need to discuss family policy measures for the children, because, as Per Schultz Jørgensen has said, the family needs to be well in order for a child to thrive, and vice versa, a child needs to be well in order for the family to thrive. ▪ The family is the framework for a good child life, and that is one of the reasons why we need to ensure good conditions for families with children in Denmark. The sooner we start, the greater the probability that we can prevent minor problems from growing big. The famous economist and Nobel Prize winner James Heckmann has shown this with the well-known Heckmann curve. And the point is this: early bets pay off, both for the children and for the economy. A few weeks ago there was a family policy conference here at Christiansborg, and then Dennis Kristensen from the FOA said that both the trade union movement, employers and politicians are key players in making family and working life work together. I fully agree, and I am rather annoyed that the Minister is not listening to it. For enough, family policy is difficult, because it affects many interests and policy areas... how much and how we work is determined by the social partners... but that is precisely why it is so important that the FOA actually says that it is a challenge and that it is necessary that Christiansborg also plays along when we have to solve this complex challenge. So let us now be a little visionary and involve experts and stakeholders who can help look at models and opportunities for example. part-time, caring days, leave arrangements and the bank for working time. They must help to see how our working life can become more flexible so that it can be better reconciled with family life. For example: one could do something about the poor organisation where people in the late 20s and in the 30s and 40s both have to work very hard and try to find time for their children, while younger people who have not had children, and older people who have grown children, have both more time and perhaps also more desire to give it an extra head on the job or to look after grandchildren. In the SF we have previously proposed a time bank. It might be interesting to look again at this type of flexibility over life. We need to improve the organisation of work and family life also on family terms and not just on employers' grounds. If we create a good framework for work and family life, it will also benefit employers in the form of even more efficient, hardworking and happy employees. So let us try to look at Sweden and their model, where parents have 30 caring days a year to look after sick children. It is financed through a fund. Parents receive 80% of the basic income. of their salary. We think it is an interesting model, which may be able to inspire and adjust to Danish conditions. Then I think we should go back and look at the recommendations of the Family and Labour Commission. I guess none of them have been followed up, and it is a little forgotten. In fact, we should discuss that more here at Christiansborg. Then I would like to say that family policy is also about care, maternity, the elderly and equality. It is a well-known fact that the SF wants earmarked maternity leave for men. We also think that this is a matter of family policy, as is care, the elderly and gender equality policy in a broad sense. And it's clear that when we discuss this, we shouldn't make any moves to roll back equality. After all, we have fought hard for it, and we still have to fight for it. But all these measures are something that helps to strengthen and improve conditions in families. So I would say that I really hope that we can find a model in which we will have these discussions taken politically too. It is simply not the case that it is the responsibility of the individual family alone. It is not something that can be solved with fewer yoga lessons or fewer homemade spelt balls. It is a social problem, a structural problem and therefore also a political challenge that requires political solutions • solutions that ensure a family life in balance between work and family, children's well-being and development, a well-functioning and strong labour market that is effective without causing stress and taking particular account of gender inequalities. We would very much like to be able to discuss in this Chamber whether we cannot meet for a discussion with the social partners in order to find solutions which go a little beyond the ordinary Christiansborg Polemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212134	Was there not a proposal for adoption to be included?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212137	Oh, I'm sorry! Yeah, it's right in front of me. I'm sorry I got so stressed out by the President getting up. I'll read it out. There is, in fact, a proposal for adoption, and on behalf of the two authors of the questions, namely SF and EL, I am going to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that many Danish families of children are facing challenges in reconciling family and working life, and that there is a need to find political solutions • solutions that ensure a family life with a balance between work and leisure, family, children's well-being and development, as well as a well-functioning and strong labour market that is effective without causing stress and takes particular account of gender inequalities. Parliament therefore invites the government to convene the parties of the Folketing in the next parliamentary assembly to discuss solutions. This will include a discussion on which recommendations of the Family and Labour Commission (2007) may be relevant and feasible in 2015, e.g. time bank, better flexibility in terms of day care, better opportunities for part-time work and leave arrangements. Inspiration and experience should be sought from relevant countries. And the trade union movement and employers must be involved in a dialogue on solutions relating to the labour market. • V 55).
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212243	Of course, the read-out proposal for adoption by the two asking parties is part of the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212255	It is true, as Mrs Trine Mach says, that parents in Danish families of children actually work quite a lot. And some notable figures are behind this: the fact that fathers work less in Denmark than they do in other countries, while mothers work considerably more than they do in other countries. Together, the Danish parents work more than parents in most other countries. Do SF sometimes wonder why the Danish families feel compelled to work so much? Does SF sometimes wonder that this may be due to the fact that they have to make a lot of money to the state through their taxes before they can make money for themselves and their children?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212348	Of course, we in the SF also wonder why families with children have to run extra hard to make things work together both in family terms and in financial terms. We just do not see it in this way that we should make money for the state, but that we should make money for ourselves and the welfare model with which we have organised ourselves and where we have covered our hospital visits, our schooling and our medical visits through the common welfare system we have now set up. I think that a great many Danish families really pay their taxes with pleasure, precisely because, no matter what the wallet looks like, they are guaranteed to be able to get to the hospital, to get to a doctor, to go to school and to take an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212430	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212433	We can then have different views about this, i.e. whether they pay their taxes with pleasure or whether they pay their taxes because otherwise they go to prison. But that doesn't change the situation, and I actually think that there was an admission from Mrs Trine Mach that they work so much because they have to make so much money to pay their taxes before they can make money for themselves and their children. In other words, it is simply necessary to have a certain standard of living for a family that one works enormously because the state takes a very large share and a larger share than the state of any other country in the world does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212508	The rapporteur now put a whole word and intentions into my mouth. What I said was that there are a great many Danish families of children running very hard to make the family economy stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212518	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is Mrs Tina Nedergaard as the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519212532	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss an active family policy. I think there have been many good observations, including from the Minister, and I also understand very well the rapporteur for the questioners. You can worry a tiny bit about how pressured the families of children are. We are almost all guilty of the fact that we can have a little difficulty combining work and family. But that does not change the fact that it is our own decision, how hard we want to push our everyday lives, and that with options there are also some opt-outs. The Left is a liberal party, and our main concern is not the family with two parents who think they are a little busy • It's a lot of people who have • but who, in turn, have a good housing and secure environment around their family and can offer their children opportunities that are average or even above average. The prerequisite for a child to have a good youth and adult life is, to a large extent, that the parents are in the job, and our concerns are more concerned about that. The best thing we can actually do for Danish children, I believe, is to show that their parents are needed in an active working life, that there are good education for them, that there is good continuing training for them and that we support it in the best way possible from here. That is also why we in the Left are not nearly as likely to find the institutional solutions for the family and go in and say that the fathers must take more leave and believe that it will then be a family in well-being. That is not certain at all, because if the mother's income is the lowest, it may be that they are pressed further. I also think that Mr. Liberal Alliance... Ole Birk Olesen asked a completely relevant question: Why is it that you work so much? There is something bizarre about the women in Denmark working so much, and I also think that men work well. Yet people feel a little pressured. That's among other things. Because of the high tax burden. That's because every time there's a challenge in Danish society, we have to meet in here to say: What do we do But now try to hear here: We generally have a well-educated population. Generally speaking, we have some good educational opportunities. We have free access to the basic welfare benefits. Our primary concern is not with those families where you are a little too busy. Our primary concern in family policy is that there are too many children who do not have conditions that are sufficiently good for them to have a certain degree of confidence in a good youth and adult life. Therefore, in so far as resources in Danish society can be released for this, we will always give priority to the most vulnerable families rather than to the ordinary family. What we can do, in return, for the average family is among other things. I would like to acknowledge that other parties have also highlighted what choices you have as a family, among other things. with regard to day-care options. We would also like to support more private offers, and we would very much like to ensure that those parents who have a child with special needs are perhaps some of the families that are the most pressured and have a larger and freer choice, among other things. of free schools, where they can get the money. Then I would like to stress that at no time, whatever the title may be, will the Left contribute to reducing the workforce at a time in our society where we need the exact opposite, and we will not, for the sole reason that if we are to succeed in relieving families and the individual employee, who is also a mother or father, it requires that we get some more people going at work, whether in the public or private sector. On behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I am going to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The families are the best ones to set up the framework for their family life themselves, not the state. Experience also shows that employers and employees themselves are better at creating flexibility and a good framework for both family and working life rather than the state. This is true, for example. the possibility of organising maternity leave or the choice of a private carer rather than a public carer. The families themselves must make the choices that suit them. The Danish Parliament recognises that many families with children experience a busy everyday life where reconciling family and working life can be a challenge. Particularly for families with children with special needs, greater freedom of choice is needed. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to provide children and young people with special needs with the possibility of a freer choice of school, where the money follows the child's admission to free primary schools. V 56). I'm sorry, President. I was able to add something along the way. We have to look at the number of words, and then we have to reduce it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213131	The proposal for adoption read out on behalf of four parties is part of the further negotiations. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213144	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not recognise at all that there are structures that go beyond the individual family's ambitions about the amount of homemade buns or leisure interests or something that determines how to organise the balance between family life and working life. What about, for example, a nurse with night shifts who is married to a police officer who also has night shifts or crooked guards? What do they decide for themselves? There is little flexibility in getting the two jobs and a family together. Is it not the rapporteur's view that we have a responsibility here at Christiansborg to ensure that such families also have the opportunity for a better balance between work and family life?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213230	The short answer is no. Because we should not organise in here when changing working groups on the labour market will meet at work. I wouldn't dream of getting involved in that. It is the case that we also have to have nurses in the hospitals at night. We cannot change that politically. We can't tell a nurse that she doesn't have to work at the hospital at night because she's married to a policeman. It's no use. After all, there is also responsibility for the individual. But what we can do is that, for example, we can do something about it. can re-establish the housing job scheme so that the family has the possibility of a deduction and can be more easily relieved of daily practical activities so that they can concentrate on the children when they get home. What we can also do is to give freer access to the choice of childcare services between private and self-serving institutions and municipal supply, so that flexible arrangements can be made. We can help with that, but when the nurse and the policeman work, I don't think we should interfere at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213326	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213330	Then I have to ask the question again: the rapporteur claims that it is for the individual family alone to ensure that there is a proper balance in how to organise themselves in the family. The question then is: Are you completely free to do so if you are, for example, a family where one is working as a nurse with night shifts and the other is a police officer with night shifts just as an example? Is this a private matter alone, or could one from a political point of view help to ensure flexibility for this family to make things more coherent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213402	Now I simply assume that both the nurse and the policeman are really capable, competent people in their profession. That is why, of course, the respective employers with whom they are employed will not say quite icyly: now you will listen; we know that both of you are at risk by having night work every night, so we just make sure that you do. What I see in the labour market, and it is both in the public and private sectors, is that it is very aware that having qualified and skilled employees also requires flexibility from the employer, but we just cannot legislate out of it and what we do in this room is to legislate. I am happy to leave it to private and public employers, in cooperation with workers, to find concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213440	Mrs Rosa Lund, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213444	Thank you. After all, this question debate is not about skilled employees in the public sector. I think we all agree that our nurses and our police officers are very, very talented. The question that Enhedslisten and SF are trying to raise with this debate is how to ensure proper conditions for having a family in Denmark. I am curious to know whether the Left does not believe that there is anything we can do from in here as politicians, as legislators, to ensure that families with children have a less stressful everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213523	Well, I certainly think so. I mean, I mentioned two things, for example. The housing job scheme, which can relieve the family of the practical to-dos, agrees that we would like to look at the • and so I also believe that greater flexibility in the choice of care options will help to create flexibility. I haven't personally been able to get it covered by me being one of those lone mothers, we're talking a lot about in here with the municipal offer, it's kind of like itself. It has then had the cost that I have chosen something private in addition. We make some choices as parents, and if we could relieve ourselves in here in a meaningful way, I wouldn't mind in principle. I just don't really believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213608	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213611	As the day-care law is combined today, there are plenty of different care options: day-care, municipal day-care, crèche, private day-care, private children's carers, kindergartens, public, self-serving and municipal institutions. Well, we really have a lot of different care provision, and yet we find that the families of children are really, really stressed and really pressed, and I think that's something about this care provision thing that doesn't solve it. So I'm curious to know if the Left has any bids other than the housing job scheme and the care we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213650	We can say that this is the world's most important problem every time we meet in the Chamber, but we believe in the Left that we need to give priority to where we put our efforts and where we use our resources. And it is well known that every time we interfere in the labour market conditions gives access to part-time work etc. And full compensation on pay then it costs. There I would just like to say from the Left that when it comes to family policy, our main priority is with the resources that might be released under one government or another government, it is not really my business here that they are primarily used where the greatest challenge is for Danish families. And it is the vulnerable families, and then it is the families where the child, for example. have special needs. That is why, in our proposal for adoption, we stress that they must have more freedom of choice than they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213739	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Julie Skovsby as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519213749	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the parties behind the question. The conditions of the families are a central part of what we Social Democrats are fighting for. It is about good institutions and schools, it is about a strong healthcare system and it is about a strong economy and a flexible labour market. One of our first deeds when we took over responsibility in 2011, together with SF and Enhedslisten, was to abolish VKO's poverty benefits. This meant that some of the poorest families in Denmark got just a little more air in the economy, and this meant that the number of poor children in this country fell. It was good for the families. We also abolished the user fee for involuntary infertility introduced by the Left, Conservative and Dansk Folkeparti, a user fee which meant that in 2011 900 fewer children came into the world here in Denmark than would otherwise have done. It was good for the families. Furthermore, we have cancelled the otherwise planned savings on the children's cheque that VKO had voted through. The children's check must be for all children and not just for children no. 1 and 2. It was good for the families too. Our policy has meant that the number of families being put on the streets has fallen year by year. It's really good for many families. In psychiatry, the waiting period for children and adolescents has fallen from 72 days in 2011 to 30 days last year. It goes without saying that it is also good for families with a mentally vulnerable son or daughter. In the institutional field, I am proud that we, together with the SF and Enhedslisten, have prioritised a total of 750 million. kr. a year to higher quality and more educational staff in our day offer. And our new initiative to enhance the quality of the day offers is on the move. Especially when it comes to small children's families, it is to ensure a good and strong day offer from my point of view. Because when the balance between working life and family life is to be one of higher unity, we as parents need to be sure that our children are well off in the hours we are working ourselves, as well as good parental cooperation can also help to achieve a better balance. Some of what has recently become almost synonymous with family policy at least when you open a newspaper is caring days and leave opportunities. At the Social Democrats we are strong supporters of the Danish model. This is among other things. Therefore, in the last financial law we doubled the deduction for professional quotas; we believe that a strong Danish model is a prerequisite for a strong welfare society as we know it. The distribution of work and caring days is something that in Denmark is agreed between the social partners within the framework of the Danish model, and we have no plans to challenge that model. The conditions of the families are very dear to us Social Democrats. A strong and solid welfare society is the framework that provides families with security and security, and we are the guarantor of that. Two proposals have been made for the adoption of the Socialists cannot support any of the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214129	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214153	First of all, thank you to Enhedslisten and SF for putting family policy on the agenda. The family is the most important community unit in society. The first community we form in life is with the family, and the family is the most important foundation of our society. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that the family should decide for themselves how they fit in best. Here the Danish People's Party is thinking that the family itself must organise their maternity leave and choose where they want their children in institution and school etc. In relation to schools and the free choice of schools, there are some challenges that need to be addressed in order for the municipalities themselves to be able to choose whether to allow the grant to accompany the child into the free primary school. A major barrier today is that the municipalities are not obliged to allow the financial contribution of children and young people with special needs in primary school to follow these children and young people in the choice of a free primary school. This means that children and young people with special needs do not have the same opportunities to use the free choice of school and choose a free primary school as other children and young people, and that free primary schools are made financially worse by taking up children and young people with special needs than by taking up other children and young people. It is also a challenge that we have debated in this Chamber in the past. But there are several other challenges in this area. There have also been articles in the daily press. Among other things: Politiken has had a number of contributions on stressful parents and that parents do not spend enough time on their children. I think parents are doing the best they can and can and that some families have more challenges than others. I am thinking in particular of families who struggle with a disabled person or a very sick child on a daily basis and most often have to wait a long time to get help, aids, relief or other. They need urgent clarification rather than waiting a long time for their case to be dealt with. Family life is also about priorities. It is the family's responsibility to prioritise the time they have and to make important decisions in their daily lives. It is society's responsibility and task to create the overall framework. I am thinking here of public transport, safe school roads, schools, care, etc. It is important to help the families who need it, including the sclerosis affected mother who needs extra help in her daily life. In the Danish People's Party we would like to discuss in committee whether there are any initiatives we can take, and we are thinking in particular about how we can make it easier and better for families who have a sick or disabled child. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214451	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214503	Thank you. Many families of children have a busy everyday life, where it can be difficult to make everything work together. It is important that we have good day-to-day offers where children love to be delivered, that we have good maternity arrangements, that we have good schools, that there is a good health system and that there is support for those families who need a little extra help. If I am to highlight in particular two things that we have done together, it is that we have abolished poverty benefits so that fewer children are now growing up in poverty and that we have found 750 million. kr. a year to more and better educators. I think there is good reason to discuss whether we can do even more politically to support the families of children, but I am not sure whether this particular care day is what is at the top of my wish list. This is because, as the Minister also said, it costs more than 2 billion. kr. a year. If I could only change one thing, it should be that children's background cannot decide their future. That must be the goal of our generation of Radicals, as our President, Morten Østergaard, has also said today. That's why the question is, if we actually had these 2.1 or 2.6 billion. kr. in the hand, then would use them on caring days, or if one could imagine that one could do something even more targeted for those children and families who most need it. I believe that there will probably be other things that can make a greater difference. That discussion does not stop here, so even though it may not come out of the debate that SF and Enhedslisten are hoping for, I think we should stop each other from continuing the discussion. I would say that I am a little surprised today that the blue parties have made their motion for a resolution on free schools the seemingly most important matter in the family field, because the proposal breaks with the absolutely fundamental thing about free schools, namely that they are independent, both financially and educationally, of the municipalities. This seems to us in the Radical Left to be of great value, which is why we would like it to remain so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214732	There are three short comments, first Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214739	Thank you and thank Mrs Lotte Rod for her speech. There is one question which I think is somewhat unanswered, because Mrs Lotte Rod has spent a very long time talking about what the Radicals do not want in the family field. But what do you radicals want? I understand that the radical vision is that we share it also in the Enhedslisten that children's background should not mean anything to what they get of opportunities later in their lives, and the Radicals do not think that caring days can be a pawn in this game. But then what can?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214817	Part of that answer lies in the children's play with which we are on the verge and with which I know that Mrs Rosa Lund is really excited to see what is in it. And I must unfortunately disappoint Mrs Rosa Lund and say that she is going to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214830	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214832	I thought that was a rather unsatisfactory answer. I think that Mrs Lotte Rod, whatever is in the government's children's package, could give the Folketing some answers to what the Radicals want with family policy. Mrs Lotte Rod herself says that better maternity arrangements could be an option. Perhaps she could try to elaborate on what it might be; I don't suppose that is something that lies in the government's children's package, but I haven't seen it yet, so I don't know. But perhaps Mrs Lotte Rod could try to give some answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214911	When I give the answer with the children's play, it's because that's what's first and what's going to fill the most for us. After all, there is not much time for the Danish Parliament to go on summer holidays, and that is why the right answer to Rosa Lund is that where we, as the Radical Left and as a government, intend to take action, is with our children's initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214933	Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519214937	The reason I am taking the floor is that I was somewhat provoked by the rapporteur's speech, and I did so in the speech by the Social Democrats. Because you pride yourself on the fact that you've done so much good in this area. But then I just need the rapporteur to confirm that the rapporteur recognises that government policy has increased economic inequality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215016	Is it in relation to the families, or why does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party ask as she does?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215019	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215025	The rapporteur asks, as she does, because the rapporteur's former chairman, Margrethe Vestager, has admitted in Politiken that the many reforms of the government have helped to increase economic inequality, so that economic inequality has increased. So when the rapporteur says that the government has pursued such an excellent policy, it is just that it has to be said that economic inequality has increased. I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215046	Well, what is important to me in this is that we, as a government, have set a target for combating poverty, and it is important to us that there are no longer as many children to grow up in poverty as there were under the previous government. That is also why I emphasise that we have abolished poverty benefits, as one of the great victories, including family policy, because poverty benefits meant that thousands of children grew up in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215119	Then there is a brief remark from Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215123	Thank you, too, for the rapporteur's speech. I'd like to bring something back into focus. The question is about the government's family policy and the balance or imbalance between family life and working life. It is good that the Radical Left is not in favour of this model with several caring days, but it is not in fact in the proposal for adoption; it was an example of something that could be looked at. So will the Radical Left not help us call on the government that may be after the holidays to convene all the parties of the Folketing and the social partners to discuss what we can do to ensure a better balance, including for those families who cannot just decide at home at the dining table, how they make things better?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215208	Yes, I would very much like to take part in continuing this debate, including in the next Assembly, but we do not exactly support the wordings put forward by the SF and the Enhedslisten here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215220	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215223	What is stated in the proposal for adoption is that we should discuss which of the recommendations of the Family and Labour Commission might be updated to 2015. However, it is not particularly restrictive to agree that we would like to be involved in discussing whether there is any of the things we can use, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur again because the rapporteur is, as it were, airing this secret children's play, which has been secret for a long time, but which we certainly do not know is about better standards: is it really a family policy issue with which the government is stalling? Because then I think you should hurry. We all need this very well, because we have some blue parties that at least do not want to pursue family policy with anything but slogans.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215302	Now the SF's rapporteur is also trying to fish a little bit, if you could now lift a tiny bit of the veil about what is in the children's play, and unfortunately I will not. And so I must disappoint the SF rapporteur in the same way as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and say that unfortunately we have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215318	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Rosa Lund as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215330	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we are very pleased that we finally, I would like to say, have family policy on the agenda in here. It has been so lacking. More than half of Danish parents often experience that it is difficult to make family and working life stick together, more and more families with children feel pressured, and stress is a growing problem. It's not a coincidence. As a former rapporteur has also mentioned, the Danes are one of the peoples who deliver most working hours per year. family, and parents work an average of 1 hour more than non-parents, i.e. 1 hour more than people who do not have children. At the same time, the boundaries between working life and private life have become increasingly fluid for many employees. If we compare ourselves with our neighbouring countries, for example. with Sweden and Norway, we can see that the conditions for families with children are significantly better there than they are in Denmark. This applies both to maternity rights, to the right to take leave on children's sick days and to the possibility of reduced working hours. In 2007, the so-called Family and Labour Market Commission barred a number of proposals on how to achieve a better balance between family and working life, but nothing has happened since then. So it is no wonder that, according to a new study, the Danes do not find that politicians take serious account of the families of children. After all, the situation is also reflected in a falling number of children. In 2013, Danish women gave birth to an average of 1.67 children, the lowest since 1989. So we have a falling number of children. I think it says something about the fact that it is not very easy to be a family for children in Denmark that not many people want to be. There is a need for a completely different focus on the conditions of families with children. One of the biggest challenges for Danish families with children is to make family and working life coherent. In the vast majority of families there are two working parents working full-time, and this creates challenges and pressures for families with children. Too many parents carry a lump in their stomach because they feel guilty about the children. A study shows that half of the Danes believe that the children are staying too many hours in their day care institution. It's a total of 41 percent. of the Danes would prefer, according to the study, that one parent could go home with the children if it could be done for them financially. But while for example... Swedish parents have the right to go down to 75%. Part-time, Danish children's parents do not have similar rights. We in Enhedslisten think you should look at that. In the Enhedslisten we also think it is a paradox that, on the one hand, we have a lot of families for children who want to work less, while on the other hand we have a lot of Danes who cannot get a place in the labour market. It is, however, a paradox which we in the Enhedslisten think can be resolved, for example. by making leave arrangements, e.g.: by giving better opportunities for part-time work, just as we also think it would be good if better opportunities were given to look after children who are ill. In Denmark, the right to take paid leave during the first day of illness is determined in the collective agreements, but you are typically only entitled to 1-2 days per day. period of illness. Many parents who do not live near grandparents face great challenges in finding care for their children in the event of illness, and as pension and early retirement age increases, it will not be easier. Parents of sick children often face a dilemma, and a study from 2014 shows that one in three parents has delivered a sick child in the day care institution. So there is such a need to look at parents' right to care for their children during illness. Those conditions need to be improved. Even when it comes to maternity rights, we are really far behind in Denmark if we compare ourselves with, for example. Sweden. In Sweden, families with children are entitled to 69 weeks' maternity leave, each of which is earmarked for 9 weeks, while the other weeks are freely available. Danish parents therefore have more than 4 months shorter maternity leave than parents on the other side of the health. In the Enhedslisten we believe that Danish parents should be granted the same maternity leave as they have in Sweden and with the same earmarking for each sex. Last but not least, a good family life is also a good child life, and we believe in the Enhedslisten that minimum standards should be introduced so that, when children are in day care, there are also some adults who have time for them and time to develop their language and their motor skills. For a good family life and a good child life are linked for us in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215823	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519215832	I think it is a very important debate which is being raised here by the SF and the Enhedslisten. We could've left that one, too. Now it was SF and Enhedslisten who did it instead, and it has led to the rather strange situation in this Chamber that the parties who have raised the debate are moving like the cat about the hot porridge, compared to what the real cause of the problem here is. Because this is a problem that the two parties will not solve. The reason why Danish children's families, who are in a start-up phase, have to spend relatively much money buying homes, cars and clothes for the children and on daycare rates and everything, and the reason why they have to work so much in Denmark, is that Denmark is probably the most expensive country in the world to be a family for children. There are no children's families in the world who pay taxes as high as the Danish children's families, and in order to pay the enormously high taxes in Denmark they will have to work extremely much. But neither the SF nor the Enhedslisten want to reduce taxes on children's families, and therefore they do not talk about that being the cause of the problem. Let me mention four points where Danish families for children are totally heavily taxed compared with other countries. Reason: It is a very typical thing for families with children in Denmark that when parents have had their first child, perhaps their second child, they want to move to a house, and what happens then? Then they suddenly have to pay up to double housing tax for their accommodation, compared to if they stayed in an apartment. The reason is that you will pay as much as double housing tax for a house of the same value as an apartment in the same municipality. So the fact that families have a desire to have a garden for their children, which is very natural, makes them taxed extra hard, even though their housing is not worth more than if they stayed in an apartment. That's one thing. Car registration fee: If you are a family in Denmark, you typically need a car. We need to drive to work, we need to drive home quickly, we need to shop, we need to pick up children in an institution, we need to bring them home, we need to drive children to sports activities, etc. It takes a car. Nowhere in the world do families pay more for a car than in Denmark. It's up to 180%. tax, and the larger a family you are, the bigger a car you need, and therefore it is a much greater value that has to be paid 180 per cent. tax on. But if you are just a single person or two, you can drive in an up!, and there you can settle for 105 per cent. tax and get large deductions. But if you're gonna have a station wagon, it's gonna be slammed in the treasure table. Property value tax: There is a rule that if you are to have a family home in a larger city in Denmark, which costs over 3 million. kr., then you have to pay three times as much property value tax of the value exceeding 3 million. kr., than if you can settle for an apartment that costs less than 3 million. kr. But it is precisely the families of children who need the large houses or the large apartments and therefore need to buy a home that costs more than 3 million. kr. in the major cities of Denmark. If you're outside the major cities, you can get out cheaper, but if you live in Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense or Aalborg, you're living in more than 3 million. kr. No offense, if it's gonna be a family home. So there's triple property value tax. Top treasure: Imagine a family where Mom earns 400,000 kroner, and Dad earns 400,000 kroner. A family like that doesn't have to pay top taxes. But if the family wants to give priority to one of the parents not working so much and the other working something more, so that Mom earns 600,000 kroner. And Dad makes $200,000. For example, where Dad can pick up the children every day at the institution at 1 p.m. 2:00 a.m., top treasure. This means that in the one family where you earn 800,000 kroner. In total, you pay 296,000 kroner. in taxes, because it's equally distributed between mom and dad. But in the other family, where one of the parents works more and the other works less and earns 600,000 kroner. and DKK 200,000, including DKK 800,000, you pay $321,000. in taxes, 25,000 kroner. more tax, because one parent has been chosen to work less than the other. So we have some major challenges here and they can be solved, but not with the policy of the left, only with the policy of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220343	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220348	I would like to express my thanks for a very vivid speech by the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and I would just like to ask whether it has occurred to the rapporteur that if the tax is now reduced, the welfare state may not be able to provide free services to citizens in a large number of areas. If you are going to a hospital, if you are going to a doctor, or if you need someone with a certain type of education in the health service, then it is another type of cost that you have to run hard at work to make money to pay. Has the rapporteur considered this? The registration fee is correct. It is surprising to me that it is also family policy, but then I just want to make a small ad here: Christiania bikes are really good in the community. You also get good exercise from using them, and then you might also save some of the health costs you need to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220437	Well, that simply shows how far the rapporteur and the left here with the SF are removed from reality. The family can just buy a Christiania bike instead of buy a car! Tell me, is the SF completely unknown how necessary a station wagon is in most families, perhaps just apart from those who live at Nørrebro and only have to ride into Christiansborg to get to work? Well, where's SF in the real world? Is that what's going on outside these walls? It's amazing to hear that: Buy a Christiania bike. Then there was the question of whether hospitals and day care facilities are not being cut back. In other words, the Liberal Alliance has put forward a plan which does not contain cuts in service in hospitals or day care centres or the introduction of additional user charges in hospitals or in day care centres, and there are the reliefs that I have spoken for here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220538	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220540	I'm sorry if my attempt to be funny at this late hour bragled off like water on a goose. The Christiania bike thing was mostly for fun. I'm aware of that. I come from West Jutland myself, and there you can't use it to drive to anything. There's the surrounding area very, very large. But I would like to go back to this with what the rapporteur says, namely that we should just let the citizens keep more money in their own pockets, and then everything will be fine. If this is to be linked to the debate we have this evening, which is about finding a better balance between family and working life, then the rapporteur must say that people have to work much less. It is not usually the policy of the Liberal Alliance that everyone has to work much less time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220622	If you lighten the tax at work, some will use it as an extra motivation to work extra, and others will use it to take more time off. This distribution is also included in the ministries' models. There are some who want to take more time off, and people should be welcome to do so. We don't have a desire to whip the families of children to work anymore. We know that when you have young children, you need to keep things together in the past, and therefore we look with great goodwill at the fact that families use a relief from tax to take more time off.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220704	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Would the Minister like to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220713	Thank you for a good debate. It is true, as Mrs Trine Mach says, that at this late hour, you should be careful not to be funny, even though I would like to see Mr. Ole Birk Olesen on a Christiania bike. But I'll have to wait until we may have to get out somewhere. I very much agree that it is important that Danish families have a daily life in which family and working life can be linked. As I also started by saying, I do not think anyone disagrees with that. That's not what I heard either. We are all deeply, deeply concerned about the well and well of our families, but in this way also the framework within which they live. In the government we also give priority to the family area, as I started by saying, and that is why, over the four years, we have launched several initiatives to make it easier to be a family for children in Denmark. As Mrs Lotte Rod also mentioned, we will soon be presenting a proposal, an ambitious proposal, which should make the Danish daily offers even better. Our aim is to create an even better framework for families to make everyday life work together. Having said that, I also believe that a good balance between family and working life is not something that one can simply legislate out of. A great deal of the work is in the workplace and is about the framework of flexibility agreed locally or between the social partners, as the Social Democratic Party also mentioned. It is also about making choices as a family that make it possible to make everyday life coherent. Our task as politicians is to create a good framework for families to make those choices, and I believe that we have done this very much already. It is not only the government that has done so, we do so together, because we do so in many areas. We are doing so in the area of day-care, but we are doing so, as I started by saying when we talk about transport opportunities and so on. etc. So I don't want to talk about that anymore. What I mean is that, as I said, we are doing a great deal of good work, and we must of course continue to do so, because Denmark must be a good country to be a family for children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220930	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday, 21 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150519220943	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 20 May 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
