ParlaMint-DK_20150127130008	The meeting is open. First of all, I have a communication: the Legal Affairs Committee has submitted: a report on data security. 4. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Then there are also some reviews: Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Behnke Behnke (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 58 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increased penalties for harassment of civil servants in leisure, etc.). Pernille Skipper (EL) and Trine Mach (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 59 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the cohabitation requirement in the event of local adoption). Per Clausen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 60 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of phthalates DEHP, DBP, BBP and DIBP). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130117	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 16 by Steen Gade (SF), Thomas Danielsen (V), Jens Joel (S), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Per Clausen (EL) and Mike Legarth (KF), and we can proceed to a vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 88 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and KF), against 17 (DF and LA), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 16 has been adopted. That then means that the motion for a resolution No. V 17 by Mikkel Dencker (DF) and Villum Christensen (LA) have lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130230	I need to know if anyone wants to speak. That does not seem to be the case, and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130245	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130306	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130340	I want to know if anyone wants to speak. That is not the case and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130355	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 outside the report by the Minister for Transport as adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130421	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 29 January 2015, and then I will give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party. I would like to ask you to make necessary conversations outside this room. In here there must be an opportunity to hear the speeches that are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130451	Thank you. Last year, the Danish People's Party raised a debate on value with the aim of having a good and thorough debate about how we feel about our own identity; whether we take it seriously when we think our society is changing; whether our ideals of freedom, such as gender equality and freedom of expression, are being trampled underfoot, i.e. that our freedom of expression is being curtailed because we have started to exercise a self-censorship that is absolutely unacceptable. Self-censorship is not something we are used to in Western societies. It is certainly a large part of a ideal of freedom that one can express oneself within the legislation that is what one wants and that it must be respected. But we do it, and sometimes you can understand it, because someone is going to hurt us when we draw something or say something about something that someone is intensely opposed to. A lot has happened since the Danish People's Party raised this debate a year ago. I have, of course, been reading the speeches before we started this debate, and at that time there was no discussion of the Islamic State, and there was no discussion of terrorism. It wasn't the horrifying things at all. It was really just a retention, which is important enough, of our guarding our culture, our national identity, our Danishness and our values. But now there are extreme groups threatening us, including our values, and it is not only in a remote part of the world, but also in Denmark. As I said, I think that deserves a good debate. Recently, Jyllands-Posten had a poll in which Danes were asked which party they think is best at securing Danish values. There was the Danish People's Party in the lead. But I am not proud of that, although I am, of course, glad that people have grasped our struggle for cohesion, gender equality, trust, democracy, freedom, equality and brotherhood... do your duty and demand your right... so that people understand that this is actually something we stand for, and that it is something we want to stand guard over and protect. However, we would like other parties to share it with us, to support us, to support the Danes, to feel in other parties that this is developing seriously and that we need to change our attitude to some things if we want to go further in the way we know in the Western world and in Denmark, namely that we have our ideals and are struggling to keep them. As I have said, we would very much like to have other parties with us, and that is why we have raised this question debate we have asked the Prime Minister because we think it is natural that the Prime Minister of the country is in charge of this debate to hear what the other parties think about this very, very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130749	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. And then I give the floor to the Prime Minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127130758	Today we are discussing values. Denmark is based on strong values. We have built an entire society rooted in our values, it is the Denmark we know and the Denmark that I think we should be careful of. The questioners focus on value policy as something that is only about foreigners. The government doesn't see it that way. Value policy is something much greater, because values are in many ways the basis of all politics, and therefore differences in values also mean differences in politics, of course. Denmark is a country of great equality, so we have decided that we want it in Denmark; neither gender, bank account nor family background must stand in the way of the individual's opportunities. We are a secure community, that is how we have chosen to organize ourselves, and a large part of what we serve, we have chosen to pay taxes, so that our children and young people can get a good education, and so that you can get help if you are ill. Each of us has extensive freedom, that is the society we have chosen. We can express ourselves and say what we mean, marry who we want and live our lives as we want. Equality, freedom, security and solidarity are my values and the values of the government and, of course, they determine the direction of the decisions we make, and it is from a better effort for the children at risk and how we accept foreigners, over a new primary school to financial responsibility. Yes, values are indeed many things. But values should not be measured by the length or quantity of words. No, values must be measured by concrete actions. Values make a concrete difference. Let me give you an example: Denmark is a small country, but it has never been a good solution for Denmark to shut us up about ourselves. It is precisely our ability to cooperate internationally, to change our societies and to turn challenges into opportunities that have made us a rich country, and in a globalised world we must accept that a human being can well be rooted in two countries. Humans can hold more than they might immediately think. This also means that Danish citizens must be able to retain their Danish nationality even if they move to another country and become nationals there. That's the way it should be, and that's how it's gonna be now. Another example applies to the rights of Danish families. I don't think there's only one real way to be a family. I salute Danish liberalism and freedom. When we have decided that homosexual couples can be married in the public church, it is an expression of our values, and when Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party want to prevent homosexuals from enjoying the same rights as others in relation to marriage and adoption, it is because you have some other values. In today's question, the authors of the question ask that attention be paid to the challenges arising from immigration, which press/force the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and to correct for the sake of immigrants. Basically, I have strong faith in Denmark and in our values, but of course there can be challenges associated with immigration. I think many in this Parliament actually recognize that, and I also believe that many people feel that way. Because problems can arise when people come from other countries and cultures to Denmark, and new questions can be asked. Should you continue to have ordinary Danish food in Danish institutions? My answer is yes. Should we maintain the 24-year rule because we do not want forced marriages? My answer is yes. Are we going to have a position on whether or not Christmas tree is being put up in a housing block? My answer is yes. Because it's all about not feeling strangers in your own apartment block. And, of course, it is quite unacceptable that there are parts of our cities where there are other standards, and it is terrible when there are streets where Jews do not feel they can walk safely when they go there with calot. On the other hand, I do not feel the urge to boycott Føtex because they have a good offer, just as I do not believe that it should be a party to the charge if their programme of principles is translated into Arabic. It is then surprising that the very same party will only have members who are Danish citizens. And I strongly doubt that it is in line with basic Danish values about the robust strength of the rule of law to just flirt with thoughts about emergency law. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and I have been discussing Danishness for many years, and she has once defined Danishness like this and I quote: Danishhed is new potatoes, strawberries with cream and the Jutland West Coast. It sounds nice to have such a summer day, especially on such a little gray day as today. For me it is also Danishness, but it can also be many other things. It is first and last the values that are between us, between people in Denmark. This is the unique way we have chosen to set up our society with prosperity, solidarity and equality; it is our language, our songs, our fun, our humor, yes, you could go on. It is something profound to feel Danish, and it is also for me, and therefore it is important for all of us to take care of what is special about Denmark. Currently we have a debate on freedom of expression. The debate appears in many ways. One might say that we in the more good-natured department have had a debate about TV shows. And no, I do not think that the Danish Parliament should set up a council or board of experts to share all the productions of Danish Radio, which the Danish People's Party has seriously proposed. Freedom of speech is also to give space and space to what we do not like, even when it is Denmark's Radio. But there is also a debate about freedom of expression, which is about the very lifeblood of our democracy. It is a debate about the right to speak freely and it is a debate about freedom for the press. Let me make it clear: neither we politicians nor anyone else should interfere in the work of journalists. Fortunately, what a newspaper wants to print or does not want to print is their own decision. It is no coincidence that the forces who want to destroy democracy are targeting precisely the free word and the free thought. In Paris, we saw a terrible attack on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. Humans were ruthlessly murdered. It's simply horrible. But the response of the people and governments was clear: we will not be threatened. We do not give in, and those who try to attack our values and limit our freedom will not succeed. I sense that support for democracy and freedom of expression is both strong and broad, and fortunately it also comes from many Muslim leaders and citizens. I actually understand the thousands of Danish Muslims who just take care of their things, go to work, train, provide theirs to society, do everything you have to do, are sick and tired of hearing that they are still a problem. And I would also like to take this opportunity today to stress that the terrorist attack in France is not a fight between the West and Islam; it is a joint fight for democracy and against terror and extremism. Here and now there is unrest in the world, there are many refugees coming to Denmark, and it is a challenge that we have to deal with and we must be able to keep up. That is why the government is tightening up the possibilities for family reunification, and that is why we are tightening up the rules on asylum. It's the first time in 12 years that this happens. We are now faced with a new group of refugees, and this time it is because what has happened to the refugees who are already in Denmark? Yes, the fact is that far too many people have ended up on cash aid. We must avoid the mistakes of the past, because our society cannot stand the fact that many people sit at home in the apartment for roll-down curtains and receive cash assistance without being part of society. We do not want a parallel society in which there are values that are completely contrary to what is generally applicable in Denmark, a society in which girls and boys do not have the same opportunities, where parents have to decide who their children are to marry. We want fewer people outside the community and more to become part of the Danish community. That is why I want to make demands on the people who come here, because we must ensure that refugees are not made clients in Denmark. This also means that the new refugees have to work for no matter how long they have to be in this country, then they have to work. I want to change the conditions for refugees and immigrants who are on cash aid, they have to work more for the benefit; it can be in a wage subsidy job, in business practice or in a useful job. The aim is, of course, for them to get a real job. It is also a Danish value that we are not afraid to talk about the problems, nor should we be afraid to do anything about them. I want a community where we make demands on each other and where everyone provides what they can. A safe community is what I understand about the Denmark we know. The Danish values are strong, and I see it as a strong and common responsibility to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127131956	That was the PM's reply. Then we begin the debate itself, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132042	Sorry, it was a little slow, President, but I actually thought that the Prime Minister would use his speaking time, so I was just sitting there listening. But now I'm here. But thank you to the Prime Minister for the answer. I have to say that I was a little surprised, because the question has actually been asked because we want to hear the Prime Minister about the influence of many immigrants and refugees, foreigners and people of other ethnic backgrounds coming to Denmark. And I think the Prime Minister used words on a lot of other things. It is also okay, I take a lot I think that values include social care; I think that the elderly should be well, much better than they are today under this government. I think that culture should have a boost, so that we do not just remember a Minister of Culture for her having closed the Entertainment Orchestra, and so that we have a good primary school, and I could go on and on. But it is clear that what concerns us so much is how we are affected by the fact that there are many people coming to Denmark with a completely different culture, a different background. This has been done at all times, but not in that number for the first time. And secondly, we Danes have not just accepted that we should be subject to the same culture in certain places, that we should bend by bending our necks. That is what I want to see taken seriously instead of taking it a little lightly, i.e. implied: let us now get this debate over with. As I said, this debate is far too important. When there are more postal numbers in Denmark, where there is a greater concentration of people with different ethnic backgrounds than Danes, I think it is getting serious. I think it is serious when you say: we just have a globalised world. Yes, we do. We in the Danish People's Party also acknowledge this, but we are just in favour of controlling this globalisation, because then it can benefit us, there is no doubt about that. I still think you take it too easy. When we raise this debate, we do so because the defence of our values is more important than ever. And I am quite sincere when I say that I would very much like the parties of the Danish Parliament to be able to gather together on this and that we in the Danish People's Party do not want to stand like this more or less alone. Fortunately, and I come back to that, we are putting forward a proposal for adoption together with the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, and I think we can stand together on that. But I also lack a little more commitment on the part of many parties, of course with the Prime Minister in the lead, from the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten, a little more commitment, a little more seriousness in this debate. We just look powerless when young immigrants are recruited as sacred murderers, not holy warriors. There is a warrior of value that is a good word, but a holy warrior is not a good word. Well, you are not when you are trained to murder when you join various extreme movements, when you go from Denmark to a far continent to return and return with hatred and brutality and disgust towards the country that has accepted you. This has been done many times at the request of fanatical imams in the mosque, for example. The Grimhøjmosque in Aarhus. We did not have this debate a year ago when we had this debate on values. A lot has happened since. We have also had a question debate on it, where you like to knock out your arms and say: there is nothing we can do about it. I find that very, very regrettable. After all, it is about the very Danish culture, what we come from, our roots, our values, our cohesion. That is what it is all about in reality. Which way do we really want to go? I said earlier, and I will say it again. Once values are lost, it is very difficult to get them back. We can fix a lot of things. We can correct tax policy, social policy, education policy, but it is very, very difficult if we lose our values first. So we are doing the same with regard to democracy. Do the reporters dare to write what they want? Wipe the papers and print what they want? That's what they say. Yet no one really wants to print a drawing of the Muslims' prophet. And you can understand them, that's not what you understand them at all. But have we really got there? We are. I think, may I say to the Prime Minister, that when you are asked as a politician, you answer whether you think it is right or wrong. I think it was wrong; I would like to repeat that. I think that all the newspapers should have done so and brought the European magazine houses. You didn't do that. You can still understand it. But that is a regrettable development, it is a regrettable development, it cannot be otherwise. I remember, when we had the Muhammad crisis ten years ago, that there were certainly politicians who said that Jyllands-Posten should not have printed the Mohammed drawings, so at that time you would like to interfere, but it was just in reverse order. Does freedom of expression exist, or do journalists, artists and others cover their fears by talking about considerations and imposing some form of censorship on themselves? I'm really afraid that's where we are. Am I over time, sir? President? Yeah, I guess I am. I'm afraid I've exceeded time, but I can come back. Because I think this is something that so much concerns our minds and I would very much urge that we have a long debate on it. I look forward to the Prime Minister taking the floor again, because I cannot imagine that the Prime Minister will do anything else. But I will end up reading (on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party) the following proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that respect for Danish cultural, linguistic and historical values must be safeguarded and established by appreciating what is particularly characteristic of Denmark and the way of life and behaviour of the Danes. In a world and a time when the Islamic State is gaining ground with a barbaric, terrifying and stunned set of values, where there have been terrorist attacks on cartoons in Paris, where Denmark has a record in the number of holy warriors, and where utterances from the Grimhøjmoskeen at Aarhus, testing and challenging our values and laws, are particularly important to guard Denmark and Danish democratic, free-minded and gender-like values. The Danish Parliament also notes that the government and the Danish Parliament must actively manage and manage immigration to Denmark, and that these challenges must be addressed on the basis of what serves Denmark, Western values, freedoms and Danes best. • V 18).
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132738	Thank you. The proposal for adoption which has just been read out is part of the further debate. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132751	I understand that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard would like us as a society to make use of emergency law when someone attacks our values. Can Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard explain what she means by that and what she means by the use of emergency law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132807	I can do that. In other words, you can also use the word emergency law. In fact, I have subsequently tried to explain that in the press. This can be used, and if you think that there are conventions and other things that you cannot manage to fight with or against, then I think this matter is so serious that you have to ask: what are we going to do? We had a question debate about the Grimhøjmoskeen, where we all actually found that we could use our excellent constitution, but not even that we do. That debate ended with a lot of words, but nothing really happened, and I am also afraid that the debate is going to end like this and now I am not thinking of this debate in Parliament. It is a good thing that we are going into a demonstration because the terrible massacre happened, but what happens next? Will it be hidden and forgotten? There's just what I'm saying: we shouldn't have it happening in Denmark. And then we simply have to do something rather than make something small and then have a fear that the same can happen in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132908	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132910	Then I should just like to understand whether Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard believes that a democratic society is characterised by the fact that legislation can be put out of effect; that a democratic society is characterised by the fact that the legislation does not have to apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127132930	No. But I have also said that an emergency law should not be used at all to put democracy out of hand. But may I remind you of something, and that is what I actually had the impression that this debate would probably develop into, namely that you are going into some things and that you really want to concentrate on them. You don't really want to move on. But then I can continue on the same track. I can just mention some cases where the red wing has repeatedly said something if we talked about, for example, more surveillance. When it came to the fact that the police intelligence service did not think that it should be possible to expel administratively in a special court, what did the red wing say? Police state. Are you in favour of a police state in Denmark? No, I guess not. But that is how parliamentary politicians debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133025	We shall continue, and the next brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133032	Thank you. It strikes me that every time Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard or others from the top of the Danish People's Party speaks, you balance a little on a line. Now we have the pleasure of having Mogens Camre sitting in Gladsaxe City Council, and he regularly speaks about what I actually see as the usual, in relation to what the Danish People's Party thinks. I just want to ask whether Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard agrees with what Mogens Camre said here on 8 January: I do not see what Muslims have to do in Europe at all. After all, I believe that Mogens Camre here is making exactly the mistake that our Prime Minister and other leading politicians in Denmark have been very focused on taking a completely unequivocal stand against: what happens when Islamists use Islam and other religions or ideologies as hostage to their crazy actions, and they have emphasised that we are not at war with Islam. So I just want to know if it is the line of the Danish People's Party that you cannot see what Muslims have to do in Europe at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133133	Yeah, well, we can keep playing this game, disavowing what somebody has said in the country. May I just read it out a little bit, because we were actually discussing it at the group meeting, where some of our members of the House said: Well, try to hear what the Social Democrats are saying around here. I mean, there's a Social Democrat who says, "I wish all the Chinese could burn up." There is a Social Democrat in Horsens City Council who spoke in a Nazi way and then had to leave his town council work and go abroad. Well, that's how we can go on and on. And I would like to see me confronted with what I have said and what is the policy of the Danish People's Party. I think that would be more important in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133218	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133219	Now I will allow myself to decide what to ask questions about. And then let me continue with another quote from Mogens Camre from October, where he says: I had a strange feeling when I saw the TV newspaper this evening; a journalist who appears to be from the Middle East interviewes an integration minister who is Indian. Then he continues later: People from foreign cultures decide what is to happen in this country. Is that what is the position of the Danish People's Party towards a journalist and a minister and others who, in relation to descent or family, may not be ethnic Danish, but who, after all, has a work here and by most of us others are well perceived as Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133300	If sir... Jeppe Bruus followed in the media a little... and I must assume that a member of Parliament does... he will also know that this matter is settled in relation to Mogens Camre. And I have to say in relation to the journalist Mr. Jeppe Bruus mentions that I think it is one of the most sympathetic, one of the most talented journalists we have to read in the TV newspaper. I have said this many times, and I would like to repeat it, and I really hope that he will hear this or that it will at least be referred to him. I think he's really good, very good. He speaks Danish better than many native Danes. And I do not know if he is a native Dane, but at least he speaks quite excellent Danish; he does it well. And I think, sir. Jeppe Bruus should think about the fact that this matter has long since been settled. But if that is what the debate is going on, I can see that this is what we can spend our time on, including for the other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133345	The next brief remark is from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133351	I am sure that the journalist in question appreciates Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's praise of his Danish vocabulary. I understand that there are some in the Danish People's Party who think it is a problem that Føtex makes a sign in Arabic in Sønderborg. In fact, I was down in Sønderborg yesterday because there is an asylum centre where there are a number of Syrian refugees... they are people who have fled from the murders of the Islamic State. The position may have changed, but it has certainly been the view of some of the members of the Danish People's Party. At the same time, it seems to the party that it is such a perfectly good tiptop or natural to quote Mr. Søren Espersen to send the official Denmark, including the Crown Prince and the Secretary of Defense, down to a memorial service for Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah, i.e. to a regime that whips critics and beheaded citizens publicly etc. How are these things connected? I would like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Well, I understand that sir... Martin Henriksen thought it was a kneel to Islamism that there was a sign in Føtex in Arabic in Sønderborg. Is it a kneel for Islamism to go down and celebrate a dictator in Saudi Arabia or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133512	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133514	I don't think the Crown Prince has had much influence on whether he should leave or not. And now there is a world different from Enhedslisten's view of royal Denmark, the royal house, and the position of the Danish People's Party on how it is. I think the Enhedslisten is quite isolated with the position that I think it is, but if there are others who will support it, I think they should do it up here from the platform when they become rapporteurs. I think that is a sad attitude, absolutely; I think it is. And may I say in this context: we are also among those who might agree with Enhedslisten who thought we should receive the Dalai Lama. It's been hanged on, too. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen did not confront me with this, because she knows our attitude. On the other hand, I have to say that there may sometimes be a bold remark. I mean, some people go to Føtex and see something, some people go to Bilka and see something else. I don't really know which one is best or worst, honestly. That's the way it is, and sir. Søren Espersen, as political vice-president of the Danish People's Party, has put this in place. There's what I'm saying if we're going to continue along that path: Well OK, I'd like to make myself available here from Parliament's platform, but I just don't really think the debate should go on that. It is not because I am not going to answer that there is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133646	Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133648	But Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard does not make herself available. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is in the process of discipline not answering questions in the Parliamentary Chamber. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard did not reply to the questions about Mr. Mogens Camres, I think, completely insane statements. She gave such an outside answer that we could ask what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard meant. Well, sir. I guess Mogens Camre isn't just any man in the Danish People's Party. Now I ask whether it is not a bit double moral, not to say hypocritical, to claim, on the one hand, that fundamentalist Islam is condemned, and, on the other hand, to say that it is perfectly natural for Denmark to send its tips to a memorial service for King Abdullah. Isn't that what you would call hypocrisy? I would like to ask Pia Kjærsgaard. And let's finally mix Crown Prince Frederik around it and then just focus on the Secretary of Defense. I understand that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard thinks it is so good that the Danish Defence Minister goes down to commemorate King Abdullah. Isn't that hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133800	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133801	There I think Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has an easier approach to the Minister for Defence than I have. And Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen actually asked about the Crown Prince that is why I replied in the first question; perhaps that should not have been done. But isn't mixing Føtex and Saudi Arabia kind of ridiculous? I think it's very, very ridiculous... very ridiculous. I think it's all right for the Crown Prince to go to Saudi Arabia. If the Secretary of Defense wants to come, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen will have to talk to him about it. There is an easier approach; I cannot relate to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133837	Then we move on to the next brief remark, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133844	Well, damn it, I had something else I wanted to ask, but I don't think we ended this debate. Why on earth doesn't it matter what the Secretary of Defense does, but very important what a prince from the royal house does? I think that is just as problematic, and it may even be even more problematic, because he is, after all, a kind of representative of democracy, and both Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and I have a responsibility to help him along the right path when he is on the wrong path. Why on earth doesn't the Danish People's Party say, like the rest of us say, "Hey, couldn't you just stay home instead of scandalizing Denmark like that by going down there and supporting the worst Islamists?"
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133924	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133926	However, there are different ideologies, and there are different political parties which have supported different ideologies which have been disgusting. Christian Juhl knows a great deal about it. I think that Mr. Christian Juhl can start by asking questions to the Secretary of Defense. You are very welcome to that during the oral Question Time, and then we can get an answer to it. But I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133946	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127133948	Yes, but Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard would like to have a debate on value, and I try to look for where the hell we can meet and discuss it when she rejects all questions. And that's why I thought we could meet here and then stop talking about the royal house, but go to the bite if Islam is the problem. Because this is one of the worst Islamists, he's a nasty guy. Why should people like that be hailed? Well, a sign in a supermarket is naturally a little small compared to that. Føtex is not going to kill anyone just because they put up a sign; they just want to help customers in. Moreover, I would like to say that the best way to combat fundamentalism is openness and democracy in Denmark, but that requires courage, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. It requires that we stand here with our hands By Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, what exactly the people who in Sønderborg, in Kolding, in Vejen, in Århus, in Aalborg, on Bornholm are getting back like this? You will have kindness and gratitude that we will accept them. They do not get a negative attitude. It's a way of talking values, it's a way of integrating people into our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134115	Now I know from experience that it may be difficult to keep to the speaking time, but I would nevertheless call on honourable Members to try to do so, because it does, of course, just like that there are more who can speak, and that is also a good thing. However, I give the floor to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134128	Yes, but it wasn't me who started bringing Føtex into the talk of Saudi Arabia; it was Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. And at least I'll give it to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl is right that it's a little small, isn't it? Well, it's not so good, but it happened. Then I have to say that there has also just been a delegation to Communist China. I don't know if sir. Christian Juhl can identify himself a little more with Communist Kina than with Saudi Arabia, but there has also been a delegation with the Minister of Culture in the lead and a follower, also ministers, and for example the Minister of Culture had to capitulate completely in speaking to a critic, i.e. an art person who was a sharp critic of the Chinese regime. Well, that's what we experience all the time. So this situation is not isolated; it's one of the things we experience all the time in this world we live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134216	Then we move on to the next brief remark and it is from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134220	Today is the 70th anniversary of Auschwitz's closure, so we know for historical reasons what fear can bring with it for cruel things. Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has talked about the fact that in value policy we should not talk about what a Danish journalist is and what Danishism is, nor should we talk about signage in Arabic in Føtex. Nor can we talk about what current and former Danish People's Party members have said. So what I wonder, because what is value policy besides what the Prime Minister also said in his speech, namely that DF will only talk value policy when it comes to foreigners, foreigners? It is actually a very, very narrow approach to value policy, so I would really like to ask the value rapporteur if we are going to try to extend it a little. I think it's great to live in a country where two men who are in love with each other can be allowed to marry in a church. In my optics it is also a fantastic value policy that we can be proud of as Danes. So I really want to hear what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard thinks about the value policy, that is, the right of homosexuals to be married in a church.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134330	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134332	I would like to repeat what we have said throughout this debate: we absolutely accept that homosexuals live together. We accept one hundred percent of a registered partnership. I myself sat in the Folketing when it was adopted and voted for it as one of the few from the bourgeois parties, then the bourgeois parties were not right about it, but I did. I think it's fine with a church wedding, absolutely where the ritual is about the same. But a real marriage, and I must maintain that, as we have done all along, is between a man and a woman. That's the way it is. This does not mean that homosexuals are not accepted 100%, not at all. There have been differences of opinion about this. Fortunately, we are not so isolated with it in the Folketing. There have been a few of the other bourgeois parties who have meant the same thing as us. And there the members of the Folketing are freed by their groups. However, I think that when Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, like the Prime Minister, tries to make this debate something different from what is meant by the purpose with which it has been set out, and what the wording is, then I am willing to take a debate at all times on all the other things, which are also value-policy. Ok yes, that is, school policy, social policy, cultural policy, church policy, and all sorts of things I think are fine. But that is just not what the debate here today has been about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134451	Then it's Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134453	Thank you. I am just wondering, because every time we hear about value policy from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, it is only on this subject. I have never heard of other matters relating to value policy. I have never heard Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard raise a question debate on social policy, equality and a society which deals precisely with the weakest. I would just like to refer to the New Year's speech that our queen gave. One of the things she talked about was that in recent times thousands of refugees have come to Denmark, especially many have come from the appalling and prolonged civil war in Syria; throughout the country a great effort is being made to help the refugees, the task of accepting so many people from foreign skies and different cultures may seem incalculable, but an effort is still being made. One of the peculiarities of Danish culture is to be able to accept and help where we can. Is it not also worthwhile to be able to reach out where we can and where we can make a difference? What does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard think of that speech from the Queen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134556	We have praised that. By the way, I do not think we should dissect the Queen's speech at all. The Queen is simply too exalted for that. It's getting more and more. But we like the speech. Can I say this more clearly? That has also been said by us, and we are in complete agreement. We must show openness, we must show openness, as Denmark has a tradition of doing. We just have to be careful. That is what I am saying, and that is why we have raised this debate, and that is why I think the issue is important to discuss. It has nothing to do with shutting yourself in, and it has nothing to do with not wanting to receive strangers. It has nothing to do with not sending emergency aid to the world's afflicted, not at all, or not opening up to a globalised world at all, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134640	Then we move on in a series of brief remarks, and the next one is Mrs Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134645	Thank you. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said in her explanatory statement to this question that we need to change our position on some things. Who are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134658	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134658-2	I think that is most important of all the Folketing. That is why we are discussing it, and that is why I appeal to the parliamentary politicians to take this very, very seriously. I know you want to mock it and call a lot of it symbolic policy, but there is a lot that can be taken up. There is Muslim resistance to Christmas trees in a housing association; there are separate bathrooms and gender-separated swimming lessons; and we hesitate quite cowardly, I think, to close a mosque that hatches terrorists. So, I think we should change our attitude to all those things, and that is why I have asked for this debate, and that is why we have put forward this proposal for adoption. We are allowed to ask all the questions we want, I must stress that, and I can answer that in my own way, and I must stress that, but I think that the debate deserves a boost, and that is why I am rather annoyed that we are using our Question Time to ask questions of all kinds which really do not concern this matter at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134758	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134800	It just seems to me that one of the most important Danish values is precisely that we share our views, and that the parties also in the Folketing have different attitudes to our society and to the direction in which it should develop and to what, moreover, we give priority to. Does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134819	Yes, yes, but I am sorry if Mrs Camilla Hersom and the Radical Left take the view that freedom should only apply to fanatical imams and Hizb ut-Tahir. I think we should have freedom. I think we should have equality. I think we should have freedom of expression. But we must also note that it is being reduced. I can prepare Mrs Camilla Hersom for the fact that when she comes up, I will ask her about freedom of expression, because we have started to exercise a self-censorship. It is not something that characterises the Danes at all. It's not something we can handle at all. Well, we're free people, and we're used to saying what we want to say, too, completely innocent things like drawing, speaking and thinking freely.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134907	Then we have one more brief comment. At least that is the last one at this stage. It's from sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127134915	Thank you. One might wonder why the Danish People's Party is raising such an exciting debate here on value policy and then in fact gives very little indication of whether they have any values at all. It sounds almost as if the only value there is is the hatred of the Danish People's Party against strangers. I am surprised that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard does not want to answer all the questions that are really about what values the Danish People's Party stands for. I am surprised that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is so handsomely knocking out her arms and saying that it is all very well for the Minister of Defence to go down and pay tribute to King Abdullah. Why is it just fine? What is the value of being able to express itself in this way? It sounds almost as if it's pure either indifference or cynicism. At least it's not something like some values worth collecting in the Western world if it's the one you're measuring.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135021	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135025	It is a pity if you have such a written question from the press service as you are reading in the Chamber that the question has actually been asked and has also been answered, that is to say that you cannot renew and that you use words as hatred for strangers. I have to say that I must ignore it and that I do not even have the courage to reply, because I think it is simply too primitive. I'm sorry, but I think so. I have to say again that at no time have I heard the Enhedslisten object to our government and others, the royal house, leaving for others, yes, dictatorships. I haven't heard anything about that, not at all. I still think you have to have the contact you have with the Secretary of Defense. I am excited about Wednesday's Question Time. Let us see if the question is being asked. Then we'll see if the Secretary of Defense answers that. And then leave the royal house alone. I also understand that it has been found that it will be done. Now it's just the Secretary of Defense. I could see in the press that it was the royal house that was to stand for gunshots; the poor crown prince who, like the rest of us, has no opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135129	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135132	But you're not gonna answer why you think it's okay. What are some values that are the reason why you think it's quite fine?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135148	I have to remind you, sir. Bruno Jerup, who has previous experience in here from the Folketing, that the forms of speech have not been modernised to the extent that some might wish. So the thing about you doesn't work out. Then I give the floor to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135202	Thank you. It's in and out of it, we'll probably get over it. But I cannot really do anything other than reply as I have done so far, namely that we have diplomacy and that we ensure that a government takes care of it and takes the royal house into it. I have to say that I really think it is so deeply regrettable to spend time on it in such an important debate. I apologise, I say it, but I think that half the speaking time should go with whether the Crown Prince and the Secretary of Defense should go to Saudi Arabia. What does this debate really have to do with the wording of the question, namely how the very large influx of people with a different ethnic background affects Danish society? I don't think the Secretary of Defense or the Crown Prince will come home and be radicalized because they've been to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135303	That was the last word from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard this time. Thank you and move on to the next rapporteur. It is the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Inger Nøjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135325	I have really looked forward to this debate because it is quite rare that we in the Danish Parliament have so much time to debate something as important as Danish values and the basis on which we stand. That is why I can hope that the debate does not develop into something like tearing each other's noses, something that has been read in some newspaper or as various rapporteurs or politicians or members of parties have said, but that we are actually spending time discussing what values we are building on. Because in Denmark you can live as you like. You just can't change the basic principles of society. One cannot change the foundation of freedoms that previous generations have built up, but one can build one's existence on top of that foundation. In fact, I think that is important to make that clear, because unfortunately not all immigrants in Denmark have quite understood that message. In the Left, we are in favour of immigration, a sensible immigration policy that makes our societies richer. Fortunately, many immigrants contribute positively to Danish society, but there are also challenges, and they do not go away by trying to close their eyes to it. We have great value challenges in Denmark as a result of the failed immigration policy, which among other things. was led under Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and up through the 1990s and, unfortunately, as the government is repeating. We have problems with ghettos where Danish values are not rooted. We see Sharia supporters subjugating others to their medieval thoughts in certain areas of Denmark. We have young people who are so radicalised that they are ready to go to Syria to kill themselves and others. We have mosques that actively oppose democracy. As long as attitudes like these flourish and thrive in our society, Danish values and Danish freedoms and principles are put under pressure. That is why it is important for the state to keep a close eye on the extremist environments that we can see. The fight against extremism must consist both of prevention and effective law enforcement. That is why we must also ensure that PET has the necessary tools at its disposal, not least in view of the terrible events we recently saw here in Paris. However, there are also a number of points of view. In the Left we want to safeguard the Danish values, and that is why I cannot say clearly enough: we strongly reject any forced change in behaviour and any kind of right. Everyone in Denmark must be allowed to practise their religion as they wish. That means you can celebrate Christmas, as crazy as you want, eidfest, as crazy as you want, and sabbath and everything else. But consideration must be mutual, and basically it must be the case that when you come to a new country, you have to take culture into account and then you have to adapt to the standards and values of the society of which you have to be a part. But, of course, you have the right to worship the religion that you want. Immigrants must therefore also show the necessary respect for our society and the values on which it is based. In this country, you have to believe what you want; you have to think what you want; you have to express what you want; you have to draw what you want as you want. That must be respected, otherwise, in my opinion, there is nothing to be done in Denmark. I believe that it is possible to ensure proper value-added integration in Denmark. In my opinion, it just requires effort and effort that goes on two legs. On the one hand, we must say clearly from when Danish values come under pressure. On the other hand, we need to be better at ensuring that more immigrants become part of the Danish community • the Danish community starting in schools and kindergartens, who are in the workplace and in voluntary association life, in our residential areas and in all sorts of other places. This is where you get the Danish values under your skin. In conclusion, we in the Left support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135818	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are brief comments, the first is from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135827	Mrs Inger Løjberg concludes her speech by stating that the Left supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. And that proposal says that a common value is the values of gender equality. That is why I just want to hear from Mrs Inger Løjberg whether she shares the view that the Danish People's Party has just expressed, namely that a marriage cannot occur between two of the same sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135859	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135902	I think that is Mrs Trine Bramsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135905	Now, of course, it is a common proposal for the adoption of values, which is why I should just like to hear whether Mrs Inger Løbberg will elaborate on how to stand together on a proposal for adoption, which says that we share a position on gender equality values in the Left and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127135922	Now I assume that these are weddings of homosexuals to which Mrs Trine Bramsen refers, and it was the case that the Folketing was freed in that matter. I myself voted in favour, and I did so because I do not believe that it is possible to formalise love in this way. So I voted in favour at the time. However, it is the case in all matters of the kind that every member of parliament must take a position on each individual case, and that is the right and obligation to do so under the Constitution. But just as far as these issues are concerned, Mrs Trine Bramsen knows just as well as I do that there may be differences between parties, but that there may actually be differences within the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140008	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140014	Thank you. I had the pleasure of asking Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard a question earlier, to which the rapporteur himself referred. The Danish People's Party is a top-level party. They make a big deal out of saying it publicly and openly. It's a value they have to have. They also make a lot of sense that they throw people out of the party if you go against the party line. That is why I thought it was a reasonable question to ask whether Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard agreed with the statements made by Mogens Camre. She would not reply to that, and so I have to ask the Left, when you now share a community of values, whether the Left rapporteur agrees with Mogens Camre's statement that he cannot see what Muslims have to do in Europe at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140051	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140053	In this way we will move quickly on to the second, the follow-up question from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140101	That's point number two here, where you don't agree. So let me ask another question about this whole debate on immigration and so on. In the past, the rapporteur himself has been out to say that we must discriminate against immigrants who come from countries where there is essentially a Muslim background. Is that the value that should characterize the Left in a future government if it should go so wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140132	When people come to Denmark voluntarily, I also think it is right and proper to demand that they should, of course, contribute to Danish society. It is, of course, in the first place that the whole refugee debate can be separated from the immigration debate. And when it is the case that they come here voluntarily, I think it is right and proper that we make demands and that we make right and reasonable demands, for example. It is a fact that one can see whether he or she will have a reasonable opportunity to contribute to the labour market. Too many immigrants are not contributing to the labour market today. That is why it is clear that immigration must go on two legs. It must be the case that, on the one hand, we are an open society that we have always been and we have a tradition of being. We must continue to do so, but it must also be the case that people who come here are required to contribute to the Danish society and to contribute positively, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140233	I know that the rapporteur has almost saved a little time in the short answers Yes, I suppose I have approx. 3 minutes in saved time!), but I think that if I've read the code correctly, you can't really save this way in here; I'm sorry. But we are just moving on, and the next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140251	Thank you. I should now like to remind Mrs Inger Løjberg that the fundamental principles of the country to which we must adhere have not exactly been a Left Specialty. I would remind you that one is actually the only party in the history of Denmark that has armed itself to make sure that one got one's way, and that was in 1848 when we got the first constitution; then the Left and their gunmen's associations would intervene with force against the king, if one did not get one's right, namely the constitution. So you might want to be careful not to go against basic principles. 1915 is a good example of the same; it was fundamental principles that only men over 35 years of age with feet under their own table could vote at that time. So it could happen that you just had to think about it. Otherwise, I would like to ask whether Mrs Inger Løjberg agrees with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard in her assessment of self-censorship, i.e. that there is a very, very large degree of self-censorship in Denmark at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140343	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140346	In any case, there is no doubt that we are under pressure, and it is also a debate which, it might be said, has been filling a lot in the newspapers and in the television debates here recently. Jyllands-Posten has himself made it very clear that they chose not to print pictures from Charlie Hebdo after the terrorist attack, and I understand that as editor-in-chief of course you have some considerations, both with regard to your employees and the newspaper in general. But we must also say that the Jyllands-Posten himself has said that somehow they have imposed a self-censorship on themselves by not printing these drawings. I therefore agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140445	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140447	Does Mrs Inger Løjberg really believe that it is absolutely not in it with freedom, equality and brotherhood, which was also mentioned by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, that each editorial body has the right to freely communicate its material and choose what is to be on the front page and what is the most important, etc., and that, for example, one has the right to communicate one's material and choose what is to be on the front page? also has the right to choose the approach that it may be to say that yes, it may well happen that we have the right to do so, but we choose not to do so, because we do not think we always have a duty to scorn? And it could also be other things that drove it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140524	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140527	I fully agree with Mr. Christian Juhl so far that it is up to every editor-in-chief to assess for himself which items are to be printed in the newspaper. If, as a politician, I thought I had to decide what to say in the newspapers, then I would also do away with fundamental freedoms, and that would be quite wrong. But it is just the case that Jyllands-Posten himself has justified the lack of reprinting of the Charlie Hebdo satire drawings with the fact that it has been chosen for the sake of the newspaper and its employees and thus has also subjected himself to self-censorship. So it's nothing, you can say I'm making up, but something that Jørn Mikkelsen himself has justified in the paper. So I fully agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that we, as politicians, do not have to decide what to say in the newspapers, nor do we have to decide whether there should be drawings or not, but that is why it is an important debate to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140628	The next brief remark is from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140633	Neither the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Social Democrats nor the Radicals are, as far as I am aware, freed as a member of parliament when it comes to the rights of homosexuals. After all, it is because we think it is absolutely fundamental and important that homosexuals should not be discriminated against. We, as parties, have very clear views on this. It is not something in which we say that, just when it comes to homosexuals, each member of the House must equally brig together an attitude. As I said, the parties have clear views on discrimination against homosexuals. What really has always puzzled me about the fact that in the case of homosexuals the members of the Left are freed? How does discrimination against homosexuals and homosexuals differ from all other political issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140731	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140733	I would very much hope that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's speech will be made when it is said that we are not free, but that we are tied on our hands and feet. We are in a parliament, and we have the right to vote in accordance with our constitution. So I hope that will be the case even in the Enhedslisten's ranks, but that may be my counter-question to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. I would also like to say that we have always had a tradition of being freed, among other things. In matters of ecclesiastical affairs and other matters where you know that it is something that we can say there can be very different views about from person to person, and in the same way, if you look through the voting books here in the Danish Parliament, you will also be able to see members of parliament from the Left who go against the party line in all sorts of other cases. I myself remember cases where there has been a lot of discussion, for example. on group examination and other matters. So it is not a question of homosexuality or particular ecclesiastical matters or other issues, but that is quite generally the case in the Left. We are a liberal party, and one might actually wish a little that Enhedslisten also moved in a slightly more modern direction, where one actually voted according to one's belief and one was not tied on hands and feet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140856	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140858	That's just some rhetorical chatter. It is absolutely true that all members of parliament vote according to their own convictions, and that is why it is sometimes the case that some members of parliament vote differently from their parties. But in the Left it has been decided that exactly when it comes to the rights of homosexuals and discrimination against homosexuals, it is something very special; it differs from everything else; it is something very special; it is said that there is no party line here, and here you have absolutely free choice of what you think. Then you have a party line on virtually all other political issues. Mrs Inger Løjberg must agree with me on that. So I ask: what is the reason for this? Why is it that when it comes to people who are homosexuals and their rights, they say: Uh, here we are dealing with something very special, so we do not have a party line, that is something we must each find out. Why? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140956	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127140958	Well, it is obviously something so special that one has decided in the Enhedslisten that one wants to tie people on hands and feet so that they cannot vote against the party line. That's just as weird. I only hope, as I said before, that the Enhedslisten will also move into a modern world which is not, as it were, more modern than the constitution, because, according to the constitution, you have your own will when you vote in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141029	Then we move on to the next brief remark and it is from Mrs Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141036	I would really like to stay on the track that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is setting out. I also think it is interesting to hear the rapporteur of the Left speaking on fundamental rights, that everyone can live as they please and that there must be equality in relation to gender and sexuality, and that there seems to be a division in the Left, in terms of what should be given the highest weight. So what does the rapporteur think? What should one weigh most is the sexual equality of people, that is, that one can live as one wants, with the sexuality one has and with the same rights as all other people, or is it a different view that must be given the highest weight?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141121	Well, I mean, it goes without saying that I voted in favour of the right of homosexuals to be married.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141131	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141133	Well, it wasn't the whole Left Parliament group who did it. So my question is: is it a vital value for the Left Party when it is clear that when it is voted on in the Assembly, it is not the Confederal Group of the European United Left that supports the idea that homosexuals should of course have the same rights as other people in this society?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141156	Now, if you'll excuse me. In the first question I am asked which part of this is most important to me, and I answer that, and then I am blamed for not being the position of the whole Left Parliamentary Group, and asked if I could explain it. I cannot, of course, for good reasons, because we are freed in the Left, which I would hope you were in the Radical Left, that is to say that you were not tossed and tied to a firm position or a firm position on something. It's as weird as being freed. Moreover, it is not at all strange to be freed by the fact that you have the right to do so by means of the Constitution. But I can just say what my starting point is, and that is that there must be equality in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141233	Then we move on to the next brief remark and it is from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141240	Now the rapporteur is also a representative of his party, so I would really like to ask the rapporteur as a representative of the Left: is it not a little strange to be freed from a subject which is so important and which fills so much in our minds too as a tolerant and inclusive people towards homosexuals in particular? Is it not strange that we should be free here, especially when we know from the public debate that if a Danish Muslim does not relate to the same subject, there is almost a lynch mood? So isn't it a little strange that the Left as a party has such a rather shaky relationship with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141318	Well, now is the fourth time I've been asked, and it doesn't really change my answer, and fortunately for that, because I'm not the kind of person you move around with on the platform by asking four times about the same thing. I do not think there is anything strange about the fact that the Confederal Group of the Left is not freed either on the question of homosexual marriages. I can just say what my starting point is and what I voted at the time. And besides that, I don't think you're obligated to do anything. I would just like to say that I would then hope that everyone will vote in accordance with their convictions in this Chamber, because otherwise there is something wrong with Danish democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141356	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141359	Surely there must be something wrong with a liberal party which is in favour of liberalism, equality and human rights, but which does not relate to such a relevant and essential issue as the right of homosexuals to marry. And then I am surprised that the spokesperson, the representative of the Left, is not concerned that homosexuals should be allowed to be married and that the Left really has one but on that issue. I would like to stress again that if you ask the same question to Danish Muslims, if the answer is perhaps a lynch mood, there will also be in the rapporteur's own party. So is it not a little hypocritical that one does not relate to such an essential question, which is such a fundamental value in terms of our self-conception as a tolerant and inclusive people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141453	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141455	Well, I think I'll use an Anders Fogh quote: I don't think we're getting much closer. Because it's just that in all cases you're in principle free. It is true that we have actually said very openly that exactly when it comes to this, but also when it comes to ecclesiastical matters, and there may be issues relating to organ donation and other matters, you are releasing the parliamentary group. And, in fact, I would just hope that it was a fundamental value in all parliamentary groups to vote in accordance with their convictions. I am absolutely shocked that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said just now that right on the left, you are tied on your hands and feet, because you cannot have an independent position here. Surely it is a strange value to have in a parliament that prides itself on being built on a foundation of freedoms. Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141552	That was the last word from Mrs Inger Løjberg this time. There are no more brief comments. We shall give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mrs Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127141601	The question debate here today is about the government's value policy, including how to counter immigration pushing and forcing Danes to change their way of life and behavior and correct for the sake of immigrants. Let me therefore start by making it absolutely clear that we Social Democrats are proud of the Danish values that we consider to be incredibly strong. We do not therefore agree that our country is under threat in terms of value. Yes, we must safeguard the Danish values. We must be wary of those people who, with undemocratic methods and religious dark vision, are trying to fight our Danish values. We refuse to accept that people come here alone to try to take advantage of the good will of the Danes, but our democracy, our culture and our way of life are anchored in Denmark and the Danes and are therefore not easily played by the field. What we Social Democrats know about Denmark is based on democratic freedoms, but rights also include obligations. If you want to live and live in Denmark, you have to respect the rules of the game that apply here. When we talk about rules of the game, it is gratifying to note that crime has gone down massively in recent years and that the Danes are increasingly less afraid of assault and violence. However, as long as there are victims of crime, as long as there are people in our country who do not understand and fail to comply with the law, we continue the fight against the criminals, just as we will always fight a stunted view of human beings that does not recognise that in Denmark you have equal rights, whether you are a man or a woman, no matter which god you believe in who you are dating or how you live, as long as it stays within the framework of our legislation. In our old workman's book is the song "Danmark for Folk" and here is the text: "Fight against those who will storm and beat/the freedom-light senses on which our people are based./ (...) Space for all of us, space for all who will/Denmark for the people. There is a good reason why we Social Democrats sing this magnificent song over and over again. It describes very precisely what we Social Democrats are fighting for and what we have always fought for: freedom, equality and community in our democratic country. We Social Democrats are concerned about Danish cooking, even to such an extent that our Minister for Food recently hailed the cuisine with the approval of our national dinner. Some Social Democrats voted for fried pork with parsley sauce, others of us • us who come from Funen • like apple pork better. That's the part of the country where it's the national shit. The Tartelettes we had to save for Christmas lunches in December, and Christmas lunches most of us have a lot of in December, where all Danish national dishes come on the table at the same time and up to several times. Danish culture is not only strong in Denmark. Danish musicians and chefs are booming abroad as never before. As a Dane, you can only be proud when you sit at a New York café and DR's drama series...The crime scene drives on a screen when you're standing in a bar in Dubai and Medina comes out of the speakers, or when you meet a Steff-Houlberg sausage car in a remote province in China. As I made clear in my introduction, we Social Democrats are fully aware of the fact that there are dark forces that are trying in an unsavory way to combat our Danish values. We are not naive and we must never be naive of these threats, and that is also why we Social Democrats are putting a hard fight against the undemocratic forces. That is why we are so concerned about fighting both radicalised attitudes and the evil they can lead to, and that is why we are constantly ensuring that new tools are put in the box to prevent and prevent extremism and to monitor and prosecute extremists. The Denmark we know is based on strong democratic freedoms. These are values that we are proud of and which must also be the cornerstones of the future. In those words, I shall read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Socialists, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Danish values are strong and have proved vital in meeting other cultures, and that Denmark has always taken inspiration from the outside and allowed our social development to benefit from the ideas, ideas and labour of other cultures. Danish society is based on the fact that citizens meet with both duties and rights. The Constitution contains freedoms that apply to all. On the other hand, everyone living and staying in Denmark is expected to comply with the rules of the game that apply in our society. The Folketing urges the government to continue to fight the radicalised forces that are trying to fight our democratic freedoms. • V 19).
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142154	The proposal for adoption which has been read out is part of the further debate. We have some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142203	Thank you. In fact, I was very opposed to the fact that the Left tried to make comments that did not go into the matter at all, but when it has to be, I have to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen what is meant in the Social Democratic Party and what Mrs Trine Bramsen thinks about the integration rapporteur I still think she is the integration rapporteur, said that foreigners were not welcome, no matter what part of the world they came from. I thought that was a little strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142234	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142237	I don't recognize having to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142243	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142250	That should not be allowed to apply as another comment. Then it was Mrs. Mette Reissmann I can't really figure out the distribution in the Social Democratic Party who said that refugees are unwanted guests, no matter where they come from, no matter how you turn and turn it. Is that the position of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142303	Mrs. Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142306	Mrs Mette Reissmann herself has been allowed to comment several times, and Mrs Mette Reissmann has made it clear that a balance must be ensured in Danish immigration policy. That is also why we have just proposed restrictions on foreigners, because there is a limit to how many foreigners we can deal with in Denmark if we are to ensure good integration at the same time, and that is precisely the balance that the Socialist Foreign Affairs rapporteur has repeatedly pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142337	I manage it so leniently that I see the fact that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard corrected a misconception of what she had asked, and that is why Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is now being given the floor for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142349	Thank you. Then, with the explanation that Mrs Trine Bramssen tried to give, I can only say that refugees are unwanted guests, no matter where they come from. I do not really understand whether it has been withdrawn because it can happen to a parliamentarian. We have to recognise somewhere that sometimes you can make a comment, and then you withdraw it, or the party leader does it, and that is it. But it hasn't been today, and that's just why I'm asking. Then I have a new question for Mrs Trine Bramssen, because I would like to hear something about what has also been raised as a huge issue in this debate, namely homosexual marriages: what is one's attitude to the ceremonies in the mosques? Should you also be able to perform homosexual marriages among Muslims in the mosques that are in Denmark? I don't really think it's gonna happen, but how do you deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142434	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142437	I answered the first one quite clearly. Mrs Mette Reissmann herself has commented on those statements countless times, so I do not think there is any reason to go into that in greater depth. The social democratic attitude towards Danish foreign policy is very clear. There must be a good balance, and that is precisely why we have put forward restrictions on foreigners, which we hope will be adopted here in the Folketing, if the Left stops with their hesitation. In relation to the other, it is a clear value for us Socialists that we recognise homosexuals and homosexuality in all parts of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142518	Then we move on to the next brief remark and it is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142525	So, cross, it was a strange speech; a speech that was supposed to be about values and that ends up being about a minister's completely hopeless project outside national courts. There are so many good things you can do, and so many good debates you can get to grips with, and that is what you get to grips with, that is national law. Come on. I believe that some of what is currently recording the Danes is still shaped by the terrorist attack that took place in Paris and what was averted in Belgium. It is like the reality that many Danes find themselves in, and for which they are rightly concerned. After all, we were debating L 99 a week and a half ago when the Minister for Justice said that she would consider a bill which would actually mean banning Danes who did not have a valid authority authorisation to enter Syria if they had no valid errand. Then I just want to know how far we have come and whether we are going to do anything other than the otherwise excellent anti-radicalisation package, on which we have reached agreement today, which has some very good elements. There is some mentoring and some other such very nice soft things. But it must also be the case that there must be an end to those people who commit the wrongdoing that they do when they go down to Syria and participate in holy war against Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142643	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142646	Well, I am really glad that Conservatives have fully understood the Social Democrats' attitude towards radicalisation and extremism, because yes, we are putting a lot of effort into it. It is about prevention, and it is also about putting an end to those people who are going into holy war in an unacceptable way. This was also the reason why we dealt with a bill last Friday to take the passport from people, and the Minister for Justice made it clear that she did so earlier in the day, when we landed the agreement on the prevention of radicalisation, that we are examining the proposal to put an end to entry into the countries where extremism is growing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142727	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142730	Then it's interesting when we start hearing something from the government. Because that government has nothing to offer itself. Every time there has been a proposal from the bourgeois, first the proposal to take the passport. The government just had to chew on that for six months, and then they put in their own bill. Then the bourgeois made a new proposal for an entry ban. Then you chew on this again. This is a very important matter, and it is so important to counter and prevent sacred warriors who go out, come back radicalised and end up committing terrorist attacks in Denmark. It must surely be the case that there is a government which is also capable of putting forward its own legislative proposals and making its own agenda politically in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142815	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142818	Then there was something Conservatives did not quite understand about government policy when it comes to radicalisation. Because it is not true that the government has not been in the lead in this area. The government presented a very serious strategy as early as September, and that is why last week we were discussing a legislative proposal which provides very concrete tools for putting an end to the people who are going to be in holy war. We have just today landed the agreement, which has been debated throughout December and which is about preventing radicalisation. A large number of initiatives have already been launched in this area for a long time now, so I do not recognize the fact that the government is hesitating in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142902	The next short remark is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127142906	I have heard what the Socialist rapporteur is saying here today, and what is probably the essence is that we have very strong Danish values and they are so strong that they are on their own. We really do not have to do so much on this occasion. I think that would be very good if it were really the way Mrs Trine Bramsen says. However, if you look at the situation after the terrorist attack in Paris and the many terrorist attacks that have been seen in recent years, and most recently in Tripoli here today, the situation is unfortunately such that there are some forces in Denmark too which are trying to put our different values, among other things. freedom of speech, under pressure. I would like to hear Mrs Trine Bramsen say what Mrs Trine Bramsen says about the Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten saying after the terrorist attack in Paris that they do not want to print the Mohammed drawings because they are afraid of the consequences of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143012	I'm sorry, sir. Peter Skaarup forgot to hear both the beginning of my speech and the end, which was precisely about us not being naive to the threats and to the people who are maliciously trying to fight our democracy. We must never be naive of their attempts to destroy our values, and neither are we. What a newspaper chooses to bring or not is my position as a Social Democrat must be up to the newspaper itself. However, as a society, we must make ourselves available to prevent threats, and that has also happened, and we must, of course, make ourselves available to ensure that employees can go to work in safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143101	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143105	I think we are at the heart of some of what we are talking about today: what are the values we have? One of our values is freedom of speech. It's the right that Jyllands-Posten can print some drawings if that's what they want. It is not a question of whether we should say yes or no to them doing so. They have to decide for themselves, they have to judge for themselves. But if their assessment of whether they dare to do so is influenced by the fact that our values are so much under pressure under a social democratic government that they do not dare to print drawings in their newspaper because they are afraid of the consequences, then we have a problem. And I would like to ask for that, and I would like to ask what Mrs Trine Bramsen intends to say to Jyllands-Posten and others who would like to use their freedom of expression, but dare not dare. That is the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143152	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143156	Well, it is always a media's own right to decide whether they want to bring an article or a drawing or not, and whether they see that there is an occasion for it. Let me therefore once again make it clear that what is our duty as politicians is to ensure that there is security for the staff and that we make ourselves available with our intelligence service and our police to advise and guide and ensure that there is no abuse or attack.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143227	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143234	Thank you, Madam President. I would actually like to try to go back to some of the things that were said in the rapporteur's own speech from the beginning, and that was the way these values are handled. That, of course, is all in all very essential. There we have seen that much of today's debate has, for example, been about how city council politicians from the Danish People's Party have been quoted for a number of things which, of course, in some cases have not been lucky. After all, the Socialists have never been slow to make a demand that we should immediately throw people out of the party, or worse, I had almost said. But how do the Socialists deal with the problem and the challenge that it is when, for example, we are dealing with it? a Social Democratic Councillor in Horsens expresses pleasure at Hitler's actions on Facebook? I know that the Social Democratic mayor distanced himself from this. The Councillor has also withdrawn it again and regretted his writings, but how can it be that in the Social Democrats you can have elected representatives on the city council who pay tribute to Hitler, but when it is some people from the Danish People's Party who have some crooked edge to a challenge that does so, heaven and sea are in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143339	I can only speak on my own behalf. As far as I know, I have never demanded anyone from the Danish People's Party excluded from the party. In the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, it is the case that there is a complaint against party members that it is being assessed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143359	The second brief remark, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143401	Thank you. But it is pure hypocrisy that we are seeing here on the part of the rapporteur. I mean, I myself have been in the party since the beginning of 1995, which is after all 20 years, and there have been so many cases, I should say hello and where Social Democrats have reported one DF's after another. And the DFs have actually been acquitted time and time again. Of course, it has been done because you could bask in a sunshine stripe on the front of a newspaper. But that does not change the question: if you have this position of the Socialists as a party, why do you not clean up your own ranks as well? Why do the Social Democrats allow people to sit on the town council in Horsens, who pay tribute to Hitler on Facebook? In other words, it is a clear, quite simple, well-defined question that I am asking the rapporteur. Then there is no point in just saying: it is not me personally, Mrs Trine Bramssen, who has done so. No, but I am asking the party, and the rapporteur is the rapporteur for the party on this occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143503	Well, I cannot relate to complaints about members of the Danish People's Party, who should have occurred historically far back in time, and of which there are no concrete examples. If sir... Hans Kristian Skibby has complaints about Social Democratic Members, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby be welcome to come with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143527	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143532	Thank you. Mrs Trine Bramsen said that we should safeguard Danish values. We could not start by agreeing that there are no special Danish values. I think what the Prime Minister said is more like my view of things, namely that there is a struggle between values. In the life I have had, which is more than 60 years long, it has been the values of the workers' movement that have been ruling in Denmark. There has been a strong struggle between them and civil values, where it has actually been a political battle that has taken place. It is also reflected when the rapporteur talks about criminal Muslims or criminal strangers. When we talk about ISIL, it's not just about criminals. There it is about a political battle. It is a political disagreement with some fascists that we have to fight. Does the rapporteur not agree that they are more than just criminals? You know, you're usually a criminal because you enrich yourself at the expense of others, usually materially.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143633	I talked about two things in my speech. One part was that crime has fallen in Denmark in recent years, and I think we all find that gratifying. That doesn't mean the fight stops there. As long as there are victims, we must continue to fight the criminals. The second part was the radicalised people who want our society to do the evil that will fight our democracy. And in this sense, I think it is absolutely crucial that our Danish society, our Danish values, is based on a common understanding of democracy. This makes us a special Danish society in which I am proud to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143710	The second brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143712	I fully agree that we have reached a certain level of democracy. We have gone from fundamentalist asatro, where people ravaged and killed, over fundamentalist Christianity, where women were publicly burned in the square, etc., to having a rightly civilised society now. But I need something in the way of the Socialists to go to this problem, because they say: we must fight them; they are threatening us. If you are to understand your enemy, you have to reflect, that is. first understand what on earth it is that happens, what they are to some people, what they react to, then try to prevent and then fight if that is the last option. Why is it so far away from the social democrats' methods of action on these issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143759	I do not, in fact, agree that prevention is not essential. That is precisely why today we have an agreement with all parties other than the Enhedslisten, which is about combating radicalisation and extremism. It is precisely because we believe that the prevention of these vicious attitudes is absolutely essential. That is why I am also pleased that the other parties have been included in that agreement. I could hope that Enhedslisten also wanted to focus on this. However, we cannot escape the fact that, despite massive prevention, there are some people who do not comply with our legislation and choose not to be part of the rules of the game that apply in our society. And there are, of course, some other tools that must be used to combat these crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143845	The next brief remark is from Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143851	Thank you. I would actually like to try to start with something quite different. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is a Danish value that it should always be worthwhile to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143904	Danish society is based on duties, and it gives some rights, and for us Social Democrats it is absolutely crucial that you enter the labour market, that you become part of our society and not outside it. That is why I also welcome the fact that the vast majority of Danes who are in employment have a massive gain in working. It is so clear that some others are entering the labour market, where a bridge is being built into the labour market which, during that period, has less income than if they had full employment, but that is a very, very small number of Danes involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143947	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127143950	Now Mrs Trine Bramsen says that a bridge is being built into the labour market. The only problem is that that bridge has been rolled in, if you may say so, for a large group of immigrants. Because if you take a couple who are on cash benefits and, statistically speaking, there are many immigrants who are, they must have a starting salary of about DKK 35,000 in order for it to pay better to work than to be at home. This means that there are far too many immigrants who do not enter the labour market and thus do not get any knowledge of this, and I believe that the rapporteur and I are very much in agreement about this is important for custom, a normal Danish everyday life and Danish language, and which does not get any progress in integration. That is why it is a damaging policy that the government is pursuing in precisely this area, because it is not worth working for a great many immigrants in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144041	May I not remind you that the government has just focused on correcting the failed policy pursued for many years, in which not enough foreigners have entered the Danish labour market. That is precisely why we have launched an initiative to ensure that more people enter the labour market and do not end up in passive support. The tools have not so far been good enough, even when the Left was responsible for this effort. We are now putting this right, and I think that is an important effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144115	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144124	Now we are talking a lot about Western values, which I think we agree on what is at least a lot of people are democracy and so on. That is also part of the proposal for adoption made by the bourgeois side. That is very important. I would also like to talk about the Danish values, Danish culture, something which is specially Danish and for which we have a special obligation here in the Danish Parliament to fight for. Can the rapporteur not mention some of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144152	The basis for the Danish values is our democracy, it is our freedom of expression, and on top of it builds a whole palette of good Danish things, both cultural things, sporting events, literature, our whole social model. These are good Danish things that are based on the fundamental values that are about democracy, which is about freedom of expression, which is about we have a community of law where citizens have both duties and rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144231	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144233	It is true that freedom of expression, democracy and the rule of law must be in order. I think the English will say that too, and the Belgians and the Germans and the French, and a whole lot of other Western countries will say exactly the same thing. That is what we call western values and which we all know what is. But when I ask for something specific Danish, there's such a little fluffy answer... I'm sorry about the English expression... that doesn't really say anything. It's something that we understand at big sports events like Denmark and stuff like that. Is there nothing that can be said to be real Danish values and that is worth a fight, and has the Social Democratic Party not thought of that at all? Actually, I think that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144317	Now I thought it was Mr. Søren Espersen is very concerned that Denmark was just joined when there were major international sporting events. That is how I understood it. But it is also perfectly understood that Denmark has a community of values with other Western countries, and that is why we share a common understanding that democracy is the basis of our society. In my speech I mentioned examples of Danish culture, I mentioned examples of Danish gastronomy, I mentioned examples of other things that I associate with Denmark. I don't think you can put it on a formal basis. I do not think that Denmark and Danishism are about whether you want to have fried pork with parsley sauce or are more into apple pork, but it is about that we have some defined rights and that we have some things that bind us together, and that is absolutely crucial for what we call Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144410	Thank you. The next person who wanted to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144416	I would really like to come back to the question that Mr. Peter Skaarup asked the rapporteur about Jyllands-Posten. We all know about this terrible terrorist attack in Paris, and we also know that there were failed terrorist attacks in Belgium. What worries me most is not the formal rules, for they have not changed in terms of freedom of expression, but what worries me most is the creeping fear that causes people to exercise self-censorship. From the Jyllands-Posten side one has been out to indicate that one is simply afraid. I do not think it is right that this should be the case in a country where we really value freedom of expression so much. I would really like to ask whether it is not true that freedom of expression, as far as self-censorship and this creeping fear are concerned, has really come under pressure and whether it is not our job to support and support the forces that will take this freedom seriously and use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144528	I find it problematic when Jyllands-Posten goes out and announces that they are afraid, but that does not make me demand that they print special drawings or write certain articles, because that would be a misunderstanding of the freedom of expression. On the other hand, as a Social Democrat, this leads me to ensure that we have an effective PET and police force and that the Jyllands-Posten is given the protection that is required in order to ensure that they can live out their freedom of expression in their newspaper in the future. That is where my focus as a Social Democrat lies, not dictating what to bring in their newspaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144606	The second brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144609	I don't think anyone here in the Danish Parliament wants to dictate what Jyllands-Posten should bring of news or how to edit their newspaper. But the question isn't whether to print these drawings or not. What's worrying about this is that the reason they don't print these drawings is because they're scared. I find this frightening because I would say that Danish society is built on this freedom of expression, which means so much to all of us, precisely that we can say what we want, without having to look over our shoulders because there are some evil forces that want freedom of expression and those who use it to their own ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144652	This is very interesting, because otherwise I understand that the Danish People's Party's value rapporteur would very much like to dictate that Jyllands-Posten should bring these drawings again. For us Social Democrats, it is crucial that we take action against the malicious forces, that we do everything we can to prevent them from getting air under their wings, and not least that we have an effective police force and PET, which can prevent threats as has happened, particularly in relation to the Jyllands-Posten area now, but also in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144724	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else wanted to speak here. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Camilla Hersom of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127144743	Thank you. I am glad that we will again have the opportunity in this Chamber to talk about the government's value policy. The fact that we can stand here and debate peacefully is to me the epitome of one of the finest values in Danish society: that we can all put forward our arguments, that we listen to each other, that we respect the right of others to mean something other than ourselves. The most important thing in democracy is dialogue. Real dialogue requires tolerance and respect for diversity. It cannot be measured and weighed on which god one believes in how to dress or what one eats fortunately, because the strength of our society is inclusive. We do not need to be the same as long as we agree on the fundamental values, on the inviolability of freedoms. In Denmark everyone is allowed to live just as they like. Therefore, I do not recognise the premise in this question that immigration should lead to the Danes having to change their way of life. Of course, there can be examples of conflicts and contradictions when cultures meet, but that does not mean that there is a general trend. As a rule, the problems can best be solved where they exist by the people it is about. It does not require legislation from Christiansborg. It is not for the Folketing to decide how other people should live: whether women should wear scarf, whether you should wear scarf at all, whether you can or should serve pork in kindergarten, or whether you should watch foreign television channels. Moreover, the question seems to equate foreign policy with value policy, but value policy is so much more than foreign policy. For the Radical Left, the starting point is clear. We work for a Denmark where everyone is treated with dignity, respect and recognition, regardless of ethnic, religious or social background. We are working for everyone to have a place in the community, because we believe that all people have a value in themselves. That is why we, together with the Social Democrats in the government, have given homosexuals and lesbians the same rights as heterosexuals. That is why we take mental illness as seriously as somatic diseases. That's why we make demands on each other, no matter who we are. And we give a helping hand to those who need it so that more people get into education and jobs, and so fewer are marginalised on the sidelines of society. Because politics is about people. Denmark has become as prosperous a country as it is, because we are and always have been an open country, a country that benefits from being closely integrated with the outside world; a country that is open to foreign workers, refugees, entrepreneurs, investments and new ideas; and we must remain so. We must safeguard our openness and our freedoms, not least at a time of threats from extremist anti-democratic forces in several parts of the world. The terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo has led to a lively and global debate on freedom of expression. It is precisely this debate that shows that freedom of expression thrives well. It doesn't change the fact that Denmark is a potential terrorist target, just like we were before the attack on Charlie Hebdo. Of course, we must take this very seriously and fight it with the necessary means. I guess we all agree on that. From a political point of view, we are doing what we can to prevent and prevent terrorism, taking into account the freedoms that we are all talking so warmly about today. I am proud to be the rapporteur of a government party which is fighting for an open, diverse and tolerant Denmark, where we as citizens show respect for each other and where we all work to be able to join the same community. It is the value policy which is the essential one, and not an imaginary contradiction between us and the immigrants who come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145233	Thank you to the rapporteur. Three brief comments have been recorded for the time being. The first is sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145242	I think the rapporteur is saying some right things. But there are also some things that are not really related to my eyes. For what the rapporteur says is that the Radical Left will ensure that there is equality and equal treatment of all in Denmark. We can all sign that. But the next thing the rapporteur says is that we must not confuse foreign policy and value policy and that the way in which the whole question has been put up is wrong. In this context, I think it is appropriate to ask the Radical Left: does the Radical Left believe that Denmark can accept all the asylum seekers and family members that we can, on the basis of a question of equal treatment? Or will there be limits to how many asylum seekers and family members we can accept in Denmark if we are to preserve our Danish values and our Danish society as we know it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145345	I think there are limits to how many refugees and asylum seekers all the countries of the world can take. After all, we see very clearly now that the countries around Syria are coming to their knees because there are simply so many flows of refugees from Syria. That's an independent reason to try to stop the war down there. What I said was not that foreign policy is not a value policy. I said value policy is so much more. And then I said that what I do not recognise is the premise of the question we have today. We had just over a year ago a question with exactly the same wording put by the same rapporteur for the Danish People's Party to the same Prime Minister. I am so happy about whether the government would explain its value policy and how the foreigners who are in Denmark are forcing us to change our way of life. I don't think they do. I think it's a lie and a forgery to make it that way. It is true, then, that there may be people in Denmark who have different perceptions of what freedoms should apply. But that does not change the freedoms in Denmark. We must, of course, stick to the rights that we have. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145507	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145509	I think the Radical Left has a very interesting answer here. Because, on the one hand, they say that we must stick to the values and rights that we have and that we must fight for them. On the other hand, the policy says that it is all right for us to have record numbers in the number of asylum applications. There are a great many family reunifications, and the policy of foreigners has been relaxed in 31 areas since the entry into force of the Radical Left. I would like to ask the rapporteur if there is no limit to how many relaxations and how many asylum seekers the Radical Left can vouch for we can get to Denmark if we are to stand firm on the values that characterise Denmark and, of course, the values that concern foreign policy. Is there no limit at all to how many we can accept here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145607	It is not only Denmark that is experiencing a record number of asylum seekers. It is the whole world that is experiencing it, at least the countries to which you are fleeing. And the countries to which you flee are mostly the countries that actually have freedoms. And it is on the basis that we have some very massive problems really, very many places in the world. So what is being portrayed as a Danish situation and a Danish phenomenon is something that specially characterises Europe and the neighbouring states, especially Syria, Iraq, now. All these countries are experiencing very, very massive flows of refugees in the face of the disputes that are taking place. What I do not recognise is that all foreigners who come to Denmark should be a threat to Danish values, whether they come as refugees, family members or anything else. I simply do not share that paragraph, and I do not understand how the Danish People's Party can, on the one hand, say that there must be equality for everyone, that we have freedom of expression and that we must believe and think what we want, and, on the other hand, completely per year. Automatically equates strangers with something that should pose a threat to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145716	Thank you. I would just like to remind you of the speaking time. It's 1 minute first, and then it's 30 seconds. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145728	Thank you. The rapporteur says that freedoms are not under discussion, and I agree with that. Then she says that everyone has the freedom to live as they please. I think we can say that the Imams in the Grimhøjmosque have, in other words, complete freedom to live as they please. Kurt Westergaard does not have the same freedom, nor do Jyllands-Posten's journalists. Can the rapporteur see a contradiction in what might perhaps make her think in a slightly different way from the toxicities being spewed out from a place like the Grimhøjmosque, which indirectly leads to things like those we have seen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145811	I share Søren Espersen's regret that Kurt Westergaard as a named person and the employees of Jyllands-Posten need special protection because there have been specific threats and because attempts to attack have taken place. I think it is terrible that this is happening in our society too. What I'm just saying is whether it is an expression of the threat to our values. Our values are still living away. We must, of course, stick to those values if we are to deal with these kinds of threats. And then we must do everything we can to prevent attacks from taking place, to try to prevent radicalisation, and the government has taken a large number of initiatives precisely for that purpose. After all, in the best of all worlds, we prevent people who have grown up in our society or in Western societies from turning their backs on those societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145916	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127145918	But where is the reasonableness of Kurt Westergaard's townhouse in Aarhus transformed into Fort Knox? The Western values and the ideals of freedom that we believe in are in that house. Where is the reasonableness of it, when at the same time we have a mosque up on the hill at Grimhøj, which spews out toxicities, such as... Does that mean that people cannot live as they please and with the freedom that the rapporteur says everyone has? The rapporteur says that everyone has the freedom to live as they please. No, they haven't. There are some who have the full freedom and that is unfortunately a lot of evil forces and then there are others who have to live as in Fort Knox. That is the contradiction with which the rapporteur must and must address himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150004	Well, I don't think it's fair that Kurt Westergaard has to be under constant guard. I don't think that's fair. But that is why I can continue to insist that we have freedoms that apply in Denmark and that those freedoms apply to everyone. With regard to those people in the Grimhøjmosque who, in my opinion, make completely foolish remarks and also harmful remarks, they are in the eye of the police. This is the path one must take in a society like ours, that everyone has the right to say what they want, but that there can therefore be consequences of one's utterances.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150045	The next brief remark is from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150052	I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that self-censorship is being exercised in Denmark and if so, if it does not indicate that some fundamental values are being threatened.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150112	I believe that all people involved in everyday life are considering what they say in different contexts to different people, and in this sense self-censorship is constantly taking place. I think that we would have a very, very strange and unpleasant society if everyone in every context said exactly what they wanted and to everyone they met. In other words, having a respectful dialogue requires one to consider in some way how what one says is received by the person to whom one speaks. So I think it will be simplistic to set it up as if, at the moment one refrains from making a statement, it is a self-censorship that makes all Danish values slipped away. It is so true that in the wake of the assassination of Charlie Hebdo in Paris there has been a discussion about the reprints of the drawings by Jyllands-Posten in particular and also the prints of drawings by Charlie Hebdo. There you just have to say that it is also part of the freedom of expression that you decide for yourself how you want to dose those things. Surely we cannot allow ourselves to dictate that here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150225	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150227	Well, I think this is a fantastic example of the value slip that has been in the Radical Left. I have to say that I find it shameful that a party that is originally based on, and also builds on, an information tradition of religious criticism, freedom of expression and fundamental freedoms stands and makes a relativity that drives down the walls of this Chamber, of what self-censorship is and what self-censorship is not. I find it shameful that it is not taken seriously that there are people who have to impose self-censorship because they live under threats of abuse and of murder. This should be taken more seriously and one should acknowledge one's history much more than it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150320	I can promise the rapporteur that we in the Radical Left also take it seriously. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur not to patent what the Radical Left is supposed to mean, since I am speaking on behalf of the Radical Left, and the rapporteur now belongs to another party. What is the discussion here today is, of course, whether our freedoms are under pressure. Are they? I do not believe that our rights are under pressure, but what is happening is that fanatical forces are directing attacks into our societies like into other societies. We must try to prevent that. We do so with everything we have, with particular respect for those rights. What does that mean? This means, for example, that you are innocent until proven guilty. And that means that, as this question asks, you can't equate that everything that is foreign is also something that Denmark wants to hurt, and that threatens Danish rights and forces us to change our way of life, and what else stands out of foolishness in that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150421	Thank you to the rapporteur for that. A few brief comments have still been made. The next is from Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150429	The rapporteur spoke of freedom, tolerance and respectful dialogue. I think, in fact, that it was very much an expression of what values are in a Western democracy. If you look at Danish democracy that way, I think you can also say that Christian values and the Danish National Church are really important in the national common heritage. History, our entire country, the Danish culture also helps to define the values that we have basically borne. The rapporteur did not say anything at all about Danish culture, which is why I would just like to ask: how important is the Danish culture for the Radical Left and is it even important?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150519	Well, it is important, as I assume it is important to the rapporteur who asks. We live in Denmark, we live in Denmark, we speak Danish, there are special things that characterise Denmark. I just think that what is interesting is that when we talk about fundamental freedoms, in other words those which are also contained in our constitution, it is precisely rights that we share with Western democracies widely. We cannot patent freedom of expression in Denmark, that would be very strange. Or legal certainty. Or that you can live as you please, regardless of religious or sexual beliefs. It's not a Danish invention. But there are characteristics of the Danish culture, which I am incredibly fond of and taxes high and think we should try to strengthen, also politically. It is a matter of trust, it is a matter of community, and it is a matter of the fact that we actually, I think, have a great tradition in Denmark for having solved even very major problems of democratic conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150621	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150624	But it is just so extremely easy to stand and say from the platform of the Danish Parliament that Danish culture is extremely important when it is not followed up in the political debates and the discussions and decisions that are taken from here. When there are discussions about the failure to sing Christian Christmas hymns in primary schools, where are the Radicals on this issue? You keep your mouth shut. When it comes to meatballs in day-care institutions, you keep your mouth shut. When it comes to really, very many things, the Radical Left is not there to support the Danish culture, because no, you have to decide for yourself in the individual institution. That is why I would just like to remind the radical rapporteur and the Radical Left that we are, after all, shaped by our past, and if we do not know and use that past, we do not know what kind of future we need to shape.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150721	So, participation is also an important Danish value to me. And if Mrs Mai Mercado wants to reduce this debate to the fight for the meatball, frankly, I think it is somewhere else that it is being flaunted. It is not my impression that you can no longer eat meatballs in the Danish day care institutions. Nor is it my impression that there are general bans in some places on singing Christian Christmas hymns. There may be special institutions where you have decided in a majority that you do not want to sing at all. Or other things. But that's a different situation. You have to solve it locally if someone has a problem with it. And the few cases that have been mentioned in the media have, as I know, also been resolved locally. I assume that the rapporteur agrees with me that it is a Danish value that we are actually trying to solve the problems where they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150820	The next brief remark is from Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150824	I would like to ask Mrs Camilla Hersom whether she will elaborate on the proposal from the Radical Left to abolish tolerated residence. Because that would mean that, as a criminal foreigner, you could be free to stay in Denmark, and I do not think that is generally a Danish value. So I would like to know why it has been proposed radically.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150858	We have not proposed the abolition of tolerated residence. We have engaged in a discussion which is about the fact that it has to be proportional, which is something that some of the bodies in Danish society, as if some people are celebrating the freedoms, actually take up. However, we do not have a concrete proposal to abolish tolerated residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150918	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150920	In other words, Mrs Zenia Stampe has proposed abolishing tolerated residence. And I am just wondering, because basically I do not think that the Danes will feel it as a Danish value that if you, as a foreigner, have committed serious crime and for one reason or another you cannot be sent home, you just have to be able to run around freely. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127150949	No, I don't think so either, but neither did Zenia Stampe. Zenia Stampe has not suggested that, if you have committed very serious crime and cannot be returned to a country because you do not have a country to be repatriated to, or because it is at the risk of getting a life sentence or other, then just have to be able to run freely around Denmark. Zenia Stampe never suggested that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151022	The last point too short is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151027	I was actually wondering whether I should ask a question, because I think so many good questions have been asked by other rapporteurs, but as Mrs Camilla here, in such a truly radical way, more scornfully mentioned the fight for the meatball like that with a sneak I thought: No, I just cannot ignore that. I think it's too primitive: the fight for the meatball. Well, it doesn't really matter. And I can go as far as to say that it is not only a fight for the meatball; it is about prayer room, scarves, Christmas trees and halal meat, but it is also about much more. And there I would like to put Mrs Camilla here as something in relation to the Jyllands-Posten: I do not understand that you cannot just admit that this is a problem. You shouldn't dictate anything, they may even what they will bring, but it's a problem that they don't dare do it and admit it; there you have to take the hat off to Jutland-Posten. There were other newspapers who looked up to be the great champions of freedom of expression, but who did not really have anything to have it in, but Jyllands-Posten said honestly: We dare not. But that's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151134	Well, at least I think it's more than a problem. I think it is a completely terrible situation that there are threats to named institutions and people in our society that make them need special protection. What I just want to maintain is that our values are intact. At least our values are intact, regardless of whether or not these threats are there. And the way we can best deal with these threats is, among other things. by preventing it from happening; it is by insisting that everyone has a place in society; it is by listening to each other; it is by not making stereotypes about what other people are; it is by not putting up with the things that the Danish People's Party is doing in today's query debate, where it says directly whether the Prime Minister and therefore also the government parties will explain the government's policy of value, with the focus on the challenges arising from immigration and which pushes, forcing the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and correct them for the sake of immigrants. I do not recognise that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151249	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151250	That is what I knew, that is, Mrs Camilla Hersom speaks against herself. I mean, it is said that we must prevent that from happening. How can you prevent it when Jyllands-Posten says they don't dare print the drawings? How, then, can we prevent it? One can prevent this from happening with the question we put to this question: how do we maintain our way of life, that is, that a newspaper should of course be able to print what it wants? That's what's at the heart of it. I just think it has to be said, as Mrs Camilla Her who also says: yes, it is a disaster. But what are we going to do about it? You stop there. That is the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151332	It has nothing to do with immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151342	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151407	I guess most people know the joke about the 1970s pedagogy, where a student asks: What time is it? And get the answer: What do you think? It was an expression of the fact that everything is equally good or, for that matter, irrelevant. You can laugh at that a little, but the background to this debate today is serious enough, because of course everything does not matter when it comes to values. Values are the foundation on which we want to base our society. One of the cornerstones of Danish society is the community. This is among other things. through the organisation of the community as a union, improvements have been made for the general population. It is reflected in our welfare societies that the community takes care of those who cannot themselves. Equality between men and women is also a key force in our society. This means that both sides have equal opportunities for education, employment and their own income. There is still work to be done on that agenda, among other things. earmarked maternity leave for men and other things, but basically we agree that men and women should not be retained in certain patterns linked to religion or gender. We stand firm on democratic values, on equality before the law, on opportunities for everyone. We should not take that for granted, but bear in mind that times have once been different and that it is not a matter of course elsewhere in the world where extreme forces prevail and where the gap between rich and poor threatens cohesion. Unfortunately, the attack on Charlie Hebdo in France is clear proof that everyone does not think like us that there are extreme forces that will kill for their opinions. It's awful, but it's also scary, that these things can pee in our own backyard. There are no words that can distance themselves enough from such cowardly actions, no explanation that can apologize. We must use the palette of legislation against such forces, and we must fight the extreme with the democratic means we now have and at the same time ensure the free society that we want to protect. We have not yet paid the highest price in Denmark as in France, but for many years we have had a discussion about it and experiences with others. Jyllands-Posten and several individuals who have paid a very high price for using their freedom of expression. Anti-democratic tendencies are thriving, and we see that Hizb ut-Tahrir is today going out and turning to the Copenhagen anti-radical strategy and calling Western culture sad. Their opinions are an attack on the community, on security and on values such as freedom of expression and democracy when they go against equality, call for the right to vote not to be used and do not tolerate the individual's right to its sexuality. To return to the 1970s what do you think self-pedagogics, it is clear that we cannot leave it up to the extreme to think for ourselves. It must be clear to those who do not want democracy and Danish values that we set the limit here. Our dividing line is not skin colour or religion, but whether you are a democrat or an anti-democratic. Are the Danish values under pressure? It would be a lie to say that we do not have integration problems, because many new dancers are not in the labour market, some boys are lagging behind in the school system, and there are also challenges in certain environments with social control and crime and extremism. These are all challenges that we must work to solve, and in this exercise we must remember that the vast majority of new dancers integrate, work and send their children to school and have exactly the same dreams and aspirations for their young as all of us. And, above all, they want Danish democracy. I think there is a tendency to forget that, even in today's debate. Our culture and our values are strong. I also think the reaction to the attack in France, Lars Hedegaard and the threats to the Jews following the Gaza conflict show this. Then the community reacts strongly and distance itself and supports freedom of expression. It also says something about how strong our constitution is and how staunch we are when it comes to safeguarding democracy and what Denmark stands for. I am therefore not concerned that Danish values are fundamentally under pressure. I would like to conclude by saying that a Danish value is, moreover, to be spacious and tolerant, that there must be room for diversity within the democratic framework. And the Arab signs in Føtex are also an expression of this, as are the Russian and Chinese signs in Magasin. When the Danish People's Party says that it is a kneeling to Islam, I think it is going in the opposite direction. It is to show tolerance and spaciousness.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151904	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one wanted to make brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127151931	Thank you. After all, today's debate is about Danish values and the pressure they are under, according to those who have called this debate. I do not know if we fully agree on what Danish values are, but in Enhedslisten we are so concerned when Danish values come under pressure. Take, for example. something that I see as quite fundamental in Denmark, namely the community that we have fought for many generations to build. I think that what I associate with traditional Danish values is under pressure when you look at how people who are affected by unemployment are being treated today. Da Dansk Folkeparti og De Radicale e.g. It is a decisive blow to the Danish value, which security in the labour market is a blow to the principle that we help each other, and that each of us becomes stronger if we stand together, and that of course we should not leave home if we are so unlucky that we ourselves or our children or our neighbors are hit by unemployment. For many years, Denmark was among the leading when it came to peaceful international conflict resolution. Through the UN system and aid for the development of the world's poorest countries, we took the lead. After all, I think that Danish values and traditions come under pressure when Denmark takes the lead in going with the United States, illegal war in Iraq or war in Afghanistan or, for that matter, when Denmark says no to recognising Palestine. For generations, Denmark has also been known for freedom of speech and tolerance. Denmark was indeed the first country in the world to lift the ban on printing pictures of naked people in 1969, and 20 years later, in 1989, Denmark was the first country to allow gays and lesbians to enter into registered partnerships. The party that has called for this request, namely the Danish People's Party, stands for me not at all for the liberalism with which I associate Denmark. The Danish People's Party says: No, homosexuals must not be allowed to marry, just as heterosexuals must. I do not associate that attitude with the Danish liberalism. The Danish People's Party says that women who choose to have children alone must not have what is called the special family allowance, and that is something they give for the sake of the child, by saying that the child should not be discriminated against because the child grows up with a single parent. Imagine that it is so important for the Danish People's Party to insist that women should not choose to have children alone, that they are willing to discriminate against their children. I do not associate the approach to the family, the approach to the children of single women with the Danish liberalism. Now I know that this question is not just about Danish values. It has a wording which has an in-built claim that immigration is pushing or forcing the Danes to change their way of life and correct in the interests of immigrants. I fundamentally disagree with that assertion. Last week, the Danish People's Party launched an announcement that there is a problem in Føtex in Sønderborg, because on a tripod with sports shoes in addition to the Danish offer sign a small sign had also been made in Arabic that was addressed to the newly arrived Syrian asylum seekers who have not yet been able to learn Danish. I was with the Integration Committee in Sønderborg yesterday, and we were at the former barracks, and we met many of these Syrian asylum seekers who are making a lot of effort to learn Danish quickly. It is no wonder that they cannot do so right when they come, so I think it may be useful both for Føtex and for asylum seekers that, during a transitional period, it is said that there is of course just a sign in Arabic next to the Danish. I would really like to address precisely the Syrian asylum seekers, because I think it is a little hypocritical when, on the part of the Danish People's Party, it is like puffing up and dancing against fundamentalist Islam, and I fully agree, because fundamentalist Islamism stands for me as opposed to everything I stand for: it is antidemocratic, it is no rights to homos, it is discrimination against women, it is what I know you have on one side of the Danish People's Party, this very harsh announcement against this fundamentalist Islamism, and again, I agree, but at the same time it is said that the people who flee here, the people who flee from the Islamic State, will then do everything in the world in order not to help. You are even willing to send them back, women and children, into the arms of the Islamic State. I have to say, I don't think it's connected. I can see that I am not allowed to say any more, but I may have the opportunity to say something later.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There will be other options. There are some who have wanted short remarks, and the first is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152506	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask about the issue of freedom of expression, because of course it is also one of the rights that we value incredibly much in a free and open society such as the Danish one. But I have, among other things. I have already noted that, for example, one from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's own party here in the Folketing, Mr. Per Clausen has said he thinks Dan Park was a jerk. That is actually what he said after Dan Park was defeated by some autonomous people here in Copenhagen. He was an asshole. But that's what it is. But then Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen's colleague from the Enhedslisten also says that he is not an artist and that he is not a political opponent. I have noted this a little bit, because in the Enhedslisten one thinks that from such a deviate you can categorize people to be something specific, so that you do not have the right attitude to it and the political question, ergo you are not a politician; or you do not have this right artistic angle to what art should be, ergo you are not an artist? I would like to ask Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen whether Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen rejects the statements made by Mr Schmidt-Nielsen. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152617	Let me start by saying that any form of violence is unacceptable and it only gets worse if it is politically motivated. And, as Mrs Stine Brix, Group Chairman of the Enhedslisten, was also out to say in connection with that statement by Mr Stine Brix. Per Clausen, sir. Per Clausen's statement was interpreted in such a way that in some way it should be so less bad that Dan Park was subjected to violence. That is quite wrong, because of course it is totally unacceptable, regardless of who is subjected to violence. That is quite clear. And, of course, Mr. Per Clausen's attitude. Then there is the rapporteur's second question: when is anyone an artist? Yeah, I guess that's up to you. I painted a picture once, actually, of sir. Per Clausen in connection with such a collection, which was about obesity. I didn't mean to bother you, sir. Per Clausen, that I chose him as a motive, but it was about fighting obesity. And the rapporteur must himself assess whether the rapporteur thinks that I am a great artist or just a fool who has painted a picture of Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152736	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152738	I'd like to sign for the answer, even if it was something hovering and something weird, I'd say, but anyway, okay, leave it alone. But I would like to mention, fairly speaking, as a service to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, that the statements by Mr Schmidt and Mrs Schmidt have been made. Per Clausen came on Twitter, they came from his own cell phone, they came from his own fingers, which I assume is in communication with his brain. So you can't just say that you've been misunderstood and misunderstood and that it was all just a big excuse, blah, blah, blah. No, it wasn't. It was a deliberate act. A person who is attacked is then told as follows: Yes, he is a fool. If I had written it about Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, I should have been told what it was I should have thought of it some other time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152824	I think that as far as possible we should try to talk nicely about other people, regardless of what they think. I am sure the rapporteur is fully aware and fully aware of the fact that Mr. Per Clausen, of course, is against any form of violence and that Mr. Per Clausen's tweet was interpreted in a way that I didn't think was fair to Mr. Per Clausen. Maybe he didn't make a very good statement. Enhedslisten's position on this question is quite clear. I think the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party knows that too. Then I'll say again about the artist thing: as far as I know, it's not a protected title.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152911	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127152913	Thank you. What I referred to in Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's rapporteur's speech was that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen and the Enhedslisten have some doubts as to what we are really debating here and cannot quite figure out what the Danish values really are for a size. But let us now imagine that we can nevertheless agree on some of the points. Then I would like to ask Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen: does Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen and Mr Enhedslisten think that the normal Danish values we are talking about are under threat and pressure as they are today? That is one question. The second issue is the situation following the terrorist attack in Paris, where we have heard many party leaders very much agree on many things, and it has been good to see that there has been a clear disapproval. But what we may lack after the terrorist attack in Paris is that some then do something that comes action behind words. There I would like to hear Enhedslisten: Is it sustainable, since we now have a value in Denmark, which is about freedom of expression, that a prominent newspaper feels as threatened as it currently does that there are articles it does not dare print because it is threatened?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153030	There were two questions, and the first was: Are there Danish values under pressure? For me, it is a basic Danish value that you can feel safe, even if you like. risk losing your job. We know that insecurity, fear of, for example. losing one's job because one's afraid of what's gonna happen to a • whether one can be supported or whether one's forced to leave the house and home • is increasing. I see that as a problem, because I think it is a Danish value that we stand together and help each other and create a strong safety net. Inequality in Denmark is growing. I regard it as a Danish value that we are trying to work to ensure that the gap between rich and poor is not too great. Some people disagree with me about that. Some people think it's fine that the inequality is growing. But I think that's a Danish value. Then Mr. Peter Skaarup: What about the terrorist attack? Let me start by saying that I think we all think that this is completely incomprehensible. In other words, we cannot get to grips with what is happening on top of people who may want to go into an editorial and shoot, execute, other people in that way, and of course we need to discuss what we can do to prevent it and, above all, what we can do to prevent young people from being attracted to such extremist environments. That's where I'd like us to actually get sharper. Why are there young men in Jutland who are attracted to such environments? I think we need to be better at understanding that in order to combat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153202	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153205	It's just before we agree on some things here. In relation to inequality, we agree that there has been an increase in inequality while the government we have now has been sitting. Now it is the case that Enhedslisten is a support party for that government, so perhaps you could start by saying that to the government and doing something about when there are financial law negotiations and on other occasions when Enhedslisten is sitting with all the good cards on hand against the rest of us. I did not really get an answer as to what we should do in relation to, for example. Jyllands-Posten, who says: There are things we do not have the courage to do at the moment because of the pressure on our freedom of expression. What do Enhedslisten think we should do to help Jyllands-Posten, to help Kurt Westergaard and some of the others who are threatened with their freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153254	What are we gonna do? As a society, we must, of course, ensure that people who are threatened receive the protection they need. As far as I can understand, Jyllands-Posten receives the concrete protection from the police, which is deemed necessary to maintain their safety. If this is in any way under discussion, let us discuss whether we can do even better, but I understand that the assessment is that they will have the necessary protection and that the same applies to Kurt Westergaard. However, there is no doubt that if anyone is threatened, we as a society must ensure that those people are protected. We have the police for that, and we have the intelligence services for that. So what I am saying is that at the same time we must be so gifted that we ask the question: how do we prevent young people from being attracted to such extremist environments? We need to ask that question in order to combat extremism. Finally, I would like to say that it is a huge problem that inequality is growing, and I could of course ask Mr Beazley. Peter Skaarup: Why does the Danish People's Party point to a prime minister candidate who wants the inequality in Denmark to grow even more? Because that's reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153406	Thank you. I should just like to remind Members of the speaking time. This is the kind of thing with 1 minute on the first question and 1⁄2 minutes on the second one, and that also applies to the answers. Then the next brief remark will come from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153419	I would like to continue a little where Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen and Mr Schmidt are concerned. Peter Skaarup let go. Well, the Enhedslisten is a parliamentary basis for this government. Inequality has grown. That is a fact and one cannot talk away from it. That's the way it is. Then I would like to return to the Dan Park case a little bit, because I find it inexcusable that the Enhedslisten has not gone out and asked Mr. Per Clausen to simply apologize for his untimely remark. It wasn't interpreted in any wrong way at all. Why can't you admit it when there's been a flicker? That is actually what we have been asked many questions about today about statements that may come from the members of the Danish People's Party. We have then replied back, although I do not really think that is what the debate should be about. But we have had to, because it happens sometimes, and then you just have to say that it simply does not work. But Mr. Per Clausen is spared, and I think that is quite unreasonable. Dan Park was attacked. You can mean anything you want about him. You're completely free to do that. I have no opinion on that. But to go out and say that he is an asshole, in the situation he is being attacked, understood that he himself was trying to do so, is directly reprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153527	I must say to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard: Mr. Per Clausen, of course, has made it quite clear that Mr. Dan Park is totally unacceptable, just as assaulting anyone else would be totally unacceptable. It is clear that if there is politically motivated violence, it is an aggravating circumstance. It's not up for discussion at all. I think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153600	Pia Kjærsgaard, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153603	There I just have to say that it has often been in the Enhedslisten and in the Hinterland of Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten has had major problems and still has some problems in this regard. It is a little in the DNA of the Enhedslisten that it is not always possible to find out, and it is certainly a value that we have democracy in Denmark and that we will not accept that there are some people who are being attacked because of their opinions and to the extent that their political opinions are highlighted by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. But the Enhedslisten and Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen will just have to admit that there is still a problem that sometimes appears, and it came to light last time. Per Clausen's statement. He's been told it didn't work out. But it keeps popping up, and I find that extremely unpleasant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153650	What is Enhedslisten's DNA? Enhedslisten's DNA is to work to strengthen our democracy and constantly develop our democracy. It is actually quite fundamental to Enhedslisten. Let me take one example: the sale of parts of DONG. There was also the Danish People's Party in the first place. Then it became a bad press case, and then you might have changed your mind. Why does Enhedslisten think it is so problematic to sell out parts of our common energy supply? It is because democracy is restricted, democracy is restricted. Democracy is a completely fundamental value for the Enhedslisten. Our entire political project is to strengthen and develop democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153743	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153751	It was really very interesting; Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen almost said so, namely: what are we doing about these young men who are being radicalized, who are travelling out as holy warriors and who are coming home? So what's the answer? Last Friday we had a debate on L 99, where it was proposed to take the passport from some of the people, and some of what I noted was that Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, put a lot of emphasis on these soft measures, i.e. the very soft measures such as mentoring, and it all became a little long-haired, a little sweet and, in fact, perhaps also a little naive. I just think that with regard to those who are highly radicalised today, those who really hate democracy and everything that the West stands for, all that Denmark stands for, you really believe that it is mentoring and the very soft prevention measures that need to be taken, or do you actually have a sense of reality, so you say that it might well be that some criminal funds should be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127153855	In other words, if there are people who go to Syria and commit war crimes and terrorism, then of course criminal funds must be used, because it is deeply illegal, and you can be judged even very harshly and so it must be if you participate in war crimes and if you commit terrorism. It's not up for discussion at all. In fact, I would say that I perhaps think it is a bit naive to think that someone is being prevented from going to Syria by taking the passport from them. I wonder if they'll find their way, if they're so yes, what do you say? Then Mrs Mai Mercado talks about what she calls such soft or long-haired measures. Well, I guess that's one of them. some of what the East Jutland Police Department is talking about and has extremely great luck in trying to get hold of these young people before they leave. It may well be that the Conservatives think it is something long-haired; I think it is crazy wise to try to prevent young people from leaving. I would therefore like Mrs Mai Mercado to listen to the East Jutland Police Department, which is very successful in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154011	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154015	I think it is really important that the efforts we are making are made on two legs, in other words that we use both the prevention options we have, but that we also come after these fanatical holy warriors with everything we can get after them at all. Then it was just that I listened to Friday that you were not prepared for that; you are only prepared to use the soft tools as preventive tools. But what about all those who are radicalized, all those who are fanatical, all those who really want to destroy everything Denmark stands for? What exactly do you do with them? There is one possibility, after all, that apart from taking the passport away from them, because it is true that there are some people who may not be stopped and that it will be forbidden to enter Syria if you do not have an approved errand there and thus have no authority approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154106	Now the rapporteur of the Conservatives himself is bringing this up with being naive. I do not know whether the rapporteur imagines that some people who are somehow so blinded by such fundamentalist Islamism should be able to stop because we say: Uh, it may be that we take the passport away from you. Well, of course they can find a way. Mrs Mai Mercado must have misunderstood or something completely fundamental if she believes that we should not think that legal action should be taken if there is any possibility of doing so. It is deeply illegal to commit acts of terrorism, it is deeply illegal to engage in war crimes, and that is how it should be. It's not up for discussion at all. We have to do everything we can to come after these people through the judicial system if they come back and have done something like that. At the same time, we must make so much effort to try to prevent young people from ending up there, because it has terrible consequences for a lot of civilians that there are young Jutlanders going to Syria to blow themselves up and innocent Syrians and Kurds up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154217	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. Next in the series of speeches, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154233	The Danish People's Party has again called for a statement on value policy from the Prime Minister, for which I would like to thank him. After all, the Prime Minister himself has to stand up for his answer. I will then stand up for the policy of the Liberal Alliance. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that freedom, freedom and free trade are absolutely essential as a starting point for the values that must influence the Danish and, for that matter, the Western and, for that matter, the global society. What has influenced Denmark throughout the ages and made Denmark the country that we are? It's hard work. It has been an essential value in our being one of the richest countries in the world today. Now Pia Kjærsgaard and Dansk Folkeparti ask and Mr. Peter Skaarup, he also says here that there should be a special focus on the challenges of immigration, which should push and force the Danes to change their way of life and behavior and correct for the sake of immigrants. I would like to say that the starting point of the Liberal Alliance is that the vast majority of foreigners who come to Denmark make a great effort to fit into Danish society, go to work, go to school, contribute to Danish society, and we are pleased about that. We do not believe that the threat should come from immigration itself. We believe that the threats that might be come from two things: firstly, that we have not done and, in part, are still not doing enough to control what immigration is like and, secondly, that we have a concrete threat from Islamism. We must combat some of the tendencies that have been in our society to make up for the values on which Danish society is based. We must be better able to say that we must take care of ourselves and ours, that we must only help those who need it, that we may not be able to help those who do not want to be helped, but that we must of course always help those who have a real need. Unfortunately, the Social Democratic welfare state has resulted in a responsible state with the result that we get disclaimer, irresponsibility, apathy and a showdown of the values on which Denmark is based: diligence, diligence, initiative and zeal. Then there is the second threat to Islamism. There, I think, it is important that we recognise and say loud and clear that Islamism is the great danger of our time globally, which is completely ensnared by the threats of fascism, Nazism and communism. Islamism is today's freedom - hating totalitarian and expanding ideology. We see Islamism showing its ugly face in many ways and in many places, from some of the statements we have heard, including from people in Denmark, from the Grimhøjmosque and elsewhere, to terrorist attacks around, both in the western part of the world and in other parts of the world, to the problems and terrorism and the war with the Islamic State, but of course also to the regime in Saudi Arabia, for example. It is the case that totalitarian regimes and totalitarian tendencies have always been afraid of democracy and freedom. In the 1950s, the Soviet Government tried to pressure the Danish Government to ensure that the Dagbladet stopped bringing drawings where the feelings of the Soviet people were bothered when satire drawings were made about the Soviet Union. And it is not long ago, however, that we in Denmark too have seen that it was evident that special consideration was being given to the Chinese regime, in relation to whether Danish demonstrators have to wave Tibetan flags. It wasn't right either. One of the freedoms that is most important to discuss is freedom of expression. And freedom of speech is under threat. Ask Kurt Westergaard, ask Flemming Rose, ask Lars Hedegaard, ask Naser Khader, ask the employees of the JP/Politiken house. Freedom of expression is under threat. You can think of their opinions and their drawings and their statements, whatever you want, but this isn't about taste judgment or verbal aesthetics. It's about freedom of expression being a right. You have to say what you want to say. Redactors are knotting themselves these days and committing self-censorship. There are reasons such as editorial choices, editing and professionalism, but I would say that I have the greatest respect for Adam Holm, who risked himself in relation to any of this. And I have the greatest respect for Jørn Mikkelsen, Jyllands-Posten's editor-in-chief, who says that yes, they are under pressure. Freedom of speech is threatened as never before. With Jørn Mikkelsen's words, with Salman Rushdie's words, you have to say that good people give in to fear and call it respect. On the other hand, I have little respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154800	Thank you to the rapporteur. For the time being, Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154806	Thank you. Does the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party share a community of values?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154815	I think we share a community of values that is about ensuring freedom of expression, that we have to guarantee freedom of religion, that we have to safeguard all the values mentioned in the proposal for adoption, which we are behind, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and I, together with Mrs Inger Købberg and Mrs Mai Mercado, just as I hope on some points, we share values with the Socialists. It can be said that, with regard to this work and diligence, I think the Socialists have recently failed. We would like to share values with the Socialists again to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154859	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154900	Thank you. So I understand you're part of a community of values. Now that the rapporteur himself mentions the proposal for adoption that has been made, can he not explain to me about the community of values referred to here as genderable values and whether this includes, for example, the view of homosexuals' right to marriage? We have heard that the Danish People's Party is opposed. What does the Liberal Alliance say? Do you have a community of values there, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127154929	Firstly, I do not like the insinuating tone that is about the fact that it should be particularly terrible to share values with the Danish People's Party in relation to doing so, for example. The Enhedslisten, which has four, five, six different members of parliament who have represented totalitarian regimes, and perhaps that was something to be considered by the Socialists. In relation to homosexuals, it is really nice that this issue should come up again, and as a bourgeois homosexual, I would like to avoid being taken hostage by the left. For where were the Social Democrats when we asked that the lesbian couples could of course both be recognised as mothers quickly and not after 21⁄2 years? This was rejected by the then Socialist Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs Karen Hækkerup. So I just want to ask: when has sexual equality come to be about homosexuals? It may well be that the Left in this Parliament has that view, but I do not actually see it as if I belong to a third sex because I have a different sexuality than Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155034	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155037	I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he does not think it is fantastic that Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrat, in the first remark he made, which was on such a line of about one and a half, had to read it from an A4 page where it was put on by the Social Democratic news service? I mean, isn't that a little sloppy when it comes to a debate like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155057	Yeah, you could say that. I am not interfering in how other parties develop their questions, but I have noticed that this typically happens when the Socialists ask questions. Now we have been a little free of it today, but I have seen several times that opening and closing debates mean that people come in 30 minutes after I have gone to the platform and say that there has not been an answer to a particular question which I have answered both one, two and three times, but they have not been here and then they come up with the pre-produced questions. And if that is what is being asked, then I would say that, of course, it clearly destroys the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155131	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155133	I think it's a little laughable, I guess. You just have to pull on the smile tape sometimes in here, and so you do. The next thing I would like to ask the rapporteur is: now that so many questions have been raised about homosexuals, does the rapporteur not think that it would be good if the Socialists and others who have raised many of these issues went out and fought for the right of Muslims to be homosexuals? I assume that Muslims are completely like other people and can also have a sexual character that is not heterosexual. But there we just never hear that we are going to break for them, and I think that is simply a bad thing. That should have been one of the questions here today. There are homosexual Muslims and they also have their rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155218	We are clear on the rights that should be for homosexuals, no matter what religion it may be that people have, and I hope we can agree on that in broad terms here in the Folketing. What I am most concerned about is that I can hear that the Social Democrats and the Radicals have slightly regained their desire to take a stand for the rights of homosexuals, and that is why I am extremely pleased because we agree with both sides of the government that we should do something for the lesbians who live in registered relationships or marriage and have had a child and would like to have parental status both. I hope the Prime Minister will come up here in a moment and say that this is something that is being pushed on now, and that the rejection that Karen Hækkerup had of our wishes two and a half years ago when we last discussed this. At that time, we said to the government: this will be discussed again. Now the apartment is there, Prime Minister. Come up and show that this is not just something you talk about, but that it is also something you want to do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155314	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no other entries. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155327	I am really glad that we can have this debate, but I am also a little sad that we have to have it. Because it has to be said that it is not exactly running smoothly for us here in Denmark. Action against parallel societies is too poor, integration has failed, and Denmark has become a major supplier of the so-called holy warriors to Syria. And the government has no idea of its living advice, so it distributes pamphlets, and then it hopes that the bourgeois will come up with solutions that it can then go out and sell as its own. It has certainly been the working method so far. We are happy to present solutions, because we want to protect Denmark and protect Danish culture. For some, it may sound a bit bourgeois, and so is, because when you cherish something, you protect it, recognizing that there is something to protect it from the outside world. Not that we can do without our world, but because there is one but there are other cultures that we do not like as much. It is actually that simple, and it is not an expression of hatred for all strangers, it is an expression of love for Denmark. For many, it sounds like protecting Denmark and Danish culture may also be a conservative mission, and so is it. We Conservatives want to claim that this is the primary task we have here in the Danish Parliament. For us there is a difference between culture. Danish culture is above Islamic culture in our hearts, they can never be equal. That is why we will never be the party that will be in favour of a multicultural society. But something's broken in Denmark. It tells us when we can see that people among us have a loyalty that lies elsewhere in the world, a loyalty that they are willing to die for a thousand kilometers away from Denmark. Later, they return to their homeland, and I think many people think: What are they doing here? Don't we risk them practicing their mad fanaticism here in our country? Yes. And like so many others, I am immensely disappointed by the government's efforts. The government's policy is simply too weak and the government is too slow to realise the seriousness of the situation. About six months ago, the government rejected the bourgeois proposal to include the passport of those suspected of traveling to areas of conflict. Then you came to your mind, took over bourgeois politics, and made the bill yourself. It is difficult to complain about the result, but it is disappointing that it should take so long. But that's probably because the government just had to get the solutions from us bourgeois first. And for some parts of the left, the failure to act is due to the fact that you agree with the SF and Enhedslisten that you are covered on the criminal law side, as was said last Friday to L 99, that is to say the bill to take the passport and that you will probably not vote for bourgeois austerity. Instead, soft prevention measures such as: mentoring schemes. Okay, but then the government should at least drop the garbage rhetoric and at least say openly that you're not going to do any more. Then one must recognise that it is not compatible with left-wing values to punish the holy warriors, and say it as it is that one thinks it is a pity for them, they may have had a hard childhood, it has been difficult, they can be helped on better thoughts when they return home. So let us say that we think that the holy warriors have completely wrong values and that Denmark is absolutely better than the Islamic State, and that we must do what we can to safeguard our freedom, democracy, order, culture, education, and that man and woman are equally worthwhile, even if that means that we have a fight with some who actually live here in Denmark; even if that means that we go hard on them with our laws, rules and our police; even if we say that there is no room for them here. So dear government, listen carefully, because here come some more bourgeois solutions that you should be welcome to put forward as your own: Legalize those who encourage others to go to holy war makes it a criminal offence to stay in the areas controlled by IS, without permission from the Danish authorities, and grant the holy warriors an entry ban if they are not Danish citizens, and if they are, try to remove citizenship from them. Because it's still not in this country that their loyalty lies. Indeed, one should almost think that they would not mind losing their citizenship if it were not because we in Denmark had a generous welfare society • a welfare state that is so value-neutral, so bureaucratic and socialist that everyone has the right to cash benefits on an equal footing with each other, including the holy warriors who had to return home. Perhaps that was exactly what the government had to do, because if the government does not succeed in taking the passport from the holy warriors before they leave, then they will come back, and what do they do? Waiting for fanatical Islamists to commit a terrorist attack in Denmark? Sitting and waiting for what medium will be next, the Danish Charlie Hebdo? In the Conservative People's Party, we think that Denmark should be on the right track. We think that Denmark's safety and culture should be given priority, and that is why we have chosen that this inquiry debate should be used on something that means a great deal to a great many Danes around, namely the holy warriors who go to war and who fight for everything they can against Danish democratic values.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155859	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155903	I am just a little surprised that Conservatives' rapporteur is saying that the government is only concerned with soft measures. Can the rapporteur confirm that last Friday we discussed a tough proposal on the criminal code, namely the possibility of including people's passports on their way to Syria, and that the Minister of Justice indicated at the same time that we would like to examine the possibility of entry bans? And can the rapporteur confirm that there is already a severe punishment for people who go to holy war and engage in holy war, and that the challenge is not the penalty framework, but to lift the burden of proof?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127155948	What is absolutely clear is that it was more than six months ago that it was actually this summer that it was proposed for the first time that the passport should be removed from them. Then what happened? Nothing happened. The government didn't do anything. The government itself was not foresight, and the government did not come up with a catalogue of possible actions that could be taken in order to actually fight hard against the people who go to holy war. Then the bill was dealt with here on Friday, when I myself was rapporteur on it. It's so good that the government has come to its senses. Now we are waiting for the government to come to its senses for the second time by making sure that they are stopped, so that it becomes illegal to stay in the areas that, for example, the IS controls in Syria. But it would be nice to have a government that took the lead itself. It would be nice to have a government which actually set the agenda itself instead of going crazy after the bourgeois and making political proposals half-and-a-half years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160048	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160051	Let's just stick to the facts. Can the rapporteur confirm that as early as September the government presented a catalogue of proposals to prevent young people from going to holy war and that on 1 December the bourgeois people launched their wishes on how to prevent young people from going to holy war?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160111	But now exactly the debate that went so terribly wrong last Friday, when the rapporteurs competed and began to argue about what process there has been and who had done what over in which ministries. What I am taking from here is that it was a long time ago that it was bourgeois who put forward the proposal to ensure that the passport was taken. And the government did nothing; the government said nothing; the government would distribute a pamphlet. That's exactly what the government wanted. Now there is a new proposal which the Ministry of Justice has just to chew on, and that is why I say that it would be nice in the situation we are in, where we know that holy warriors are being hatched, where Denmark has been a major supplier, where Denmark has been the country of the European Union that has sent most of the time with a government that went ahead. I don't think I'm the only one who thinks that. I think there are a lot of people around Denmark who would think it was nice to have a government that took a leading position on this, but when you can't, you have to copy the good proposals that the bourgeois make. It's okay, too. We'll vote for them. These are our own proposals, but it would only suit the government itself to take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160215	Thank you. Now a couple of other comments were made. The first is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160226	I am asking the same question that I put to Mrs Inger Løjberg, namely why the Conservatives have chosen to release members of the parliamentary group when it comes to discrimination against homosexuals and when it comes to the rights of homosexuals. It is, of course, the case that all members of parliament are obliged to vote according to their own convictions under the Constitution, but the parties choose to say on virtually every question: we have a party line, this is our position. By way of exception, the Conservatives have chosen to say that just when it comes to homosexuals, the party does not have a position, so Members of Parliament can just find out for themselves what they think and what they will vote. What is the reason for this? I am asking because I am surprised because the Enhedslisten is not difficult to reach a very clear position in relation to discrimination against homosexuals and homosexuals' rights. I do not see how this issue should differ from all other political issues. So why has it been chosen, contrary to virtually all other political issues, to say that when it comes to homosexuals and their rights, the party does not have a position?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160342	After all, it was a very interesting debate, in which it was stated that the Enhedslisten should at least follow party discipline and, of course, not have the constitutional right, as all of us have, namely to decide for ourselves how to vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. Apparently, Enhedslisten doesn't have that right. I voted in favour of homosexuals getting married in the church, and I did so because it was important. At least this is something I have been very concerned about, also for many years, something I had strongly advocated. But it is the case that in the Conservative People's Party there is also something bigger than the immediate. After all, this was an ethical issue for a great many of our members of parliament. I think that should be respected, and I think it is strange that the Enhedslisten should refer to what the Conservative People's Party might want to vote in a given legislative proposal. You may disagree, but judging the decision seems strange to me. I think, instead, that we should pay tribute to the right to make that choice ourselves with that button, and I think, moreover, that when we are free to do so, in the recognition that this is an ethical issue, it is something that for many people is connected to the people's church, then we must respect it. We did that in the Conservative People's Party. To stand here and discuss an internal matter, I actually just seem out of place, especially when it is that the debate is about values in our society. There are so many other good things that could be tackled in such a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160514	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160516	However, it is a fundamental value to me that we do not discriminate against people on the basis of their sexuality, and that is why I could never dream of saying that homosexuality and discrimination against homosexuals are not a political issue. I simply do not understand the dividing line set up by Mrs Mai Mercado. In other words, the Conservatives say that when it comes to homosexuality, it is a very special ethical issue on which the party cannot have an opinion. I guess it's also ethical how we distribute the prosperity of our society. I guess it's also ethical how we think the planet should be treated. I guess it's also ethical what rights we think children should have or older people should have. I guess you can't separate politics from ethics like that. What is it that makes homosexuality different from all other political issues and that it says that the Conservative People's Party cannot have a common position here? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160619	That is not the only ethical question in which a group is to be freed. Organ donation has been mentioned. I could mention euthanasia. I am also quite convinced that we would be free to do so, because it is an issue that is greater than the very concrete things we have to deal with. For me, this is not about discrimination, and for a great many Conservatives, for a great many of those who voted against, it was about the church. It was about the ecclesiastical ritual. So I think that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen is belittling and abandoning the debate when it is that it is only going to be about discrimination and does not take into account the fact that there was, in fact, a minority who cared very much not to change the rituals of the church and who wanted to continue them. I think that must be respected. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen then chooses not to respect the fact that there are others who may have the basic point of view, and that is fine, that is fine, but I do. In fact, I choose to respect those of my group who have a different view, and I still seem to be gone, and I have to make it clear that it is a strange debate when we are discussing something as big as Charlie Hebdo, as the terrorist attack in Paris, what was averted in Belgium, and then we end up with a debate on the rights of homosexuals in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160745	Thank you. Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160750	In his speech, the rapporteur emphasized the Danish values, which are also emphasised in the proposal for adoption that has been made. So I would like to ask the rapporteur if she would be kind enough to tell us what are special Danish values, i.e. values that only characterise Denmark and not the rest of Europe or anything else. What are the special Danish values, the particular cultural way of life that we must defend when it comes to Mrs Mai Mercado?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127160824	In fact, there was someone who could pronounce my foreign surname so incredibly fine... Mercado is Spanish... yes. What is important to me about Danish values is that we have the opportunity to practise democracy, that is to say we use our history, that we use our national minds and that we not only care about traditions, but believe that traditions are important and that traditions exist to be passed on. When there comes a proposal to just include a holiday, so that you can just work, for whom, by the way, is celebrating Christ's Ascension Day, we say: No, it does not go with the Conservative People's Party, because Danishism is not just the values that Mrs Camilla Hersom mentioned: freedom of speech, all freedoms, tolerance, respect, openness. For a conservative it is also the recognition of one's history that one learns from one's history. I also said in my question to Mrs Camilla Hersom that if you do not know what you come from, if you do not know what has shaped you, you do not know where you are going. What makes it so infinitely easier to point in a direction is that you take the Danish values with you. It is not the case that I have a patent to say: what is Danishism? No. But there are some unifying factors that we can agree on are there. Now Mrs Camilla Hersom the meatball, the Prime Minister also mentioned the meatball, but apparently it was not quite as flabby as when I mentioned it in my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161000	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161003	I am sincerely trying to bring it a little closer, because what this discussion basically ends up with is fundamental freedoms, and one of the fundamental freedoms is the freedom to be different. So I have to ask, when national is said, what is meant by it. What kind of national attitude do we have in Denmark that people who come here should not be able to take part in?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161034	But then I think the rapporteur has misunderstood me a great deal, if you are not allowed to take part in it, because of course you must. What I said in my speech, and as I actually said in my questions, is that for me, as a Conservative, there is just more than freedom of speech, tolerance, openness, which is also important for Denmark. For me, it can never be the case that you can equate different cultures with the Danish culture, so that we just broadly accept a multicultural society, signs in Danish on street corners, in schools etc. etc. That would be weird. We talked earlier about a whole town consisting of other nationalities, but would it then have to start to sign in Arabic, for example?? No, I don't think so. So there are some values that bind us together and that are higher and higher than the meatball, which was so flaunted just now, but as somewhere is a very good example of taking care of your country, and we all have an obligation to do so, not only you and I in this Chamber, i.e. the rapporteur and I, but all Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161146	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. And the next one is the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161204	First of all, thank you for the debate. There's nothing else to say but that we've been around a lot. We have debated what each of us understands by Danishness, and one can only love the Folketing such a day as today, when we have such a powerful debate. And I really would like to thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and other authors for raising the question today, because it has certainly been interesting. I also think, when you boil it all down, that today's debate bears witness to the fact that a large majority of people are all in favour of Danish values. It may well be that we do not entirely agree on what exactly constitutes the Danish values, but I think I am experiencing a large common amount. I think the people feel the same. I believe that a large majority of the population supports our values, our culture and, in general, the Danish society and the way we have organised ourselves in Denmark. I think the vast majority of Danes think that Denmark is the world's best country, and that actually says quite a lot. We also look after our community in Denmark, and so do we, and we are also prepared to fight for our very special community. So in this way it is all actually quite encouraging, and this confirms my belief that our culture and our society and the way we have constructed are strong and vital. Denmark is a safe community with well-being for the many and not just for the few, and I think many support that. At the same time as we are a strong community and behave in solidarity and good relations with each other, we also have a very great freedom to live the life we each want to live. We can express ourselves and say what we think we can marry who we want, and we can use the opportunities that exist in society, precisely because we also have one of the most equal societies in the world. Equality also gives freedom. This is how we have chosen to arrange ourselves in Denmark with both security and freedom, and in many ways it is very unique, and it is certainly worth fighting for. We have high ceilings in Denmark, and that is how it should continue to be. This also means that we must be prepared to discuss the challenges that may arise and, of course, some very concrete challenges can arise when people come from other countries and cultures. We're gonna talk about that. Denmark is a strong community and many have said so too a community where there is room for diversity, but we must never, in misunderstood tolerance, refrain from talking about what may feel difficult. Therefore, I would like to say quite clearly today that we should not give up our Danish starting point or our Danish values, even when it comes to something that may seem like the minor problems of everyday life; a Christmas tree in the yard; meatballs in kindergarten; because this is something much bigger than the specific examples. It is about not wanting a situation where we as Danes should feel alien in our own country. I don't think the Danes do either. I think the Danes feel very comfortable in our own country, and this is also due to the fact that we all basically have strong faith in ourselves as Danes, citizens of Denmark, and in our values. That is also why it is so important to take care of the Denmark we know. At least I'm gonna fight for that. The outside world also affects Denmark; we feel that very clearly. Here and now there is very strong unrest in the world. There are many refugees coming to Denmark, and there are many of us who think: can we keep up with this development? This is a real problem and, of course, it concerns the government. That is why it is basically a little sad if real problems, real problems are lost in a discussion about what to or should not sign up to in Føtex. I think that is a little less discussion and really purely symbolic policy, and I would rather talk about the right problems and take the challenges seriously not only in words but also in concrete action. And the government does. We are tightening up the rules for asylum in Denmark. This is the first time this has happened in 12 years. We will make demands on the people who come here. We will not repeat the mistakes of the past, we will do something extra. The starting point for this is that refugees should not be made clients in Denmark. As I see it, it is value policy in practice, because it is a strong Danish value that we should all contribute something to the society we are part of. We take the problems seriously, which is why I am very pleased that a very broad majority has today agreed to step up efforts to combat radicalisation and extremism, so that we can be better at preventing young people from ending up in extremist networks and better at getting those who are We are acting. Another major discussion we have had today is, of course, about freedom of expression, because the tragic events that we have seen in France earlier this month have made a deep impression on all of us and are very cash proof that there are forces that want to attack our freedom of expression and bring our democracy to an end. I do not think there are two views on this in the Folketing; we must take that attack very, very seriously. That is why it is also important that we jointly mark that we stand guard over the freedom of expression.You can't take it away from us and we call about freedom of expression in Denmark. That is also what we have done in response to the attack in Paris: all the parties of the Folketing have just called for freedom of expression and said that they should not be allowed to knock down Danish freedom of expression, we are fighting for freedom of expression. It is not an individual struggle that must be waged, it is something that we as a society that Parliament must do together, and I really think it is one of the most positive things that can be said about the debate of the last month: there has been no disagreement on this issue; we are a united Parliament, all parties which have chosen very clearly to call for freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161904	Thank you. There are some comments or questions. The first is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127161912	The Prime Minister himself mentions that this debate must be bigger than just the discussion about a sign in Føtex, and I very much agree with that. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it is not true that to return to society, as was said just now, it requires, on the one hand, that you get to work, that you become self-supporting, that you take responsibility for your family and, on the other, that you get into education. We know that there are problems here. Unfortunately, we know that immigrants represent an ever-increasing proportion of those who are not in education and who are not in the labour market. There I just find it thought-provoking that the government, with the financial agreement that has just been concluded, has now made it more attractive to be on passive public support than to be at the SU, also for the resourceful, that is to say for the young people who can just go on an education or work tomorrow. At the same time, the mutual dependent has been removed, the ceiling on cash benefits has been removed, the start-up aid has been removed, everything that we could actually see actually had an impact on our getting more people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162030	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162032	I have to say that I very much disagree with what the questioner says. We have, for example. A cash assistance reform was carried out, and the other day there were figures coming, I think it was from the Workers' Employment Council, I cannot myself verify those who just show that it is working. There are more people, especially young people, who have entered the labour market or are in the process of training, and this then underlines that we are on the right track, also in terms of getting young people on cash aid into the labour market and in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162104	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162106	Now we were talking about the proportion of immigrants, because this is a debate which has, like it has been locked in a path of integration. At least that is what the question debate is about, and it cannot be said that it has been good enough. At least I don't think it's been good enough. Surely it is not good enough for so many people who are on passive public support who are outside the labour market and who are not in education. As I heard, the Prime Minister himself said, when she was out visiting Bilka, where the Prime Minister once worked. I have worked in Føtex myself, I can say, but it wasn't in Sønderborg, it was in Odense. However, it is important to make much more determined efforts to get that group into the labour market and education too, and that is where I just think that the measures that have been taken through the latest Finance Act with Enhedslisten have gone in exactly the opposite direction. And we haven't got those figures yet, because that law is only being implemented and the new rules are only going to apply now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162208	I have to say that I do not recognize as much of what Mrs Mai Mercado says. It is true that Bilka and Føtex are probably also nice places to work, and when I was out there in Bilka in Ishøj, it was to talk to some of the people who have got a place in the labour market because there is a company that takes care of that matter. That is what is so important: we in the labour market welcome people, Danes with Muslim background, and give them a place in the labour market. It was very uplifting to be out there talking to those people who were simply so happy that, despite perhaps a little reading difficulties or something else, they had got a place on the Danish labour market. I don't recognize the picture that we shouldn't do anything for the group we're talking about here. We have carried out a reform of primary schools, we have carried out a reform of vocational training, we have now stated that we will propose concrete useful jobs for the group that hangs most, among other things. the refugees who are coming here now. So this is a group that we are extremely concerned with. It is not a joke that I am saying that the new refugees must not end up as clients, because it is so important that they come out and become part of the Danish labour market, because the way to integration is through being part of the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162330	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162332	I would just like to hear the Prime Minister, who is also the minister of the press, about the following: when there are some who fail to write what they want, or print what they want, or draw what they want, because they are afraid of the consequences, for example. Or fear what could happen, what thoughts does the Prime Minister think about that kind of self-censorship?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162359	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162400	I think it is very relevant to discuss whether there is a risk of self-censorship, because what we know at least is that some extremist forces want to attack our freedom of expression and hence the freedom of the press. There are some who want to attack those freedoms, and we just have to recognise that this is unfortunately the way it is. The next question is: is there a risk of self-censorship? And yes, of course there is a risk of self-censorship in that situation. The disgusting events we saw in France affect us all. But at the same time, it is also important to have said that and that is why I said it before • that the defence of freedom of expression should not be based on a single person or a single medium. This is a joint task. It is important that we all call for freedom of expression, and I think that if we look at the debate that has been going on since the terrible terrorist attacks in Paris, we can see that there has been one message that has gone through very clearly throughout the Folketing, in almost the entire Danish population, and that is that we stand guard over freedom of expression. Then we have the Jyllands-Posten, which is a very special example, and I really think it is a little too bad if it is to be brought forward. One has to respect the fact that Jyllands-Posten is a very special example. But the reaction that has been since Paris has, of course, been clear support for freedom of expression, for freedom of the press and, hence, for our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162534	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162536	I would like to express my respect for the fact that the Prime Minister is so clearly taking the problems of self-censorship seriously. I'd like to sign for that, I'm very happy about that. I can then be concerned that there is agreement between the two government parties on that question, because I do not think that was the answer I received when I put a similar question to the radical rapporteur. But thank you to the Prime Minister, whom I hope will represent the entire government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162606	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162607	I do not think there is any disagreement whatsoever among the parties of the government. Everyone can see that there is a risk of self-censorship, but what you are constantly required to answer is: Are you so messed up in Denmark? Have you lost your freedom of speech? As I have seen over the last few weeks in Denmark, there is a strong community to defend freedom of expression, to defend freedom of the press, and there have simply not been two positions in this Parliament. It is, of course, gratifying that we all stand guard over freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162641	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162644	I think it has been good to hear the Prime Minister say here in the end that we must stand guard over freedom of expression. It has been a bit of a slinging course, a zigzag course, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left have been going on here during the debate. It started this morning with Mrs Trine Bramsen, who is the legal rapporteur for the Socialists, saying that freedom of expression and Danish values are not under pressure, and so have we been able to hear in today's debate. When we then ask whether it is not true that after the terrorist attack in Paris there is a Danish newspaper and apparently more people who do not use their freedom of expression to print the Mohammed drawings, because they are threatened with their work as a newspaper, then you just have to say that that is the case. And I think the Prime Minister should acknowledge this, also a little louder than saying: Well Jyllands-Posten is in a special situation. For Jyllands-Posten is not in any other situation than other Danish media at this point. That's not my impression. My impression is that there is no reason to be afraid of certain threats coming from the outside world. I would like to hear the Prime Minister tell the Danish Parliament: what does the government do to show that it does not accept that situation? What is the government doing to make use of one's freedom of expression, even if it hurts a little in some people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162812	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162814	I can hear no difference in what has been said, neither among the governing parties nor among the rapporteurs. I just can't hear any difference. What has been said is very clear: there are some who want to threaten freedom of expression, not just in Denmark, but throughout Europe. The attacks that took place in Paris clearly indicate that some want to threaten our freedom of expression. Is that a risk of self-censorship? Yeah, that's a risk of self-censorship. However, we are also saying clearly that we will not be intimidated, that we will not give in and that those who try to attack our values and restrict our freedom will not succeed. Then I have heard that there are a lot of people who want to conduct politics on what exactly the Jyllands-Posten does or doesn't. I have to say that I do not think that is fair. Jyllands-Posten is in a very special situation. They have acknowledged this themselves, and you have to have some respect for that. What I am wondering is that in the days following the tragic event in Paris, for example, we wanted to see an increase in the number of people living in Europe. The Danish People's Party at Pia Kjærsgaard, that all newspapers should print exactly the same, and I find it very strange that politicians think that they should have firm opinions about what newspapers should print or not print. For the whole point of a large part of this discussion is precisely that you sit out on the reactions yourself and assess what you think is relevant to print.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162945	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127162948	When I say that there is a zigzag course on the part of the government, it is because you can read it at the Ritzau Bureau here today from the rapporteur's speech by the Socialists that Denmark is not in danger of value. That is what the Socialists are saying there. I hear something else from the PM. In fact, I hear from the Prime Minister that it is clear that there is self-censorship, that there is a risk of self-censorship when that is the case, yes, it may be that the Prime Minister is shaking his head, but it is the situation that newspapers say openly that there are things they do not dare to do because they are threatened. What we must stand together in the Folketing is certainly to distance ourselves from it, but we must also stand together to ensure that the newspapers can do what they are set up in the world for and use their freedom of expression. Whether they do so is their choice, also how they do it, how they manage it. But they must have the opportunity to act, print the things they want, the opinions, the drawings, they want what they want. They must be allowed to do so. And there it can't be, I think, and I would like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion that they say that Jyllands-Posten is in a special situation, so we don't need to talk about them at all. We're gonna talk about that. After all, as the Prime Minister said earlier, it is the small things that together form our values that safeguard our values.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127163110	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127163111	Nor do I believe that the Danish values are under threat. I believe that we have so strong values and so much desire to fight for those values that we win that battle. And I find it hard to understand the bourgeois urge to say that we are so threatened and oh so pressed. I don't understand. It has been a long time since I have heard such a clear and unambiguous defence of freedom of expression as I have heard from the attacks in Paris. It has been a long time since I have seen such a broad consensus that we should not stand alone with freedom of expression or freedom of the press, as I have seen from the attacks in Paris. There has been a very clear attitude to it, not only in the Danish Parliament, but also in the Danish people. How does one come to the conclusion that our values, our fundamental values, believe in democracy, belief in freedom, belief in our freedom of expression, should be threatened? I don't understand. Are they under pressure because somebody is going to attack them? Yeah, they are, but that doesn't change the fact that we're holding on. We believe in what we stand for and we fight for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127163220	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are no more questions. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party as rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127163242	Thank you for the debate. At least we have had some changes, and it has taken many hours. What you might be afraid of maybe is that when we leave, everything stays the way it used to be. It hasn't been my wish. I could not help while I was preparing for the debate, looking back at last year's debate, and I found my question speech where I said in the last paragraph why, like this year, I had put the question to the Prime Minister: 'Because I think the Prime Minister should be at the forefront of the fight to preserve the Denmark that we know, with the new things that are also happening in Denmark, which we know. In fact, I did not think at all when I made the comments that we had in our work programme many years ago, but it was all brought to life when the Prime Minister took it to heart in the New Year's speech and in subsequent promotional campaigns. You just have to admit that. Then I just hope that you learn from it too and that you really mean it seriously. We have discussed freedom of expression very much and I think it is good and sensible because it is so important to all of us. We have also discussed self-censorship a great deal, and I have to say that, unfortunately, there is self-censorship. We all know. Now we have discussed Jyllands-Posten a lot, but there are also other things: there are companies that abolish Christmas lunch because there are employees with a different cultural background. Recently, the supermarket chain Aldi took a soap product of the shelves because some Muslims found that there was something that looked like a mosque on the outside of the product that was adorned by Oriental motifs such as domes and minarets that violated their religion. It went off the shelves. If we go a little further, outside Denmark, to Great Britain, we see that one of the largest publishers, Oxford University Press, has decided to omit any mention or depiction of pigs or pork in their school books because it may violate Muslims. We just have to see that there is self-censorship. We know that there are stand-up comedians who are interrupted in their performances and who do not want to act because they are threatened because they make fun of the Prophet. We know there are plays being taken off because there are Muslims coming and saying that there is a violation of Muslims in those plays. Unfortunately, there's self-censorship, and it's almost unbearable, because you can almost feel the ropes around you. I must also say that we have received some figures. That is something that politicians can always relate to, and that is a very good thing in relation to the war in Syria. It is still gone a quite, quite awful thing that has sent many on the run. We are advocating in the Danish People's Party that much more attention should be paid to what can be done in the neighbourhoods, but in the past many months asylum seekers have thus presented great challenges for the municipalities and reception centres in Denmark. The number of people who came to Denmark last year has now been calculated from the Foreigners' Agency, and this figure is of little 15,000. If they receive asylum, and many of them do, this means that family reunifications will occur, while we have been told that people from Eritrea can immediately be granted asylum. It is therefore a mouthful that not only places the economy at a disadvantage but also places our culture, our freedoms, at a serious disadvantage, because we are constantly being oppressed. It is also being changed in the day institutions. There are day care institutions that do not want to go to Christmas service with the children. There are day care institutions that change their meals because there are many Muslim children, while the Danish children do not have the same rights. We are all aware of these problems because we have been discussing them for so long. Then you can say that it is the meatball again that gets a comment, but that is the way it is, and that is what is so sad in reality, that we continue to do so all the time. Then you might ask whether the government takes the threat to freedom of expression seriously. It sounds that way when the Prime Minister is on the floor a little in conflict with the rapporteur. But does the government take our values seriously? No, I'm a little afraid you're just pretending. The attack in Paris hasn't changed a comma. The government speaks of security and intelligent border control, but continues to refuse to introduce physical border controls which would in practice prevent exiles from returning and protecting us from cross-border terrorism. It has just been made up here today that the number of foreign warriors in Syria and Iraq is historically high and that Denmark is now the country in Western Europe with second most Syrians measured in terms of population. That's scary! The Danish Centre for International Studies states this in its latest inventory. Between 100 and 150 Syrian warriors have travelled from Denmark to the Middle East to participate in armed conflicts. What we are discussing here is deeply serious. From the meatball in the day-care institution to the Syrian warriors, there is some connection somewhere: self-censorship, freedom of speech, ideals of freedom. And I would just like to ask that, even though this debate is now finished, I do not have any more speaking time in the day to day as a politician is extremely aware of it, and that you do not just walk away and think: Well, that was the debate, then we wait just a year, until the Danish People's Party raises the debate again. Because that is what we are doing, regardless of whether there may be a government other than the one that is currently in office. We believe that this is an important debate, regardless of the party colour of the government. So you can count on us to keep it up. In fact, I think we all deserve this, and we are obliged to do so as politicians to the Danes who have pointed to us as members of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127163837	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 29 January 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127163858	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127163915	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that I am receiving oral reports that the Minister for Food is prepared to amend substantially in the present draft law and withdraw the proposed authorisation for the Minister. I think that is interesting, and I would also like to look forward to the Minister not only saying this from the platform but also following it up in writing in connection with the probably forthcoming legislative procedure. I would, of course, welcome this and ask the Minister to convene a meeting of the parties to the agreement on the matter so that we can get it through and cleared out and get the matter back on track, as it were. I have not seen anything in print yet, so I will wait for the Minister to speak later in the debate on this matter. But if we look at the written proposal now, that is to say the draft law before us, then we are very much surprised that the government, without prior understanding with the parties to the agreement, had proposed authorisation to extend the demand for post-crop crops in the law which was to implement the simplification and reduction of the post-crop requirement in the Food Growth Agreement, which we entered into in April 2014. The first increase proposed by the government by 80 000 hectares of catch crops can be seen from the present draft law, but at the same time it is clear from the present draft law that the Minister should then have the power to increase the area after crop without any actual land limitation. As we read, the draft law will allow the Minister to increase the post-crop area by, for example: still the 80,000 hectares or other area size. We find this at first sight contrary to the agreement we made a year ago, and that is why, of course, we have also said that we do not like it, and the industry does not need further general restrictions in the current situation as we see it. In April of last year we entered into the Food and Growth Agreement in order to reduce the post-harvest demand, and the government is now entitled, as in the case of the written proposal before us, to increase it, and we could hardly see that as anything other than a breach of the agreement we had made. So we cannot therefore support what is now in writing, but I hope that the signals that we are now receiving orally that the Minister will withdraw the authorisation will hold out, and we will then be able to follow this up in the legislative process. There is also a need to discuss environmental focus, land and flexibility, and what can count on, and what it is that farmers have to deal with in concrete terms, when we hope at some point we will be well done dealing with this bill. We also understand as a starting point that the proposal has been tried to provide farmers with additional alternatives to catch crops, and it is, of course, good to have it as an approach. We do, of course, have that too, including setbacks and certain types of grass, and that further post-crop requirements should neutralise the N effect in cases where alternatives were to be used. However, we see a number of problems in this approach, first and foremost there will be a redistribution of the post-crop requirement. Some will have increased costs of catch crops without any equivalent gain, because they do not have brackish or grass, while others will have reduced the demand for catch crops only because they already have brackish or grass. For the current serious economic situation in agriculture it is not time to increase the restrictions on some, we in the Left believe. In general, the redistribution risks favouring some forms of production at the expense of others, for example, pig producers will typically not be able to have significant grasslands. The redistribution also runs the risk of favouring more extensive farms at the expense of more intensive ones, the latter being typically, for example, more extensive farms. will not have land set aside and will not thereby contribute to strengthening growth and employment in the industry, which was actually a fundamental approach for us when we concluded the Food and Growth Agreement. So we are asking for a meeting of the circle of parties to the Food Growth Agreement to be convened as soon as possible to discuss these issues, as we in the Left cannot support the present proposal, but we are, of course, prepared to take part in the meeting in order to get these things back on track. So we look forward to the Minister's comments later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164403	There is a brief comment. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164406	Now it may be a little difficult to find a way around the negotiations that are taking place between the Left and the Government sometimes. I understand that, sir. Erling Bonnesen has a bit of a problem too. But I just want to ask Mr. Erling Bonnesen: The bill that lies here is not about rolling an element from the green growth agreement that V, K and DF signed back in 2009, back? It was then It is therefore the environmental gain agreed by the Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party in 2009, that has now been agreed with the government to roll back. Is it not quite correct that this is what this is all about? It's not about cleaning up after something, the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164459	Now it is possible that Enhedslisten has its own such approach to try, if I may say so, to put an interpretation into this. In the Left, we are completely related to what we agreed in April 2014, and that shows that the area of catch crops should also be reduced. Of course, we still have to take good care of our environment. We have also marked that on a number of occasions. So the bill here is actually just going to translate parts of what we agreed in April 2014, and that is what we are then asking for to get back on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164529	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164533	I think I have understood what was agreed in 2014, although there is a little disagreement between the government and the Left about what it was actually. I just want to ask: is it not understood that the increased post-crop requirement with a further 140,000 hectares, which you remove with this bill, was originally an agreement between the Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party from 2009, which was then announced under the name "Green Growth" and that what you are now doing with the government is removing environmental improvements that the old VK government had agreed with the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164613	Well I shall not participate in Enhedslisten's interpretation; it may Enhedslisten like itself work with. We are going to take stock of the fact that agriculture is in this extremely difficult situation. We must, of course, take good care of our environment, and we think that the overall agreement will also deal with and take good care of the environment. Then all we have to do is translate these parts as we have agreed. That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164635	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Orla Sea as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127164640	As mentioned, the government and the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party last year concluded an agreement on the "Growth Plan for Food." This is an important agreement because it indicates that there is great potential in agriculture if we take the right steps. Through the growth plan, we have set the course for growth and employment and better export opportunities, both for Danish agriculture and for food and food technology companies. We already have a strong agriculture and food production, especially in international competition. At the same time, we can see that there is an increasing need for more and better food because of global population growth and an increase in prosperity. In addition, Danish agriculture has some quite tangible economic challenges. We must also recognise that. There is therefore reason to improve the conditions of a sector that is both challenged but also has great and undissolved potential. With the growth plan, we are developing and exploiting the Danish forces in the food sector to seize the new growth opportunities for the food industry. It is against this background that we are dealing with L 112 today, which deals with a number of rules on plant cover. Part of it is a technique which is difficult to make particularly exciting, but the draft law is a coinage, as Mr. Per Clausen referred to the "Growth Plan for Food" and this means that the previous requirement for 140,000 hectares of targeted catch crops is dropped. The increase was otherwise a consequence of the previous government's agreement... Green Growth... which increased the crop demand by 140,000 hectares to total 380,000 hectares at national level. As you know, the Nature and Environment Complaints Board ignored these plans and, for that reason, there was never a demand for the targeted 140,000 hectares. That is why, with L 112, we are now simplifying the requirements for crop rotation. In concrete terms, the draft law means that the requirement for the 140 000 hectares will lapse. On the other hand, the general post-harvest requirement is increased by 60 000 hectares and thus contributes to the implementation of the EU Water Framework and Nitrates Directive. These are directives designed to ensure that groundwater, watercourses, lakes and coastal waters are protected against pollution and to prevent interference which is detrimental to the good ecological condition of waters. The general post-crop requirement at national level has thus been reduced by 80,000 hectares and, with the bill, total 300,000 hectares. In short, L 112 thus means a simplification of the post-crop requirement. At the same time, the draft law provides for the possibility of establishing pilot schemes using alternative post-crop settings. We must reach out to those who dare take the initiative to think in new and effective ways. We are giving this opportunity with the bill. Overall, L 112 means that we simplify the rules for catch crops and, at the same time, meet the EU's requirements. That's common sense. Against this background, the Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127165013	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127165032	Thank you. When you sit and prepare to deal with such a bill as L 112, the whole thing should actually be positive, because this is the way to roll out an agreement that we are part of. In order to go back to the agreement, it has to be said that the Food Safety Plan Agreement is also a positive agreement where we have been looking at what it is we can do legislatively to support the profession forward-looking in a difficult time. I'm really glad that the government, when we made this agreement on the Gap Plan for Food, was in a different fashion than they are now. At that time, we looked with us at what kind of road we have to go to support the industry, while, of course, we do not want to compromise on nature and the environment. A few months have passed since then, and the Parliamentary Chamber has perhaps also gone into such a little electoral mode, or whatever to call it, and that is why the opinions are split up. And it's a little annoying when you listen to the daily buzz that the government is again moving a lot to the left in relation to this growth agenda. It is, after all, with the glasses on which the proposal is being read here, also in relation to the authorisation. Because when we look at what is in the agreement here, we have to say that what needs to be implemented here is what was also asked about before • is the part of the agreement that the Danish People's Party has entered into with other parties and the government. We are, of course, on the goal of that, it is a good agreement. What we cannot quite measure up to is precisely the fact that this authority is being granted to the Minister. Because in relation to what we have heard in the last few months, we in the Danish People's Party are nervous that you will use this authority to go a different way than the spirit of the agreement on the Growth Plan for Food. That is why we would recommend to the Minister that in this case the Minister removes the possibility of authorisation given to the Minister, and we can of course vote for the rest. There are some other things in relation to grass and other things that must also be included in the greening, in relation to these areas that need to be tampered with, in relation to the European Union, where it will probably be necessary for us to have a discussion on how to put this into practice. Otherwise, however, we would say that the proposal here is positive enough, but with regard to authorisation we see some challenges in relation to the debate that has been going on over the last few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127165257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127165304	A strong agriculture that creates quality products and jobs that is what the government wants to support; that is what we have spent the last 3 years implementing; that is what makes even on the Machine magazine's website the government can sometimes win a vote like the one that has done most for agriculture. But we also want Denmark to have clean groundwater; we want clear fjords and we want live watercourses. We want nature where there is room for animals and plants and that Denmark can remain a rich country where there is a living nature that is diverse and not completely monotonous. In fact, we should all be able to agree on this vision. At any rate, I have not met many farmers who disagree that we must have strong agriculture, clean water and a living nature. But it is not an easy balance to find. If we did not at all worry about our nature and how our water is doing, we could, as is suggested in one of the next discussions, simply remove environmental regulation and then start cleaning up when accidents have happened. Perhaps I would like to warn against that. It is true that I did not live in the 1960s and all parts of the 1970s, but I remember the results in the period around 1986, when we could pick dead lobsters out of the water, and where the fish lay with the belly in the air, and where we got rugged fjords. And yes, I must also say that at the moment we are still cleaning up our groundwater after pesticides that were used 25 years ago. I remember saying at the time: 'Well, it takes 25 years before it reaches groundwater, so what's the problem?' That is, of course, the problem we are facing today, and it is a very, very expensive and also not very clever approach, just like saying: let us do something about the problems once they arrive. Then, of course, you can also jump into the other ditch and think that we must remove all intensive farming in Denmark and that we must be such a small fairy tale country where not a single pig is really produced. It is also a really bad idea because we have many jobs linked to our food industry and we are known in the world for too much, very good raw materials and, in general, for good agricultural products. There are, of course, both jobs and exports linked to this. Besides that, agriculture is quite an important natural care provider in Denmark, so we should actually be really happy with this interaction. Therefore, the government has spent these 3 years looking for a third way to look for the balance that both provides a robust and exciting nature and clean water while ensuring an agriculture where we can get the best technologies in use so that we can be effective and accurate in the production we make. That's why the government did a lot of work with the Government's Nature and Agriculture Commission, and that's why we've started a lot of work to ensure that we get more targeted and smarter regulation done. This is also something we have all been able to agree on: it is good to make targeted regulation, it is good to use some new technologies. But then there are some who are so busy in this Parliament that you will not wait for the technologies to be in place, that the measurement methods are in place and that the regulation can be made, so that you plunge into all sorts of patch solutions to get away so quickly. It has puzzled us a little that we want to move from targeted catch crops to more general ones, and that was one of the things we brought in to get a broad agreement on food. However, I would like to ask again that we try to give it the time it takes to figure out how to make targeted regulation and find out how to do it here in the way that can precisely safeguard the balance and not play gambling, either with our nature or with our food industry. So today I want to say that you sometimes have to be careful what you want, because you can go and get it. We have been a little surprised that some people wanted both more general regulation and, in fact, a little less effective regulation. There will be some of the things you have wanted with the new catch crops, which actually produce fewer results where we are looking for them. But that's the way it is when you make a deal. Then you have to give what people want. So you have to remember that what you want, you can sometimes go and get, and that is what we have delivered to our contractual partners on these after-crops.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127165737	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127165757	Unfortunately, I do not entirely agree with my colleague from the Radicals' very positive approach to this. SF is not included in the growth agreement for precisely the environmental reasons, which also means that we cannot vote in favour of this proposal, as it will increase nitrogen pollution by over 1,000 tonnes and CO2 If it is a question of compensating or reducing pollution by other more intelligent proposals, we will of course be positive, but we think that the proposal is too one-sided only for the benefit of the industry and not with the right balance for nature and environmental considerations as well. The growth agreement with the VKO comes from the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission on a balanced approach to business on the one hand, and nature and environment on the other. Jørn Jespersen, the chairman of the Government's Nature and Agriculture Commission, said, after the growth agreement was concluded, to Altinget and I quote: "This agreement respects competitiveness. The idea of our recommendations was to improve nature, the environment and competitiveness, so I hope that there will soon be some action on nature and the environment. On the other hand, we believe that there is a constructive proposal from the Minister for Food in the bill not to penalise farmers who have already made other efforts. The Minister for Food wishes to be able to meet the industry's demands for more and more attractive alternatives and credit the farmers' front-runners by increasing in some cases the post crop requirement beyond the 300 000 hectares at national level. This could happen where a farmer has already implemented other measures against nitrogen and which have already been included in the aquatic environment efforts. So this so-called frontrunner should not be laying crops because he or she has already made an effort. An increase in the single area of catch crops will ensure that there is no further under-implementation of the nitrogen reduction. However, the SF cannot vote in favour of the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127170006	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no too brief remarks, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127170018	In many ways this is an exciting and interesting bill which, if you look at it a little historically, also marks a new low point in Danish environmental policy. In 2009 the then VK government carried out an agreement with the Danish People's Party on what was called "Green Growth'. At that time, the opposition at that time, some of which are currently members of the government, agreed that it was completely inadequate from the point of view of the environment, and it was promised that, after a forthcoming election, when a new government and a new majority came in, it would be taken into the other hand. If it had been said at the time that a Social Democratic radical government would enter into an agreement with the Left, Conservative, Danish People's Party and Liberal Alliance to remove one of the few effective environmental measures in Green Growth, then one would probably have been accused of being overly negative, skeptical, black-sighted and anything else. Nevertheless, that is what is happening here. It will, of course, be such somewhere even more curious, because at a time when everyone agrees that we must make a determined effort and make targeted regulation, carefully go in and remove a targeted regulation, which we know has a really, very good effect, both in terms of dealing with nitrogen leaching and in terms of solving some of the climate challenges we face. This determined effort is taken in and removed, and instead of agreeing that we should have a little more of it in general terms. At first sight, this is contrary to everything that appears in the Nature and Agriculture Commission's report, and to all advice and guidance. The truth is also that the only reason we could agree on this in the so-called growth negotiations was that for the Left and, as far as I have understood, the Left was the main negotiator, and then the others were allowed to come in at the end; we also received the same offer, but said no. Well, it was also contrary to what the Nature and Agriculture Commission had said, because the Nature and Agriculture Commission had just stressed that there was a need for increased efforts to safeguard nature and the environment, but that this should be done by means of targeted action and that the targeted effort should be organised in such a way that it could also ensure that there could be better earnings in agriculture. This is where everything was turned upside down. Because you were not ready with the tools needed to make a targeted effort, you chose to do exactly the opposite. The consequence of this is, of course, that we have here a legislative proposal which means clear deterioration in relation to the protection of nature and the environment and in relation to nitrogen emissions and which contains clear deterioration in relation to the climate. It is a deterioration that the government has subsequently tried to compensate for by making other agreements with Enhedslisten and SF, where we thus try to repair the damage. In this way, it has to be said that the government is trying so desperately to make this happen, but it has to be said that the legislative proposal before us today clearly points in the wrong direction. Then the Minister has made a small attempt to do something that could be a little targeted and a little sensible, namely to say that we would like to reward farmers who have taken the lead, but look at that we cannot. For as Mr. Erling Bonnesen said very clearly that not a single farmer in this country should be subject to a single additional requirement, even if that additional requirement is a consequence of the fact that other farmers are made better. It simply has to be the case that in order for the Left to be able to join, everything has to move environmentally and naturally at the lowest possible pace. I think that is rather sad, I would say, because I think that agreements and solutions could be made on the environment, nature and agriculture, which were much more forward-looking, which gave us much more opportunity in the future to have a thriving food business in this country instead of the backward looking back to the time before the Green Growth Policy, which the Left stands for in this debate. As a result, we cannot vote in favour of the draft law, but should the government get into serious trouble in the continuing negotiations with the right, we are always available to make good and sustainable solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127170522	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127170531	Thank you. When the agreement was made on the wake-up plan for Food, it was agreed that the purpose was to have clean groundwater, clear watercourses, vibrant nature and economically strong agriculture, and that we should have created some more jobs. Now the government has put forward a proposal to amend the law of fertilization, and I would like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance are extremely surprised that we have not been called for talks on this proposal before it has been tabled. For the matter is that the requirement for the 140,000 hectares of catch crops should lapse. On the other hand, the overall yield requirement is increased by 60,000 hectares, so that the total yield requirement is 300,000 hectares at national level. At the same time, the proposed proposal also provides for authorisations which we cannot in any way subscribe to in the Liberal Alliance. We are dissatisfied with the authorisations and we are unhappy with the increase in the demand for catch crops. We still have to see evidence that it actually affects the leaching of nitrate. So what lies with the proposal we are talking about now, L 112, is even more restrictions, and the intention of the Food Aid Plan agreement was actually exactly the opposite. We want alternatives such as set-aside and permanent grass to be introduced without increasing the general crop requirements. Nor do we see any transparent calculations of the increased costs involved in the proposal being made in the proposal. We are therefore very much looking forward to hearing the Minister for Food's statement on this, and we look forward to having some discussions on how this should end. At the same time, I would like to make a comment on Mr Seligman's report. Per Clausen. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not have anything at all against the introduction of new requirements for agriculture if they are professionally and objectively justified and if they are accompanied by the removal of all the demands on agriculture today, which are not technically justified.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127170756	There are no brief comments here either, so thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127170804	Thank you. As a starting point, we should support this bill, as it comes from an agreement, namely the Food Safety Plan agreement, which the Conservative People's Party also helped to conclude with a view both to ensuring a positive development of the Danish raw materials base and to strengthening the competitiveness of agriculture and the food sector. Alternatives to catch crops, as proposed here, are positive. It is positive that various pilot projects are also being launched. The agreement that we concluded contains, among other things, the following: a point on the simplification of peripheral zones and the laying of catch crops. Here, the targeted catch crops of 140 000 hectares are lost, and at the same time, we chose to increase the general catch requirement by the 60 000 hectares already mentioned by several rapporteurs. So far, so good. However, the fact that in the proposal the Minister now wants to have the authority to implement even more after-harvest requirements, in addition to the 60 000 hectares which are otherwise black and white in the political agreement, is of course not okay. The purpose of the growth agreement was to reduce the yield requirement. Now, instead of being able to increase it, you want to be able to increase it. On the basis of several of the consultations, the Ministry of Food writes among other things. in a note to the bill: the Ministry of Food acknowledges that the proposal provides for a general increase in post-crops in determining the alternative in question,.... The Ministry of Food acknowledges that it cannot be ruled out that the increase in the post-crop claim may result in an increase in financial costs compared with individual agricultural enterprises,.... Of course, that is not okay, and it is a breach of the agreement that we have entered into. That is why we are a little surprised that the Minister did not want to discuss this with the parties to the agreement before we had to deal with the proposal today. But it sounds so on the water pipes that run with the Left that they will. I have not heard it, but it sounds like it, and we will of course welcome it. Because it is scandalous if we go into areas that we agreed in the agreement that we should not go into. So we look forward to hearing from the Ministry after this first reading, so we can get on with many of the good things that are in this. However, as it stands right now, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171038	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the rapporteur's line, and I shall give the floor to the Minister for Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171045	Thank you. As you know, the bill is part of the agreement on the "Growth Plan for Food', which was concluded in the spring of 2014, a plan that was very much welcomed by the industry. Several representatives from the profession estimated that it could probably create up to 25,000 jobs by 2020. The core of the bill here today is part of the overall package and deals with a reduction in the water plans' after crop requirements. This means that the requirements for the farmer to place a certain quantity of the so-called post-crops on his holding are being reduced. This gives the farmer more flexibility to plan the work on his farm, and it will help to strengthen the Danish raw material base and thus create growth in agriculture. A number of the bourgeois parties have not concealed the fact that they would have liked to have lowered the demand further or simply removed it. However, that is not the agenda of the legislative proposal. With the bill, we have to implement what has been agreed in the Growth Plan for Food, no more and no less. In addition to the implementation of the Food Aid Plan agreement, I have also proposed that agriculture should be able to meet environmental requirements more cheaply and flexibly. It is not something that has been done to bother agriculture; it is not something that has been done to bring about less growth; it is something that has been done so that the farmer can respond more cheaply and flexibly to environmental requirements. That is why the proposal provides for an authorisation to raise the post-crop requirement when new instruments are introduced. This has given rise to some misunderstandings in the consultation process and, I can hear today, quite a few misunderstandings in this Chamber. Authorisation is simply about responding to a desire from the industry for more flexibility and that we reward those farmers who, on their own initiative, do something good for the environment. However, since I understand from the parties to the agreement behind the GPS for Food, that there is no support for the food and, of course, I think that is a pity I therefore propose that we withdraw that part and that the bill be adapted. It is sad, and that is a pity, and the bourgeois parties must take that on their own afterwards, when they have to explain themselves, but of course I am happy to do so. I look forward to a good and constructive committee work on the Danish Parliament's Food Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171337	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171343	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister a question, because it is interesting when the Minister says he's just been trying to make this bill a little better for the industry and something like that. And that is, in fact, positive, but now it is the case that when an agreement has been reached, the agreement will be implemented. If you get smarter in the meantime, is it really a good custom for you to take in your conciliation partners and say: if we are going to put this bill into practice, should we do it in another way? Then you just have to say in relation to this, with the authority of ministers, regardless of the colour of the government, that there is also the possibility of using its authority on other matters. What you can read is what is intended and it may well be that the intention is good now when it comes to having this authority, but the authority continues to stand up to believers later too, which is why perhaps it would have been appropriate for the Minister to have been forthcoming and to have said: we have had a good idea over in the Ministry of Food, and this happens often, so we should try to make this bill again? This has not happened, and that is why we have to assess what is behind the Minister's desire for this kind of authorisation. What is stated and what has been presented may be positive enough, but the authorisation can, of course, be more than that, and I am sure the Minister will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171454	No, I do not agree with that, and I also think that both myself and my ministry have responded readily to all the questions that have been raised. I would like to acknowledge that this area is a little bit complex, but I nevertheless think that everyone, including the rapporteur himself, is so well involved that it should not really be more complex than it is to be considered. But, as I said, I am not going to force anything down the throats of the bourgeois parties here. If you do not want to meet the industry's desire to have more flexibility and easier to meet their environmental requirements, I cannot force you to do so. That's okay, but you'll be allowed to stand up to that for yourself in relation to the profession when you're going to be faced with questions after we now, unfortunately, have to pull this part out of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171538	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171541	[Sound Falls]... The fg. President Klint): The questioner has to wait until the lamp lights up. We're gonna need to get some audio on. Sound's on. The deal that's made is all right. Then the Minister says that we now have an authorisation, and then it can get even better. You just have to take note of the text, that is to say, that it is intended It is just as a conciliation party quite interesting to find out what the intention is to use it for. For it can also be used for much else, and that is what I said in the rapporteur's speech. Because if you wanted to change something in the agreement, you could have called the conciliation parties and asked: should we change the agreement in this direction? Then we would not have had to give an authorisation, and then we could have just had a debate about whether we would change the agreement in a certain direction. The Minister has not chosen to do so. The Minister has chosen to say that the Ministry and the Minister would like to have a mandate so that, without asking the Danish Parliament, it can change the agreement that has been reached. And there we just say that without any prior contact we do not want to change the agreement that has been reached. We want the agreement that has been reached and, as such, it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171709	Well, that has been noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171711	The next brief remark is Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171716	It's just that I can't quite figure this out that I'm going to ask the minister a question. I understand that this authority has not been agreed, but is there anything at all in the way of a majority in the Folketing adopting that power, in other words the government has committed itself not to seeking a majority in order to have such a power adopted? I have not read the text that way, but it may be that it is understood correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171740	I do not know whether this is the case in legal and technical terms, but I regard it as part of the agreement made with the bourgeois parties here who have expressed themselves. That is why it is clear that I am not going to seek an alternative majority for this part, but I understand if Mr. Per Clausen wonders a little, because it is precisely a proposal which the industry itself has sought and which will, of course, make it easier and better and more flexible to introduce environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171806	Sir. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171808	After all, we must always look at the possibilities of making improvements, even when the government has bound itself, if not on its hands and feet, then at least close. I would just like to say to the Minister that if, in other ways, we can achieve results that will make the administration of what is here more flexible, without conflicting with the agreement that has been made with the right wing, we are fully prepared to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171832	That has been noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171834	Then there is one more for short remarks. Sir. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171842	This area was not quite clear in April when this growth plan was negotiated. After all, it is a question of how to implement the requirements of greening, to put it in Danish: the requirements of environmental focus areas. There are a number of options for us on the basis of which the European Union is founded. I should just like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to call a debate on how environmental focus areas and environmental focus areas in Denmark can be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171918	No, that is to say, we have adopted the legislation that is needed at this stage in implementing the European Union's greening, as the questioner rightly refers to it in New Danish. So no, there are no current plans for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171933	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127171937	Then we have to note that that part of it does not want to go further, although no one at that time knew the general conditions of the proposal that has now been made and which, for natural reasons, was not part of the agreement. We must then note that the Minister does not want to complete it or find a compromise among the parties to the agreement on how environmental focus areas can be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172005	This is certainly not something I intend to do in connection with this legal procedure. I am always open to good suggestions, and Mr. Henrik Høegh has also been welcome to ask questions throughout this process. He did, too. It would have been nice if he had also shared it with his colleagues in the party, so you could have avoided answering many questions twice and misunderstandings, i.e. people who say in the press that you will not support an entire proposal, even if it is part of the agreement, and other things. But leave that part alone, and let me stress once again that the conclusion of what we are discussing here is that I am not being mean to agriculture, not to restrict the growth of agriculture, but to respond to a request from agriculture, has put forward a proposal which I know, in any case, Mr President. Henrik Høegh understands, and you haven't wanted that. All right, I'll take note of that, and then it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172052	I have one more inscribed for short remarks, yes, I actually have two now. But the first one is sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172059	Thank you. We also think that the agreement that dates back to April 2014 is a good agreement. And that is also what we have of course taken stock of should be implemented and where part of it should be implemented here. There it was so that we could see that the chain, as it were, went off in connection with this with authorisation, which has also been discussed here in the debate. So I am satisfied with the question from the Enhedslisten as to whether the Minister would then seek the majority on that side of the Chamber in order to implement it anyway that the Minister will not. I welcome the fact that we can, as it were, keep the matter on track. Then the Minister is putting up a little bit to say that it is a pity that we cannot then look at the improvements that could then lie in it. But that is exactly what we could then discuss. We in the Left should not, of course, stand in the way of discussing some improvements within the agreement we have. I understand that the Minister will not, but then it is the Minister who is running away from it, and of course the Minister himself will have to explain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172157	Well, there have been contacts between the government and the Left. I don't know if the questioner is going to push me by saying who we've been negotiating with, but it's not like I need to stand up here and show you. But that is a little difficult for us if we are to negotiate with three or four different people at three or four different levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172217	The questioner with a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172221	Well then, it could be an excellent idea, as an earlier questioner has also mentioned, if the Minister would call for a discussion so that we could look at the possibilities of the agreement we have made. So it is up to us to say: are there any improvements that could be made? It could be flexibility or environmental focus areas within the options that now lie in the rules that are but were not there at the time we made the GPS for Food. It was nice to have a discussion about it over a cup of coffee. So we can invite the Minister to invite us to a cup of coffee, but it is up to the Minister whether to look at it. We cannot but call for this, but it is so done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172303	The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172306	Thank you. I'm just curious. I would like to know who, in agriculture, has demanded that the demand for catch crops be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172316	It is not the case that agriculture generally wants to increase the demand for catch crops, but it is the case that agriculture would like to have more flexibility. I do not think I am going to stand here and name specific names for the simple reason that it is my duty to have such dialogues with the various organisations. This is hardly the organisation with which I think the questioner is in close contact, namely sustainable agriculture. I do not think that they are going to engage in this kind of discussion because they simply want all environmental legislation to be removed and they should not be subject to crop requirements at all. However, agriculture & Food and others have quite often demanded greater flexibility and the possibility of some farmers taking the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172403	The questioner for the second brief remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172406	In the Liberal Alliance we are in contact with both the concrete farmers, Sustainable Agriculture and Agriculture & Food. We are in contact with all those interested in Danish agriculture. However, I think it is quite nice to make it clear right here that what agriculture has asked for is more flexibility. So it is not that the demand for catch crops should be increased. And these are two completely different things. So when the Minister stands on the floor and says that even here among the bourgeois parties we can explain to agriculture that they do not want to comply with their wishes, I would just like the Minister to state quite clearly that we agree that what is demanded is more flexibility. These are not increased requirements for the catch crops.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172456	This is an attempt to meet that requirement in a specific way in which we use catch crops. You can't just meet a demand that says that we give more flexibility, and if there is an environmental lack, then peace be with it. It's self-evident. But anyway, I can just stress again: listen, I'm really not trying to push anything down your throats. If you don't want this, don't. We're just pulling it out. If you don't think there's something to explain to agriculture, fine. Then there's nothing to explain. It's not like I've pulled out of the blue like that and something that I think I'm just gonna do for fun. In fact, it is a real attempt to try to do some of the things that you normally advocate, by the way, namely to provide more flexibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172545	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172605	The debate is open and the first speaker is the Minister for Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127172631	Thank you for the floor. I have read the motion for a resolution with interest and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting a discussion on the issue of nitrogen pollution in agriculture on the agenda. The proposal represents the vision of the Liberal Alliance for future nitrogen regulation of the agricultural sector. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to call it a fantasy rather than a vision: a fantasy about the dismantling of agricultural nitrogen regulation. Because that is really what you are proposing. Today we have what can be called a general regulation of agricultural nitrogen emissions. We make the same demands for nitrogen reduction for all farmers, although we know that there are some places in the country where the aquatic environment is more vulnerable than elsewhere, and that there are also places where the soil can absorb nitrogen better than it can elsewhere. This is because so far we have not had the technology and knowledge to target efforts where the need is greatest, and that is precisely what the government wants to change with more targeted environmental regulation. The situation in agriculture could be compared right now with, for example, the situation in agriculture. Transport policy. And then the fact is that because we have such a one size fits all-in approach to it, where everyone is regulated equally, the proposal here actually corresponds to saying that although it makes sense that in some places you can only drive 50 km/h, in others 100 km/h. and elsewhere 150 km/h, then you choose to set the limit just about 100 km/h from an average point of view. Of course, it is a simplistic one, but it is to illustrate it with an example. What the Liberal Alliance is proposing is that instead of regulating agricultural nitrogen regulation, we simply measure whether problems arise in the aquatic environment and then engage in voluntary measures as needed. In other words, the Liberal Alliance proposes to set the speed limit at maximum speed everywhere. And when the accident has occurred, voluntary measures are put in place to slow down. It won't be on my watch. I am not prepared to jeopardise the progress of the last 25 years on the Danish aquatic environment. I have also noticed that the Liberal Alliance has been considering the socio-economic consequences of removing the current regulation. According to the comments to the motion for a resolution, the proposed regulation could lead to no less than 34 billion. kr. in increased revenue in the balance of payments, 35,000 new jobs and 34 per cent growth. I have read the report you are quoting from, and I would like to take the liberty of reading out a few small passages from the so-called method section of the report: what are scenarios? Scenarios describe opportunities in the future. These are pictures of a possible and probable future. • By drawing up several scenarios for future development, a space is provided within which future development will take place in the space of opportunity. Okay, okay, okay, I would have imagined that the method section would include a description of how the economic potential of another regulation had been calculated. But the authors probably saved that for the analysis section, I thought about it and read on. The section where the economic potential is described begins with the following: The sun shines, the birds sing, and there is so green out here in the countryside. We are in 2020 and in the last 7-8 years there has been a great upheaval for Danish agriculture. Forgotten is the past's tight economy and crisis, forgotten are the very detailed field plans, manure plans,...·. It certainly sounds nice, but it still didn't show how to calculate the promising potential, so I read on faithfully. And you know what? The 14-page analysis section of the report, or analysis, is a consistent description of the historical development of agriculture, after which figures are quoted for the potential in 2020 without the shadow of explanation of how historical development is projected. There is no analysis, there is no method, and we do not know where the figures come from. Let me be quite clear: we do not need quick solutions to put the last 25 years of action on the aquatic environment at risk. I will not set in motion a new system until we have the professional and administrative basis fully in place. Having said that, I am, of course, fully aware that agriculture is in a fragile situation because of the debt situation and trade sanctions against Russia, and that is why the government has also set in motion a series of measures to help farmers in the current crisis. The government spends 651 million. kr. in 2014-15 to support environmental technology in new stables, and with the latest Finance Act we have set aside 120 million. kr. to support ecology. It's money that, among other things. to promote exports, and we have also launched an export strategy to open up several markets to Danish food companies. With the obvious shortcomings in the motion for a resolution tabled, I must say that neither I nor the government can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173225	Thank you, Minister. I do not see any brief comments, as we do not have the habit of doing when it is a motion for a resolution. So we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173243	Thank you. Danish agriculture is in a very serious economic situation. It is not only the pressure caused by the current Russian import restrictions and the currently pressured world market prices, but also, to a large extent, by the generally poor framework conditions that Danish farmers have if compared with farmers in other countries, even countries close to Denmark. The situation is so serious that it calls for action. This is serious for agriculture and for farmers, and we are now hearing virtually daily about agricultural bankruptcies. It is not just a few inefficient farms that have got into a mess. It is also efficient and well-managed agricultural holdings that account for a large part of the raw material production for food businesses that are on the verge. This is also a problem for food companies, and many, many jobs in society are now in danger of being lost. The crisis is now so serious that it has also become a social problem that the government should address. We have not heard much from the government about the current situation, but I expect us to do so now in the debate on the proposals we are discussing here today. Does the government agree that this is a serious economic situation in which agriculture and food businesses are in and that it has also become a social problem? Does the government agree with this and, if so, what will the government do about it? We must demand an answer from the government and demand that it respond to it. After all, the Prime Minister has also come to the conclusion that there should be initiatives in the field of growth measures, and it would then be obvious to look at agriculture and food companies. In the Left, too, we have long pointed to the poor framework conditions under which Danish agriculture suffers and to the need to do something about the conditions of competition, so that farmers can operate profitablely and earn a return on and repay the debt, which is large. In the Left, we think it is positive that the Liberal Alliance, too, takes up with this proposal the important agenda on the Danish agricultural framework conditions and tries to find initiatives that can benefit the industry. After all, the resolution addresses some of the same issues that we in the Left, together with the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, have found solutions to in our motion for a resolution on an agricultural and food package. I welcome the fact that the proposals from all four parties in blue camp point in the same direction, namely that there should be improvements to the framework conditions and that we should have done away with the under-utilisation. It is almost a scandal that we have come to that, that farmers should not give the crops in the fields the manure that the plants need. This gives too low yields and too little protein content with losses in both field and barn. Then there are some technical challenges in the proposal that need to be looked at when the debate is over and that hopefully needs to be brought forward. We in the Left would like to enter into positive discussions so that we can remove the under-utilisation without damaging the environment. In this context, we will also discuss targeted environmental regulation in practice with measurements so that the right instruments can be implemented in the right places, so that plants can be fed into the manure they need on an optimal agricultural basis and, of course, without harming the environment or animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173619	There is one with a brief comment. Sir. Per Clausen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173625	Sir. Erling Bonnesen operates with a term called the fertiliser that the plants need. Is it, sir? Erling Bonnesen here believes exactly the amount which is the maximum that the plans can tolerate before they are damaged and where it is to be expected that the financial gain is maximum? I mean, is that what you're supposed to do everywhere? Is that it, sir? Erling Bonnesen means by what he says?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173649	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173651	Thank you. Now, there are experts who are good at calculating that. There are also methods today that you can give them different names where you measure it according to how much manure farmers really have to give. What is so puzzling is that one withdraws it from the standards that exist today, and then it is that one gets into the under-fertilization situation. So that's why it's the concept that we need to get rid of the underbath. This must, of course, be done in a way that does not harm the environment, and we must, of course, still have clean water in our taps. We are all interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173724	Then that is the questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173727	But is Mr. Erling Bonnesen disagree with the fact that there are large areas in Denmark where it would have negative environmental and natural consequences if maximum fertilization were to take place? Is Mr. Erling Bonnesen disagrees with that? Does he think that all over Denmark you can just go up to this maximum, and that it doesn't have any negative consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173752	Well, the fields are different. We all know that when we've also tried to wear the rubber boots and get around. I don't think anyone is in doubt about that. And then there will also be different expectations of yield and different expectations of how much manure it takes. There is, of course, a whole series of technical methods to calculate this, and that is what I am referring to, because the speaking time here is not enough to explain it. I can only make it clear that it is precisely a question of achieving that the plans are given the manure that is going to the place in question so that they can develop optimally in agriculture without harming the environment. That is what needs to be found, and that is what we have seen as the intentions of the Food and Growth Agreement. It's been a long time along the way, but we're trying to push.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173835	The next brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173839	I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Erling Bonnesen, whether he agrees with the guiding principle of the Nature and Agriculture Commission that we need to get some more targeted regulation going, but also look more specifically at where it is that we step in with legislation and regulation, and that we base ourselves on how the land is exactly the place to regulate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127173907	Yes, of course we need to move forward with targeted regulation. That's what I'm hearing... I think almost everyone agrees with. That is also what we are asking for, so that we can get it rolled out and get away from some theoretical calculations and try to get out in reality and measure it so that we can put in the right instruments. Then, of course, on those areas that cannot carry so much manure, you have to deal with it, or you can solve it by putting in place other methods of action and instruments, more minive areas, or what it can be in individual places. That is what the targeted environmental regulation is all about, in other words, that we can take good care of nature and the environment where we need to give priority to this, but also that farmers can use the good land to grow good crops and deliver raw materials to our food companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174000	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174003	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Erling Bonnesen is so relatively clear, because I think there have been various reports from the Left. For yes, as the rapporteur says, when we talk about the overall, we are all agreed that targeted regulation and so on. is really good. We agree on that. But what is at stake is that perhaps some people should be allowed to fertilize something more, others somewhat less, and that targeted regulation may mean that some people are allowed something more and others are allowed something less. That is why I interpret the answer that Mr. Erling Bonnesen has come along so that this is what the targeted approach means. This means that there are some places where you can do more, where you can fertilize more, and other places where you can fertilize less, and that this is the purpose we need and put in place. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174103	Following on from the more or less leading question, one can imagine that there are some places where it is said that there is a need to make an extra effort, precisely in order not to harm the environment. It could be precisely that one then says that in that area one makes a few more minive areas, and then one can at the same time cultivate the fields, the areas, so that one can use the potential that those fields may have, so that we still achieve what is superior, precisely that one can cultivate in the fields where one should, without harming the environment. And then priority has been given to some places where, of course, we have to make sure to invest in the environment and nature, so that we still secure clean water in the taps too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174143	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174152	Thank you. As Social Democrats, we cannot support the proposal of the Liberal Alliance. The proposal is based on a number of unfulfilled assumptions, and let me mention some of them. One of them is that we should have a known technology in terms of introducing targeted regulation. No, we haven't. But the Nature and Agriculture Commission has pointed to the possibility of developing this, and the vast majority of us have said that we think this is the right way to go, but we do not have it at this stage. Next: We have a map material that clearly describes the soil conditions, the soil type and the slope of the area. No, we haven't. And should one be in doubt, one can only refer to the discussion that led to the water plans having to go over, as a result of the authorities not having the necessary map material. We have control of climatic conditions, precipitation and irrigation. No, that is not the case. But work is being done on this in the relevant research forums. We have mastered soil use and cultivation methods, including crop rotation. No, that is not the case either. In addition, the introduction of e.g. We are aware of the need to regulate the things we are aware of at the present time, and we need to make substantial investments on the part of agriculture. These investments will even be very difficult to obtain from a pressured agriculture and from a bunch of challenged banks. Does this rejection of the Liberal Alliance proposal mean that we are not working to improve conditions for agriculture? No, by no means! The government received broad support for its growth plan from the autumn, and today we have first treated L 112, which responds to the agricultural desire for recognition of good farming practice, unless that is what the Minister is forced to take out, and I am of course sorry about that. But there is one thing we do not want to play gambling with a pressured environment in terms of the protection of our drinking water resources and in terms of living fjords, lakes, streams and streams, without having the necessary and professionally substantiated security for the effects of the changes we are implementing. We call on the other side of the House, including the Liberal Alliance, to contribute to solutions to agricultural challenges on a realistic basis and to refrain from the right to vote in elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174424	There is one too short comment. Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174429	Well, first of all, if it's electoral law, then I've been campaigning since 2011. But, of course, you can campaign for many years before the elections actually take place. But what I really want to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur can explain what quite significant investments are supposed to be made to ensure that we are able to apply the principle of equilibrium.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174454	Now we have targeted regulation, for example. to measure on the output that comes from stables and everything else, and we have seen that it simply requires that some conditions are met. The prerequisites are that new housing buildings and new equipment will be invested in the housing buildings, and I doubt that agriculture will at least be able to obtain the funding needed to meet them for the most part. As far as the other initiatives are concerned, some of the others do not meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174525	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174529	I am therefore afraid that the rapporteur has misunderstood our proposal, because the whole idea is precisely that the recipient should be measured, that watercourses should be measured. We have plenty of equipment to measure today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174549	The problem is, of course, and the Liberal Alliance has repeatedly failed to understand that the thing about going out and measuring what you emit is not a scientifically recognized method. After all, it is not recognised by the research environments on which we normally support the legislation. So it is fine that some people are experimenting with it, and it is fine that some people involve the research environments in it, but it is not on a known basis, and we do not know the consequences and impact of it. So it is on a not complete basis and that is what we do not want to experiment with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174619	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more too brief remarks. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174627	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we have read the proposal here with interest, and it can be said that the intentions of the proposal are also very similar to those of the next motion for a resolution we are going to discuss and where the Danish People's Party is co-sponsors. And when you read it, it is quite clear that what they want from the Liberal Alliance is to look at how we can help to ensure that in Danish agriculture you can produce quality food in Denmark so that you can create jobs and get a higher selling price. Then, of course, there are several options for how to support the profession. What I notice here is also the intention. • The aim should be to ensure that the modified nitrogen regulation is based as soon as possible on measured nutrient emissions from agricultural holdings. This presupposes the development of technology... In the short term, therefore, regulation will have to be based on calculated standards. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, we are very much in agreement that we want to allow for more nitrogen. We also very much agree with the Liberal Alliance that there should be measurements, in other words that it is the polluter who pays. That's the principle we have. What we are driving after today, unfortunately, is more such a model, which the Minister described very well, namely this one with kilometres of roadway, where it has been made in the same way all over the place. There is no doubt that in some places there is a need for tough regulation, but elsewhere you could probably drive 150 km/h. In some places you might only have to drive 50 km/h, and in some places you might actually have to take out land and use it for a different purpose than farmland. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the proposal, but we have to say that the pace of the proposal is quite far-reaching in relation to the way in which it is to be implemented here. However, we would like to have a dialogue with the Liberal Alliance on how to move forward with regard to the fact that Danish agriculture should have different framework conditions from those we know today, including, of course, with regard to fertilization standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174841	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127174850	I remember the last time the opposition played out with an agricultural show, I turned on my television. Then it was TV 2 that was in the country, and the first one they got was a farmer who said: yes, it all sounds very good. But he did not really believe in it and, by the way, the present government had done much more for agriculture than the previous government. It was a random farmer found by TV 2, and I actually think that it is now also the impression out there, so that there is a government here that is actually working on the things that can be done and at a pace so that we do not make any legislation that we have to remove and roll back afterwards, as we have had to do with the previous government's aquatic environment plans, which were too hasty and almost sloppy, and where we took over some of a mess that various of us have tried to clean up. So why don't we stop making the same mistake again? Let us not force anything down on agriculture for which they are not ready yet, for which the measurement methods are not ready, for which the technologies are not ready. When I listen to the debate today, we all really want to go to the same place. We would like a country where there is room for nature, where there is clean groundwater, where there are live fjords and where there are streams that are clear. We would like to have a farm that is known in the world for quality food and that can sell 1 litre of milk for 30 kroner. in China because it is produced under proper conditions and under great security. We want an agriculture that can compete with their colleagues and our neighbouring countries. But we would like to have it in a way where we have to look at the conditions that exist in Denmark. In Denmark, I think the figure is 62%, perhaps it is even more, of the country under plough; it is cultivated. That is, it's a lot of space. I remember having a visit to the Food Committee, and then there came a man with 1 m2 of lawn and showed that his field can thus tolerate that we poured out so much nitrogen and why can't we just do it all over the country? But it is because one forgets that Denmark is a country which is extremely dense and intensively cultivated. That is to say, if it were just the individual farmer here and there was no farming next door, then perhaps you could fertilize something more everywhere, so that it would be really good. However, when there is agriculture on agriculture, we have to look at what the total pressure that comes out to the aquatic environment is. That is what we want to try to move further down to and say: can we get closer and then reward those farmers who are doing very well, who are using the latest technologies that are smartest to make agriculture and use the plants that can suck the most nitrogen, etc.? But it is not an easy task; it is not something you just do with a snap with your fingers. I understand the dream that lies behind the Liberal Alliance's proposal, so that you can stand out there in the water and measure: here's nitrogen, let's rain back and up the stream, it's probably coming from this field, then we'll go in and regulate him a little harder than the neighbor who's really good. It just doesn't work like that in nature. And it's freaked me out when I was Minister for the Environment that we couldn't do this, because that's what the snuff told us. But when you learn a little bit about leaching, you find that it may be that you can stand and take a drainage water sample and say that there is no nitrogen out there, but then it may have either run down to the groundwater or into the neighbor's field and into his drain, and then it suddenly gets really complicated. So that's why targeted regulation is difficult; that's why the poor officials who sit down here and have been given a job are sweating; that's why it takes years to get this done. So if this bill is to be rushed through now, at a time when professional knowledge is not with us, when measurement methods are not clear, where the technologies we need to replace the lower fertiliser standards are not ready, we are playing gambling, both with our nature, which must take the strain, but also with the agriculture that has to change again in a moment when the European Union comes and says that it must not. That's what we've seen in the last 10-15 years. Shouldn't we be doing this right now? That's why we set up a Committee on Nature and Agriculture to look at this, so that a united Parliament, which actually agrees on the intentions, could do this right. Then we know that when the rules we make, which have to balance in this country, come out and are targeted, there are some farmers who are not actually as good as the neighbor who have to pay a bill, and there are some who get a big prize. And then what happens? It is clear that agriculture says: well, but we take the gain, the bill must be paid by society. On the radical side, we will not be involved in this. We don't want society picking up the bill. Then we must make sure that we share the gains that come and share it, that there are some who must fertilize less if we are to make targeted regulation. This is, of course, the debate we should have today not to try to push through some technologies or some measurement methods that are not ready out there. I say: Fine, show me the researchers who can tell us that it can be done that you can stand out there and measure and then can regulate and count back. They're not there. When we look into the comments of the proposal, it is a report from the Institute for Future Research to which reference is made. And the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has just said that we must be objective. Well, in the method section from which the minister read, it says that the sun is shining, and it is good weather, and we are in the year 2020. So, is this how we are going to make legislation in Denmark? Is that a matter of fact? Is that it? Because I think we should try to listen to the scientists who are. We must push them; we must find out, when there are professional differences, how to get them to talk. This is what the government has done when we try to get the Knowledge Centre for Agriculture to talk to Aarhus University. It's for us to be able to do this sensibly and properly. But I do not think it is a matter of fact to take a report and then say: well, there are 35 000 jobs and there are 35 billion. Yes, thank you. I'd like those too. But we cannot do that if it is fiction, if it does not exist, if no one has made it economically and scientifically plausible that this can be done. Therefore, I think we should discuss today how we can make this happen in a way so that we know that there are some who have to pay a bill and some who get a prize and how we get it properly distributed. That seems to me to be the discussion we have reached at this time, and the Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175450	There are two short comments at this stage. The first is Hans Christian Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175456	Thank you. This is basically because I am listening to the rapporteur's position on agriculture, and all I heard the rapporteur say was that it is going fantastic and that agriculture thinks the government is doing fantastic good. I think that a government party should be allowed to do so on its own. The only thing I would just like to ask the rapporteur for the Radicals is whether there is anything that concerns the rapporteur with regard to agriculture. Is there something that the rapporteur seems difficult in agriculture at the moment, and if so, can the rapporteur give a few examples of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175534	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175539	Now it is just not the government's way of making policy, that is to say, talking down to agriculture. We're talking to them because we actually think they can. I know there's a third out there that's doing really, really well, there's a third that's doing it with the skin on their noses, and then some people are having a really hard time. After all, we need to find a way to make sure that there are as many jobs as possible out of this and the fewest possible human fates that have to come up with something else, if it is that you cannot actually run your business, and then we need to find a way to support those who are really good. We are doing this by changing the framework conditions, and that is why there is actually recognition of what the government has done. I do not know how much muckwork the previous government has made, fat taxes, sugar levies and water plans that were in use when we got them. We've changed the waste water tax and a stair model, and we've made export plans. In fact, we have done a great many of the things that agriculture has asked us to do. However, we cannot help Russia imposing an import embargo on our goods, and then we must try to see if we can help buy up some things, if we can help with stocks, if we can help with other things. We cannot help the fact that when cereal prices are high, it is difficult to be a stock-farmer, for example. There are some conditions for agriculture that the government cannot change. I know there are things that are difficult, but it is not the government's fault that agriculture is having a hard time. That is, for example, the case. the previous government, which contributed to a debt of 350 billion. kr. This is one of the real, really serious reasons why it is difficult to farm in Denmark. I think so, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt must acknowledge that it was during his reign that there was a debt of 350 billion. kr. in agriculture, which is what they are fighting a lot with today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175712	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175714	I can hear the rapporteur getting excited, but I don't know what I got into, because suddenly there was something to talk down to and something like that. That's not what I'm discussing at all. I am trying once to ask, because I could understand that in the answer that came there was no room for answer to my question, and of course I am sorry. I would like to ask the rapporteur again: are there any things in agriculture that the rapporteur finds difficult for agriculture at the moment? I understood this with the superiors about grain and Russia and something like that, it's fine, but is there anything out there when you're sitting there looking at it like that? We hear agriculture talking about what is bothering them at the moment, and is there something that the radical rapporteur agrees with? If so, will the radical rapporteur give a few examples of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175759	I'd love to, and that's what I did earlier. I think that this is a difficult business which has a debt of 350 billion. kr. I think that's really hard. It makes it hard to borrow money, it makes it hard to invest. That debt was built up under the former government. I think it is difficult to find a regulation that is constantly being changed, and we have to do that because the previous government made such a mess and then, in opposition, spends all the time pillaging the proposals on peripheral zones, after-crops and so on. etc., which one has put on the table as government itself. I think it is difficult for regulation to be changed all the time because it was not done every year then, and that is why we propose that we take the time it takes and do it properly here. And I'm not upset at all. It's more like sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, who is. But now we're smiling at each other instead of smiling at each other and maybe we're not so disagreeable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175844	The next thing for a brief comment is Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175848	Thank you. I would like to know very briefly whether the rapporteur will agree that Denmark is underutilised in relation to the needs of plants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175857	In any case, it can be said that it is clear that many farmers would like to fertilize something more because by pouring the extra manure into their fields they could get more out of the individual field. I'd like to acknowledge that. But it's the fertilizer that, among other things, is... running into the watercourses, and that is where we need to find the right balance, so that we ensure that we produce as much as possible without harming our watercourses. With regard to the motion for a resolution itself, it says that the principle of equilibrium must be applied, but the current legislation complies with the principle of balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175928	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175929	I have to ask one more question: does the rapporteur recognise that Denmark is under-utilised? Tests have shown that fertilization can be increased as long as each kilogram of nitrogen contributes an additional 10 kg without increasing leaching. But I would like to ask one more question: does the rapporteur recognize that Denmark is under-utilised?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127175951	I clearly recognise that there are areas that could be fertilised more and that there are areas that should be fertilised less. That is why we are looking for targeted regulation. At no time have I concealed the fact that there are areas in Denmark that can tolerate more manure and that there are some that can tolerate less. That is why I think that instead of discussing whether we in the Folketing can invent some methods that do not exist, we should discuss how we distribute the bill to those who will pay a bill, namely those who are going to fertilize less. Because one might ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur: does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur recognise that there are also places where there are problems with nitrogen leaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180023	There's one more for a brief remark, and that's Mr. Knox. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180027	I would not have asked questions, but I am doing it anyway, because the rapporteur came to say that if you fertilize, that is what runs into the watercourse. As former Minister for the Environment, the rapporteur knows very well that this is not the picture that needs to be drawn, namely that when you fertilise, you pollute. That is certainly not the picture that should remain. When I stand up, it is also to say that what was also said from the platform is really complicated, and the rapporteur also knows why it is so complicated, and that is because of the last 3%. There are a lot of farmers who can see that when you read the proposal from the Liberal Alliance that could probably do this with a good farming community, and with their good intentions we could actually have free manure. It is the last part that makes it complicated and that we have to legislate. The challenge is, when we stand here in the Folketing, how to ensure that the stinging vessels do not just drive the manure 5 km away from the manure tank, because it is the cheapest, and then they provide fertilizer for the rest. Those are the challenges we have. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is somewhat simplistic to say that if you fertilize more, you also pollute more? In some places this may be true, but it is not true from a general point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180133	Actually, I disagree. If you fertilize more, there will also be a greater leaching, generally speaking. I think I have to say that I have virtually all the professional knowledge on my side. Then there will be places where you can fertilize something more without it happening and where the vast majority will be absorbed into the plants. That is where we want to give something more freedom and more opportunities to get the best out of it, preferably as close as possible. I find precision fertiliser extremely exciting. I really think it's exciting with machines that can measure N, P and K and that can go all the way down and almost precision fertilise, because then we start to get there. But that is not quite the case today. Now I have tried to drive the tractor myself and spread the manure I think it was only manure that we sprayed with at that time, and it's not like you keep starting and turning off the tractor when you're right where it's vulnerable. In order for it to be effective, you drive out there. So, yes, it's complicated. I don't think we're so divided about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180232	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We shall continue to speak for rapporteurs, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180246	The Liberal Alliance wants farmers to be allowed to fertilise economically optimally, although this is precisely contrary to the principle of the nitrate directive's equilibrium. The Danish rules to fertilise under the optimal economic conditions are precisely an approximation to the principle of equilibrium in the nitrates directive, because the optimal economic situation will result in the loss of nitrogen to the aquatic environment. The Liberal Alliance wants to measure pollution at the end of watercourses, although the quality of watercourses is also covered by EU regulation, not least the Water Framework Directive. The Liberal Alliance will, in emergency, measure the drains, although the drainage content does not say anything about the amount of nitrate that reaches the groundwater instead of the field drain pipe. The measurement of nitrate in the drain pipes is not representative of the total contamination of the area. SF would like to see a proper system of approval for sinks, not least in view of the possibilities of collecting some of the phosphorus losses by this means, preventing the release of pesticide residues into watercourses and fjords and cleaning nutrients. However, most efforts must be made to ensure targeted land regulation. It is also the most economically profitable for agriculture, rather than the general regulation that we have today. So the SF is awaiting a proposal from the government on the future targeted regulation based on retention cards, and for that reason we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180416	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180428	Thank you. In fact, I think that the Minister explained very well the challenges of the regulatory method, that is to say the general method of regulation, which was chosen in Denmark many years ago, namely that it leads to some average reflections. Moreover, it leads to a dispute between those who say that we must have so much security that we do not go too far in the most vulnerable areas, and those who say that we must do it so that we go as far as the maximum, and we do that because we can do it in a few areas, and then we do it all over the place. That is the discussion we have when we have a general regulation. When that discussion took place seriously 20 years ago, it was the basic view of Enhedslisten that a targeted regulation had to be chosen at that time. It was rejected, among other things. because it was said that it was technically difficult and impossible, and it ended up that Agriculture & Food or their predecessors, after a number of internal considerations, came to the conclusion that they were probably betting that the general regulation was most gentle with agriculture. That is precisely the discussion we are facing now, because when you talk about the plants having the manure they need, you have such a little impression that it works in such a way that as long as they get up to the maximum they can absorb, there will be no leaching. It's not like that. Almost no matter how little manure you give, in some places it will lead to a relatively large part that is washed out and elsewhere to a relatively small part. That is why, if we are to take account of both the incomes of agriculture and the nature and the environment, the limit will in most places be below the maximum. But in some places you can go up to the maximum, and if you had the necessary knowledge today, you would also be able to identify those areas precisely. In that process, we would also identify areas where it would be found that it is not reasonable to fertilise just to the minimum that makes it possible to have any benefit whatsoever and benefit from manure, and that is why it was likely that those areas would have to be withdrawn from agricultural production. That would be the only sensible thing to do. But it is just to say that the Enhedslisten basically agrees that the approach should be targeted and selective regulation in this area too. It can then be said that although the general approach was adopted a few years ago, and even though it has a great many drawbacks, it has to be said that the 25 years of work that has been done have actually been effective. The quality of the environment in the sea around Denmark has begun to improve, and therefore you can, for example, get better. also see that the amount of eelgrass grows. Well, there are improvements. It is also clear that if we then decided today that we can now see that improvements have begun to be made, then we can quietly stop, then those improvements would be rolled back, and in reality all the investments and all the effort and all the labor and trouble we have had would have been wasted. That is why, in the view of Enhedslisten, we need to act with sense in this matter. What we need now is to sort out the Danish land area, the Danish agricultural land, so that we can see where it is that we can fertilize as much as possible from the point of view of income and where it is not possible and where it is that we have to say from a rational calculation that there is really little sense here in cultivating agriculture, industrialised agriculture, in the way we are doing now. This is the work that is going on, and it is true that if you had started it 20 years ago, when Enhedslisten thought you should go that way, you would probably have been longer with it now than you are, but the reality is that we certainly have to go in the 2016-17 growing season before you can say anything about this with some certainty. Then we hope that we can make this targeted regulation in a sensible way. We just think it would be really, really disastrous if we decided today to take the position that we are unleashing everything, and then we intervene where things are going wrong, also because this takes just as long to correct, so once things have gone wrong, it is really, really hard to do it, and it is also from any economic point of view a stupid way to do it. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180913	There is a brief comment from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180917	Thank you. I just want to know whether the rapporteur will agree that the reduction in nitrogen emissions actually took place even before we got the aquatic environment plans. It began at the time of the dung dung dung, new canisters were introduced, new techniques were introduced in agriculture. In addition, I would also like to hear whether the rapporteur can also admit that we cannot see that the drop that has already taken place long before we had the first aquatic environment plans has continued after we have had three aquatic environment plans. We cannot clearly demonstrate that the aquatic environment plans, which have cost billions of dollars, have led to improvements in the aquatic environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127180959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181001	After all, it has happened now that it is in fact felt to be able to detect and demonstrate that improvements have been made to the aquatic environment. But the questioner is right to say that for many years we could go and ask ourselves the question: does what we are doing work at all? The Enhedslisten's conclusion was that it was because it had done too little and that it therefore had no effect. Today we have to note that we were not quite right, because that is not an argument for quitting now, just before, in perhaps 1-2 years' time, we are able to make a targeted effort that hopefully works in a more effective way than what we have known for the last 20-30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181039	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181041	One of the things that I sometimes find incredibly tiresome when we are discussing in this Chamber is that we are giving each other motives which are actually not present. I understand from the rapporteur that we agree that targeted regulation, where we fertilise where we can fertilise and where we do not fertilise where there are problems in vulnerable areas, etc., is a very good way to go. If this is a very good way to go, and the research has documented that we are actually fertilising heavily in Denmark, then I just ask myself how long it is that we have to wait. I mean, the farmers waited under the bourgeois government. Now they are waiting under the current government. How long do we really have to wait before starting to take action that not only benefits the farmers' economy but also creates more jobs in Denmark and improves the general economy in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181132	I do not think it can be said that the research demonstrates that, in general, Denmark is underutilised. We note that there is less fertilizing than what would create the maximum production and thus the maximum economy, but we have no evidence that in general one can just fertilize more in Denmark without it having negative environmental consequences. I just want to say that. Then I would like to say that I understand the impatience. I can only say that we are actually now in a situation where we will probably be able to start what we all agree on in principle within a few years. I suspect that there may still be some specific disagreements left when we have to weigh up the considerations of income and the environment and nature, but that is fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181214	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur and speaker is Mr. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181225	Thank you. Agriculture is under pressure, there is no doubt about that. It is serious that we are constantly hearing about bankruptcies and the loss of jobs, both in agriculture and in the accompanying companies, and something needs to be done about that. In many ways we agree with the thinking behind the amendments proposed by the Liberal Alliance with the motion for a resolution. That is why we shall shortly be dealing with B 39, a motion for a resolution with 16 points to improve the conditions of agriculture for which we are co-sponsored. There are also points which relate specifically to both fertilisation, plant cover and so on. We agree that we also need to look at over-implementation. We need to look at framework conditions more generally, which is why we are also ready to engage in dialogue both with the Liberal Alliance and, as such, with all other parties who want to help find the right and necessary initiatives to ensure that we can also ensure good and positive development in agriculture in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181333	Thank you to the rapporteur for whom there were no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181350	Thank you. After all, in the Liberal Alliance, we have put forward the proposal to amend the fertilisation rules that we are discussing today, so that the future regulation of the use of fertilising and plant cover in agriculture is in line with the EU nitrates directive. The principle of equilibrium states that the needs of the crop for nourishment must be met. It is quite simple. The current regulation makes it quite clear, and it has been doing so for years, that Danish farmers cannot add as much nitrogen to the crops as is provided for in the nitrates directive and that Denmark is underutilised quite considerably. Fertilisation according to the principle of equilibrium is equivalent to fertilising the plants according to their biological needs. The current rules result in an annual loss of profits for farmers in the order of DKK 2,500. per hectares per hectare years, according to some calculations made by CBS, on the one hand, a long-term loss in terms of a deterioration in the value of the land and, therefore, the financing opportunities and creditworthiness of agriculture. In the Liberal Alliance, we also propose that the government be required to introduce new rules so that the new targeted regulation can be based on chemical nitrate measurements carried out in the aquatic environment. In other words, we need to regulate according to output rather than today, after input, and I understand from the rapporteurs from virtually every party that they agree with that. The proposal for amended rules for fertilization is therefore not an introduction of completely new principles, which we have fancifully caught up in. On the contrary, our proposal is based on an EU directive back in 1991. It is based on recommendations from the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen's 2013 report and on recommendations from the government's own food growth team. We have put forward the proposal on a bleak basis. The industry is hard pressed for many different reasons, and there is a need to find new ways to restore the economy and ensure that agriculture is able to produce more and even better quality. And no, it should not be at the expense of the environment. We know that in Denmark for a number of years we have been underutilizing and thus tormenting the earth. Twenty years of monitoring data from all over the country show that nitrate content and nitrate intake have generally decreased since 1980, i.e. several years before the first aquatic environment plan. This is good farming practice. Nevertheless, stricter requirements for nitrogen standards have continued to be laid down in the water plans of 1987, 1997 and 2003, respectively, presumably without effect and with enormous losses, resulting in both economic, quantitative and qualitative. The result of the years of under-fertilisation is the erosion of the soil, a lower yield and a profit that could be much higher if only Danish compatriots got conditions similar to those in the countries around us, Sweden and Northern Germany. Already in 2012, DCA, National Centre for Food and Agriculture at Aarhus University, stated in a note to the Ministry of Food that Danish bread producers have introduced increasing quantities of wheat. It is established that this is due to under-fertilisation. The soil and crops should therefore be fertilised according to the EU's principle of equilibrium, and Swedish experiments have shown that, as long as every kilo of nitrogen contributes an additional 10 kg of yield, the fertilisation does not increase leaching. In addition, good farming practice can even reduce leaching. The application of manure must be followed by a crop, fertilization must be carried out in several stages so that crops can use the fertiliser and plants must be stimulated from the start of growth, so that they have a large root net and become more robust against drought, heavy rain and diseases. By introducing the principle of equilibrium, we can rebuild the humus content of the soil, we can bind more CO2 We know that fertilization in accordance with the principle of equilibrium can increase farmers' yields quite considerably. Danish farmers are given the opportunity to fertilise at the same level as for example. The Swedes, according to estimates from CBS, will increase annually by over 6 billion. kr. for the total agricultural sector. In the Liberal Alliance, we also propose that future regulation should take place through measurements in the recipient. The following is shown in the 2013 report of the Nature and Agriculture Commission: • It should be the goal that the modified nitrogen regulation should be based as soon as possible on measured emissions of nutrients... •. The Danish Nature Agency's measuring stations must be moved to expiration, so we get clear data to assume. If emissions are too high, the polluter must, of course, be identified. Is it the farmer, is it urban waste water, industrial production or anything else that is the source? The polluter must then be held responsible. This is the way to regulate in industry, and it is the same way that agriculture should be regulated. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not think there is any reason to hesitate and talk about the rules having to be changed gradually over a number of years. We've waited long enough. We know what it takes and the farmers are ready. Fertilisation in accordance with the principle of equilibrium can be exactly the change needed to help skilled farmers through the current crisis, so that we do not have any strange subsidies that do not do anything about the basic framework conditions. We are therefore talking about common sense, we are talking about following EU rules on an equal footing with our neighbouring countries. This does not mean greater pressure on nature, but greater income for the farmer, more jobs throughout the country, greater export earnings, and it benefits everyone in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127181929	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182006	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182019	Thank you. Danish agriculture is, unfortunately, in many areas under pressure, with a total debt of over 360 billion. kr. and a market situation under pressure from the embargo from Russia. And several other things make it quite serious today, of course. I have described earlier today the various measures we have taken by the government to try to help in this difficult situation, so I will not repeat that here. What I want to say, on the other hand, is that, as a direct comment on the proposal we are discussing here, what is at least not and what is this road? Yes, what the bourgeois parties are proposing here is that we should produce as much as possible in the future as cheaply as possible, more or less. Who's gonna pay? Yes, the environment does, food safety does, and animal welfare does. What is directly stated in the motion for a resolution is that we need to review the legislation in Denmark from land to table. All legislation relating to food production in Denmark must be reviewed and, if we have more restrictive legislation in any place than the rest of the European Union, it must, as far as possible, end • as far as possible, we must follow the least restrictive EU approach to this. In other words, if any country has chosen to implement legislation that is less strict than that in Denmark, then it must be followed. It may sound very reasonable, but if you start looking at the real and direct consequences of this, you'll see quite quickly that it's serious. You can take the pesticide legislation. When, in my previous post as a Member of the European Parliament, I was involved in negotiating the legislation which today regulates the overall use of pesticides in Denmark and the authorisation of pesticides in Europe, Mr. Henrik Høegh a slightly different job, he worked for Agriculture & Food and was vice president there, as I recall. And he was a very clever lobbyist who tried to convince me that it was then too restrictive legislation that we made there by the European Union and that the fact that Denmark had to have the very far-reaching opportunities we had to take the lead and be more restrictive than the rest of the European Union was, moreover, a really bad idea. Now, sir. Henrik Høegh saw in the Folketing, and he did not succeed at that time in watering down legislation, and those who would ensure that countries could not take the lead failed to get it into EU legislation. That is why we in Denmark have taken the lead. We protect our groundwater from pesticides much more restrictively than we do in other countries, and that is, of course, because we want to drink our groundwater uncleaned in Denmark, which we do not do, as far as I am aware, elsewhere in Europe. There seems to be a single province somewhere in Slovenia, but it is not something that is widespread. Imagine if we in Denmark allowed pesticides that we have today banned to reduce the pollution of our groundwater. Imagine what consequences that would have. It is so precious a resource for Denmark. Take animal welfare, but there can be no real doubt about what that will mean, because we have actually quite directly from the Left Food Rapporteur, Erling Bonnesen, who, when we adopted the draft law on the loosening of lakes last year, said that it was overimplementation • I think he used the expression of the worst drawer • aimed at farmers. In other words, the fact that we are going a bit further than EU legislation, so that lakes have to go freely in 80%. of their lives and not standing firmly half their lives, were overimplementation. Now this proposal says that we have to put an end to over-implementation. There is probably a possibility that, in some cases, overimplementation will not be possible if it has something to do with food safety and the environment, but not animal welfare. Overimplementation must always be eradicated. So that cannot be interpreted in any other way than that precisely with this specific proposal, that legislation will be withdrawn. And these are just a few examples; of course I have many more of them. So it might also be nice if today's proposers would elaborate on why we really believe that, when we have an agriculture that makes a living from competing, not just on price, but on a whole range of other parameters: food safety, animal welfare, sustainability, innovation, quality, then we should move away from that strategy and instead go to produce as much as possible, compete with Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and others on the price instead of continuing to lie high in the value chain, as we are doing now. 40% of all the goods sold by Danish agriculture are disposed of at a price of 20%. higher than the average Union price. So, almost half of all the goods we export to the world market, we export at a price that is one fifth higher than the average price in the European Union. This means that we are very much competing on parameters other than the price. We do this because we are good at it, but of course we are, because we believe that this is about ethics and decency in relation to animals; it is about having an environment that we want to take care of. What you are proposing here is exactly the opposite, and it is one of the most far-reaching things I have seen in my time as an active politician. For the first many years when I was an EU politician, I spent a lot of time arguing that we should not be so afraid of the European Union in Denmark, because the European Union has no interest in forcing down our level of environmental protection or our level of animal protection, because it usually adopts minimum criteria for how well we should look after the environment or animals. And then you can go further in the individual countries. So don't worry, we can move on. What you are doing now is turning the discussion completely upside down, and you will force the Danish Parliament to adopt rules that are as little restrictive as possible. That the Left is suggesting this, that is, it has probably been a hot dream for you for many years, but you probably have never really had the chance. I am not surprised, however, that you are putting it forward. But that the Danish People's Party has gone with a party that you can really say a lot of shit about, but it can be said that you have sometimes spoken the animal's case; that sometimes you have actually cared a little bit about animal welfare. Now you come up with a 16-point plan that says, "From ground to table." And we surely agree that from land to table also concerns animal welfare legislation. There is no mention of implementing the least animal welfare in one word. That's amazing. I can't believe Conservatives are suggesting this when Connie Hedegaard was minister. It was fantastic sometimes you had to make a little effort to tell the difference between her and a Social Democrat. It was really beautiful. Today, perhaps, we have the most extensive change in the policy of the Conservative People's Party; after the new President has been appointed, the Left and agriculture have been completely laid down. It is sad that the course has changed. In any case, it is clear that this is not a proposal that we can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182836	There are three short comments to be made, and the first one is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182842	Thank you. We have an agricultural and food sector which is extremely, very much under pressure. Now I only have very short speaking time here in the first round, but I would like to say about all that the Minister has now been out of attack, that there is no record of what the Minister has in our proposal for all the attacks that are coming now. The Minister's various postulates are purely fictional misinterpretation; we can take that in the debate afterwards. I would like to ask the Minister to point out to those places in our proposal where it appears that this should harm animal welfare. We will not roll back animal welfare, it will not harm the environment, that is not the intention. Of course, we must exploit the potential for growth. But please, Minister, within the time available, just say in concrete terms where it is, because that is not true, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182932	So I have to ask a clear question: isn't L 88 on the loosening of lakes an overimplementation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182942	That's the answer? The Minister for Food Yes). That is the questioner's second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127182945	But I note that the Minister confirms that everything the Minister has just said in his first speech has now been taken off the table. Otherwise, I'll just have to get the confirmation. After all, it is implicitly accepted that everything the Minister has now stood and attacked us for has been removed, because the Minister did not give me the hint of an answer. In relation to the L 88, of course, we had the debate at that time, but I have said repeatedly in the course of the debate since we made our proposal and until now that we are not going to roll back animal welfare, and of course we stand by that. But, Minister, why don't you just deal with what I'm asking you? You can't document your claims, it's purely fictitious accusations you're making. It's a mockery of the profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183026	We don't have direct talk in terms of you
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183032	However, I would like to say to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, I'm in the process of documenting it. That's kind of what I'm doing. It's hard for me to document things in your proposal by anything other than reading out direct quotes. This isn't some farm paper where mr. Erling Bonnesen has said something halfway when he was on some stable visit. This is what sir. Erling Bonnesen, rapporteur, said from Parliament's platform. Now I am quoting from the negotiations on L 88: a clear over-implementation against Danish farmers. In paragraph 11, I do not think it is now that I have it up here in your proposal that all over-implementation from land to table should be abolished. That is, I would say to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, proof in a very specific area that either you will withdraw animal welfare legislation, which would be awful, or you are not proposing anything anyway. You're against overimplementation, just not when it comes to the examples that I'm just mentioning or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183144	The next short remark is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183149	This was an interesting speech that the Minister made in the first place. Let me just point out that the Minister is a minister and that the Minister has said that this proposal gives more animals in the stables. The minister is referred to on many media, it's Information, it's Politiken, it's fyens.dk, and I can mention many more, TV 2 News ran it as a loop for a whole day. And there were others. based on the fact that when the harmony requirement is changed, so that you go from 1.4 animal unit to 1.7 animal unit, it gives more animals in the stables. Can the Minister confirm that it does not provide any more animals in the stables? It is just because the Minister emphasizes that this proposal goes against animal welfare, but is that the proposal of the Minister? What the Minister has been out to say in several media, and what the Minister was also on TV to say, was that that particular proposal gave more animals in the stables. And if it is not the proposal that gives more animals in the stables, what is it for one of the proposals that gives more animals in the stables?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183249	Excuse me, that's fantastic. Your own chairman has put forward this proposal so that it would give more animals in the stables, so that the raw material base and the supply to the slaughterhouses would generally be larger. Well, at least we can find plenty of quotes on that. But okay, so let me turn to the question: if I misunderstood, this is not going to give more animals in the stables in Denmark? Doesn't it? Then, of course, I apologize very much. But if it is not going to mean any growth in the stables, why have you even suggested it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183324	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183325	It's almost gonna be a little embarrassing. I have been to the website of the Ministry of Food and Food, and I have just been to look at the rules of harmony, what they involve, and the rules of harmony are all about how to deal with the manure. In fact, this is why the Minister for Food was just saying that the pig gilt could be handled better and therefore more pigs could be produced. Did that mean more pigs in the stables? So the agreement of which the Minister is so proud meant more pigs in the stables? No, of course it didn't, but it means that you can produce more pigs on the same area, so the area where you carry the manure. I do not know whether this is going to affect my Question Time, so I shall explain to the Minister what working legislation is like or whether I will have a further question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183411	It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183412	Excuse me, didn't I use as a main argument that it was a good thing we did when we made the growth package, where we changed the harmony requirements, that it could mean up to 1.5 million more pigs in the stables? Yes, I do. And your President, the other signatories, both on the proposal and the chronicle that came in connection with this, have said that more animals will be produced. Is it good or bad for animal welfare? Well, that depends on how they're produced. What you then also say is that in all the areas where we go above the level of protection in the European Union, we must lower the level, unless in specific cases there are food safety reasons or environmental grounds, but not animal welfare grounds. Animal welfare is not mentioned in a single place as a possible exception to this: we need to have as little restrictive legislation as possible. And it is clear that you produce hundreds of thousands more pigs while rolling back animal welfare legislation has negative animal welfare consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183523	Before I pass on the floor to the next person with a brief comment, I would just like to remind you that we have an indictment in here, where we do not say you, yours and the like, and that there are also some agreements on speaking time in the way we run the sitting. The next question on a brief note is Mr. Henrik Høegh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183546	Thank you. There is, in fact, a long way to go; the Minister looks up at the ceiling and seems clearly irritated and a little hopeless to those who have now asked questions. It may be that we have to continue in this jargon, and then I have to say that during the time I have been to this castle, I have not experienced a more forgetful minister than the Minister for Food who is currently standing on the platform. If the Minister reads what is stated in paragraph 11 of this proposal, he will see that it says: "New legislative proposals must include an inventory of possible overimplementation. The principle must be followed or explained. It is an exact transcript of what we agreed in April 2014 • it is an exact transcript of it and then the minister gets a lot out of it in terms of how it will go beyond animal welfare. However, it is simply repeating what is contained in the growth agreement. I am just saying that to reassure the Minister a little. Now let me bring in another subject. The minister says we're harvesting quality products at home. Yes, we do, and fortunately for that, but a number of quality products are discarded because they lack nitrogen. That is why this proposal provides an opportunity for us to start with full fertilization over a number of years. Let me ask: does the Minister believe most in water analysis or computer programs when it comes to finding areas where there has to be special treatment or a special measure to complete?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183728	In other words, it is possible that I am the sitting food minister with the worst memory, but at least there is a former food minister with less memory present in this Chamber. Because if the author reads a few lines further down in the text or actually up in the text I have actually read the text a few times, so I can pretty well see that it says the least restrictive, i.e. that it is as far as possible the least restrictive level. Then there is an opportunity to deviate from it if it is about food safety or the environment, but not when it is animal welfare; it is not mentioned. In addition, Mr. Erling Bonnesen has previously been very helpful in defining what is overimplementation. Over-implementation is when we choose to go further than the legislation requires, compared with how long the lakes should go out in the stables; Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the platform said is overimplementation. When you say you're gonna go over there and sir... Erling Bonnesen says that this is overimplementation, so I wouldn't be a rational thinking person if I didn't think it means, of course, that you're going to roll it back.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183842	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183844	The principle is called follow or explain, which means that you either follow the interpretation in the countries around us, or you explain why you do not. These are exactly the same principles as what we agreed. Then I would like to repeat that what is most important to me here is that we get started with the new fertilization model and that we get started with targeted fertilization. We would like to take that over a few years, and so I would like to ask the Minister: how do you think the Minister will find the places where there are vulnerable and where there can be too high leaching? Is it using computer programs, or is it by holding a test tube underneath and measuring the leaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127183929	We can have this discussion again. Well, we've just had hours where we've been discussing this. However, it is clear that we are going to make a targeted environmental regulation, where we do not decide, based on what the questioner's gut feeling or Liberal Alliance's gut feeling, or what some theorists in future research are guessing we might be able to do in the future, how we should do it, but where we listen to expertise, and we are now developing a expertise which will be based on different kinds of measurements and different types of model calculations, just as you have already said you agreed. But I have to point out once again that it is simply not right to say that we have a common position on these matters. We have never said that with the least restrictive level as far as possible. But then it may be that we can clear up: Have you run from the fact that L 88 on the loosening of lakes is overimplementation? Or have you suddenly come up with a good idea or some good arguments as to why you want to support it now? Because you voted against it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184036	The next question is Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184041	Honestly, Minister, I'm a little disappointed. I understand that the Minister is very concerned about animal welfare. So am I. However, the proposal we are discussing here is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on a food and agriculture package, and there are 16 specific proposals in it. I understand that there may be a political intention to bring the discussion to a discussion on animal welfare, which may be important enough and which I think we should also take. I just do not understand why it should be put into the discussion we have today and turned into a controversy about what the Danish People's Party has said in the past or not about animal welfare. So is it the Minister's intention at all not to comment on the substance of the proposal put forward here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184136	I would say that perhaps I think it is one of the most far-reaching changes in Danish food policy for a long time that the Left has succeeded in getting the Danish People's Party to so much neglect animal welfare. That's why I'm putting a little energy into it. Then Mrs Mette Bock is right that it is also to undermine 25 years of Danish environmental legislation. Of course it is. I mentioned it in my speech as well. Something that has been a little overlooked is that it is not just about nitrogen. We will get a lot more nitrogen emitted if this was implemented, but unfortunately it is also about pesticides, and that is where we are overimplementing. So it might be interesting to ask the Liberal Alliance if, for example, you guys are... We also believe that the pesticide tax should be abolished. It is also over-implementing EU legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184227	The questioner with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184230	Thank you. I find it very, very interesting to hear the Minister say that we do not actually have valid measurements and that we do not have the knowledge that is needed, etc. I'm just asking myself what one water plan after another is based on if we don't have valid water measurements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184251	Well, they've built on measurements, and from them they've made more general rules. We have not, in the same way, had as detailed retention cards as the ones we are doing now, and they must do so, so that we can see both places where there is a possibility of granting permission to fertilise more and the other way round as detailed as we have had the ambition to be able to do. However, once I am attacked, not to mention the environment, and part of my speech was actually about the environment in relation to pesticides, it would be nice to hear whether the Liberal Alliance supports the roll-back of the over-implementation of pesticide legislation. At least we know. Is the pesticide tax going away?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184332	Next, on a brief note, Mr. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184337	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for the concerns about Conservative environmental policy. I can assure you that there is no reason for that. I am very pleased that we are able to have a green profile, also with a bit of realism in it. What I would like to ask is about Russia. The Minister mentions Russia and, after all, acknowledges that there is some kind of crisis in agriculture and fisheries. And he mentions Russia as a cause. Several other rapporteurs have done so during the evening. I would like to ask the Minister whether he recognizes that there are, in fact, other things that affect both agriculture and fisheries, which are quite serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184422	As I also said in my speech, there are a number of other things. There are, for example: the fact that we have a highly indebted profession, over 360 billion. kr. It is a debt that was indeed built up under the previous government, but despite that, I agree with the former Director of Agriculture & Food, Søren Gade, who said that this government has done considerably more for agriculture than the previous one. So it is clear that we are not in a position to do enough now to pull the industry out of the crisis completely. There's still a lot of trouble going on. That is why we are doing a great deal. We have given large millions of dollars to stables, we have created a new export strategy, probably the most ambitious, any government has ever had where we are struggling to open up alternative markets. So no one can accuse us of sitting on their hands. We are also doing the same thing: we want to lighten the burden that can be placed on environmental legislation by precisely, as the most ambitious ever in this country, perhaps anywhere, making targeted environmental regulation. But it is clear that it is not an environmental regulation that you just make by snapping your fingers. To the first part of the questioner, who is assured that the Conservatives still have a green profile, I have to say that it is not a green profile as far as possible to go for the least restrictive level of protection in Europe. It's not a green profile. That's what you have to do. That is what EU legislation says you must. It's not being ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184547	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184551	Now, of course, you can also be ambitious in other ways than just just the microphone howls over here with me, I don't know if it does it anywhere else President Klint: it's stopped now) • on these implementation issues that we are discussing here. We can certainly have an opportunity to return to another good time. Last week we discussed some suggestions in here, albeit in relation to the Ministry of the Environment, but among other things. on these three areas, and the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten mentioned that the draft law from the government was very pleased because organic farming needs to be treated better than conventional agriculture. This was confirmed by the draft law, and this was welcomed. Now I did not ask about all the excellence, because, of course, there are good proposals from the government sometimes, but I sense that some kind of reality check might be needed with regard to agriculture, with regard to fisheries. We could, for example. ask the Norway lobster fishermen on Læsø, and we could ask some of the farmers who have lost among other things. 45,000 ha of 3 areas just taken from them last week. I would like to ask one more question: does the Minister recognise that there are other things, other than just Russia, that affect the negative situation? And you don't have to repeat it with the debt of 362 billion. kr. Are there other things, such as some of the things the government sometimes introduces?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184710	Well, I think I replied quite in detail. I do not think I should do this for the third or fourth time, but yes, there are other things. What I have to say here, at least between the lines, but almost directly, is that we are being accused of giving too much priority to ecology. It has to be said that this is quite a change of course for the Conservative People's Party, a party which, as far as I know, has also been the banner of ecology at an earlier stage. But let me test it. Let me now test the questioner and say that now the Liberal Alliance gave a clear answer, because when I asked whether the pesticide tax, which is an over-implementation of EU legislation, was being nodded: do the Conservatives also believe that the pesticide tax should be abolished in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184801	Then there's no way to answer that right now. He can just nod or shake his head. ) But I have two more brief comments, and the first is Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184809	I think the Minister is right to say that this is a very interesting and almost historic proposal. I would just like to ask the Minister if he does not agree with me that in the time of the VK administration we were never actually exposed to the view that environmental and animal welfare legislation in Denmark should be as close as possible to the lowest level we knew about in our neighbouring countries. Never, never has it ever been the policy, and the Minister for Food must remember this from his contacts with changing governments. Well, I remember when, together with Connie Hedegaard, we fought to ensure the possibility of special protection for drinking water in Denmark, so this is quite unique.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127184855	Yeah, it's very unique. After all, I must not be able to guarantee that I may have missed a single time before when you have been so reactionary, but I really do not think so. What I remember is that changing ministers, but of course Connie Hedegaard in particular, have gone to Brussels and argued that Denmark should be a pioneer country. Fortunately, we also have a number of examples of the fact that we have taken the lead in legislation, which has not only benefited us because we have become more competitive, but which, in fact, has also later led to an increase in the level of protection in the European Union, both in terms of food safety, animal welfare and the environment. Now I have just mentioned some of the most obvious examples, also because I knew that when you start to walk the parties a little on the blade, they would say: well, on that point it may well be that that is not what we meant anyway. However, I have just mentioned the examples of obvious over-implementations where the parties themselves have said that there was over-implementation. When you put forward a proposal that says you want to get rid of over-implementations, and then I point out what they call over-implementation and what effects it will have, we can hardly be much clearer about demonstrating the differences between what the bourgeois parties want and what we want. Then it's just that in all silence I say it's of course a little polemical and political comment, but I'm saying it anyway, since we're writing history here today... that it's remarkable that the Left, which is one, I think I dare say, wounded party, has succeeded in pushing the Danish People's Party to give up animal welfare and pressure the Conservatives to give up the environment. It's good political craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185026	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185028	Wouldn't the Minister also agree that this may seem strange on a day when the Left has managed to make an agreement with the government, which is about rolling back environmental elements from what was called Green Growth? So, you will go back to the time before Green Growth and perhaps back to then, the former prime minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, could not see that there was something wrong in nature and the environment • the only area where he has almost voluntarily admitted that there was something to come for. And now the Left is rolling forward with further proposals not just to roll things back until before the new current government came to, but the far, farther back.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185109	Now I'm asked if I think it's weird. Well, I have stopped wondering about the timing of the Left's proposal, because it is, I have found out, very arbitrary. But what puzzles me is, of course, that the Left is so ugly and so direct that, unless it is a case of very specific cases, not if it is a matter of animal welfare, I can understand, but when it comes to food safety and the environment where one can really explain oneself, one simply cannot go further than EU legislation; one must be as little restrictive as possible. I.e. they say: go on a study trip to Poland, get good ideas, look at how they do, and if there are some places where they are less restrictive, we do it, and if it is not good enough, go to Romania or elsewhere. That is not necessarily what we want for Danish environmental legislation. I am not saying that they are breaking the law in those countries, but looking systematically for how little one can get away with looking after the environment is not very ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185216	The last person I have on the list of speakers for short remarks is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185222	Thank you. In his New Year's speech the Prime Minister launched a little so in a helping-up that the government would come up with new growth initiatives. When the Left, together with the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party, presented the plan that B 39 is implementing, it was of course also something that we discussed in my constituency, and there was the announcement from the party colleague of the Minister of Food that one should be deaf and blind not to see that there are challenges in the region in terms of the food industry. Therefore, it is quite interesting to know whether the Minister for Food is making proposals to the Minister for Finance in the context of the growth package negotiations, because it does not seem that the Minister is fully focused on the task, in relation to the challenges of ensuring growth and employment. That is the whole background to this motion for a resolution. So it would be nice if the Minister could already lift the veil and the Minister would be involved in whether there will be elements in a growth package that will benefit Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185331	I'm not going to explain the government's internal processes. I understand if you can get the impression that something can be unfocused, because as a minister I am sometimes forced to deal with, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who is on TV and says that you simply cannot brew beer with Danish grain • which was then verified by the excellent TV program Detector and turned out not to fit. It also turned out that the source used by the Left is misquoted. Well, it is clear that I would have preferred to be left out of this kind of discussion. That doesn't mean I don't have the focus myself. I have. Fortunately, I spend 99.9%. of my time working, basically in order to get agriculture out of the crisis, but, of course, bearing in mind that it should not be at the expense of the environment, that it should not be at the expense of animal welfare, that it should not be at the expense of food safety, as the proposals you are putting forward, unfortunately do. I have to say that a strategy in which we have to move down the value chain is probably not very long-term. Every other country, even those that are down in the value chain, has an ambition to join the value chain. I simply don't know any country other than Denmark either, fortunately not Denmark, but Denmark, if you had the power • which has an ambition to get down into the value chain.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185451	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185453	There wasn't much response to that. It seems as if the Minister is busy talking about everything else instead of addressing the challenges that are and where we come up with some solutions, something that can create growth and employment, something that can allow agriculture to increase the raw materials base, something that can secure jobs in our slaughterhouses, yes, proposals that the NNF backs up. I do not think the Minister for Food would argue that the NNF and the Left usually go hand in hand in all matters. And that is why I am just surprised that the proposals with such an easy attitude and as carefree as the Minister is are just being rejected, rather than the Minister being concerned that there are some significant challenges for Danish agriculture. It may well be that the Minister will not reveal the opening discussions in the government, according to what the rumors say, it is a fairly blank piece of paper that has been started with ^ but therefore a political indication of whether there are elements, useful; not necessarily which, but whether there are elements in a growth project addressing the current problems that Danish agriculture is facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185602	It is said that I did not give a clear answer to the question. The question was whether I would lift the veil, and for that the answer was that no, I will not. So that is a very clear answer. But what I would like to say, on the other hand, and which I understand there is such a certain wonder that I am interested in, is what the consequences of this would be if it were implemented. It's not just because I care a lot more about animal welfare than you. It's clear that I'm doing it. But it is also, in fact, because it would not be very good for the growth of agriculture to follow your path either. So, take another example: you have suggested that the implementation of the law on the keeping of dairy cattle should be delayed. If you do that, you will have a situation where a lot of people out there who have already invested in the new stables with resting and feeding places for the cattle will be worse off than those who have not. In addition, it actually turns out that a cow that has a resting place also produces more milk, and that is good for competitiveness. So, your strategy of just neglecting animal welfare legislation, neglecting environmental legislation and all that is not very smart. Even if you did not care about the environment and animal welfare, it would not even be very wise, because it is not a growth strategy for our industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185719	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for the moment. Before we continue, I would like to reiterate the appeal that the rules of the game that we have for speaking time should be observed. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, who has divided his speaking time by five minutes now and then five minutes as rapporteur for the authors of the motion, as I understand it. Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127185746	Thank you. Danish agriculture is in a very serious economic situation, under pressure not only as a result of the current Russian import restrictions and the current pressured world market prices, but also largely as a result of the generally worse Danish framework conditions for Danish farmers in comparison with other countries themselves close to Denmark. The situation is so serious that it calls for action. This is serious for agriculture and for farmers. We hear virtually every day about bankruptcies in the industry, and it is not just a few inefficient farms that have got into a mess. It is also efficient, well-managed agricultural holdings which account for a very large proportion of raw material production, which is in a mess and in danger in many places. This is now not only a problem for food companies, but many, many jobs are also in danger of being lost. The crisis is now so serious that it has become a social problem that we believe the government should deal much more with. We heard an answer that a little funding has been given to some investments and a little attention has been paid to export strategies. We do not think that is enough. After all, a framework must be created so that money can be made so that the debt can be serviced. But apparently the government doesn't want to do much more about that. We have long pointed out the poor framework conditions under which Danish agriculture suffers and that something needs to be done about the conditions of competition so that farmers can operate profitablely and earn money, interest and debt repayments. It is almost a scandal that we have come to that, that farmers should not give the crops in the fields the manure that the plants need. It gives low yields and too little protein in the grain, and it gives loss situations both in field and in barn. The Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party have together prepared and presented the food and agriculture package that we are discussing today. We are presenting a package of 16 initiatives to help ensure that Danish agriculture and the food sector are again growing, in balance with the environment, and we have divided that into these four areas. There is a need for increased raw materials base; a new targeted regulation is needed; competitiveness needs to be strengthened; and better access to finance is needed. And let me be perfectly clear: we are not going to roll back in relation to animal welfare; we are not going to harm the environment. The fact that a lot of efforts are being made on the government side, the red side, now to make fictional interpretations, must be attributed to such an ordinary polemical attempt at derailment. I find that very unfortunate. However, we must put an end to under-fertilisation without harming the environment and, in conjunction with it, implement targeted environmental regulation in practice with measurements, so that the right instruments can be used in the right places and so that plants can be fed into the manure they need on an optimal agricultural basis. There is a need to strengthen the framework conditions for agriculture and food businesses. That's very logical. If we are to get more good finished products out of the food companies, we need more raw materials. And there are a lot of jobs at stake. Then it is important to stress that implementation must, of course, take place without harming the environment, and we will of course not, as I have indicated, roll back in relation to animal welfare. It is important that we can continue to brand Danish food as quality foods with high food safety, low antibiotic content and low pesticide content, conditions that contribute to Danish food being among the world's best, and that there is a great variety of quality products, high value products, conventional goods, organic niche products, regional specialities, farm shop products, so that there is something for everyone. This will strengthen agriculture and food businesses and, at the same time, strengthen rural areas. It is obvious, as has also been briefly concluded in the debate, that when the Prime Minister himself announces that some more growth initiatives need to be looked at, then let us start with what we are really good at in Denmark. Let us do something for agriculture, strengthen the framework conditions. Then we do something good for food companies, and then we can produce some more good quality food and have them sold around the world, thereby also strengthening our own treasury and strengthening the opportunities to finance the welfare society. As you know, there is a rather large hole that needs to be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190220	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190223	I just need to be absolutely sure that I understood sir. Erling Bonnesen right. Does that mean, sir? Erling Bonnesen says that there will not be a single change in animal welfare legislation that weakens animal welfare legislation in relation to what has now been adopted. Erling Bonnesen guarantee it? And sir... Erling Bonnesen guarantees that the laws that have been adopted and in which the Left has voted against will be left to accept that this is the way it is? That's the first thing. The second question is: should I understand that too, sir? Erling Bonnesen says that if it is not to affect nature and the environment, will it be compensated for elsewhere in relation to the massive extra burden on nature and the environment contained in the proposals here? And when am I gonna know how to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190307	Let me be quite clear about animal welfare: we are not going to roll back in relation to animal welfare. I am not going to go into all the individual polemical comments that have been made, but as far as over-implementation is concerned, it is clear that we want to go through things. As has also emerged from the debate, it is follow or explain, and we will not roll back there. It is good that in some places we can ask questions, for example. whether we can do it in a more intelligent way. Now it has just been mentioned by the Minister in relation to the cattle herd law. It was then obvious to try to ask the question: Can it be done in a more intelligent way? But it is with a clear rear edge for us in the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party that we will not roll back on animal welfare. But it would be nice to have a look at whether it can be done in a more intelligent way, for example. As regards, if I may say so, the tenants, whether instead of setting it up in the way you do now, you can use something with chips or other things. Well, that's relevant stuff to try to ask about. But it's just a completely crystal clear message: we're not going to roll back in relation to animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190407	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190409	You will not be able to roll back, but can the rapporteur also say that even in cases where you have voted against the legislation, for example. In relation to the release of the lakes, has it been accepted that this is the law, and will it not be tried to change that afterwards? I am becoming more unsure about this with the dairy cows, because this is, of course, legislation that the VK government adopted together with the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, where the current government parties could not vote in favour because they thought it was too little ambitious. But there we have started to roll back in the Left's proposal. So can we even count on what you say in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190447	Well, with regard to the first question, sir. Per Clausen has, compared to, it was L 88, so let me get it off and say that we're not going to roll back there. We were clearly against it when it was dealt with. We do not think it should have been done, but it has been done and introduced and implemented in many places; investments are made after that. We were clearly against it, but we are saying that we will not roll back because it is a fact that it has been passed through. If we were to succeed, as we naturally hope, in obtaining a good and solid blue majority, then I have indicated that we are not going to roll back in relation to animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Orla Sea from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190530	What I am now saying is that I should like to speak on behalf of the Radical Left and the Socialists, because Ida Auken was unable to stay here. Denmark is an agricultural country and we must continue to be so. That is our clear position, and we are working hard to do so. The agricultural and food sector is an important part of the Danish economy, which we fully recognise. We also recognise that it is a sector that has tangible economic challenges. That is why, as legislators, we must aim to create legislation in a flexible way that makes it easy and easy to operate. At the same time, however, we also clearly believe that good conditions for the industry must go hand in hand with sustainability, quality, environment and animal welfare. And that is exactly what makes Danish food an export success all over the world. Against this background, I can immediately reveal that neither the Radicals nor the Socialists can support B 39. With the proposal, the proposers want to create more relaxed conditions for the industry. This must be done in order to ensure growth in the agricultural and food sectors. I would like to endorse the objective, but unfortunately, as far as the funds are concerned, this is not the way we should go. For it is not a viable way for Danish agriculture to lose out on the current rules for the use of pesticides, and it is not a sustainable way for Danish agriculture to reduce the time when pigs have to go loose. This will impair the welfare of the animals. On the contrary, Danish agriculture's export success is due to the fact that Danish food is a guarantee of quality, sustainability and animal welfare, and I believe we should actually stick to that. The proposers also propose a new and more targeted regulation of agriculture. We would like to help make the more targeted regulation that the Nature and Agriculture Commission has also proposed, but this must be done on the basis of thorough analysis and careful research results. Right now, we do not have a basis for safely letting go of the current rules and introducing a new way of regulating them. Here it is our clear position that we should only look at new and more targeted models of regulation when we know that they will not harm the environment and nature. We don't have that security today. There is every reason to help agriculture to the best possible extent in the fragile economic situation, such as: is due to the situation in Russia and the economically irresponsible policy pursued in the '00s in which part of agriculture has been caught. However, the bill should not be paid for by the environment and animal welfare, as will be the consequence of the proposal. So, to sum up, the motion for a resolution will mean that we are putting the environment and nature at risk by relaxing rules. The Social Democrats and the Radicals want to help ensure a good framework for the industry, but this must be done in a sustainable way, as the Nature and Agriculture Commission has pointed out, and that is why, as I said, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190908	There are three brief points to be made for the time being, and the first one is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127190914	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a sober approach to the motion for a resolution tabled by Parliament. The Minister could have learned a little from that. But thank you for that! Then I would like to ask whether the Social Democrat rapporteur is in the same position as the Minister. For when it says: If regulation or control significantly puts Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to companies in other EU countries, must there be adaptation to the follow-up or explanation principle, does the rapporteur also see that it is just a question of minimum implementation, of simply rolling everything back, and of having the lowest rules in Denmark in relation to what can be achieved in the EU? Does the rapporteur hear the same thing when I read out this quote that the Minister heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191004	I shall not be able to say whether my position on this is based on the quote that Mr. René Christensen read out, or whether it was built on that very meticulous obsession with how to do it in other countries, i.e. to focus on other countries and neighboring check, it has been called "something that suggests that you are going for a lower standard." I just have to say that I don't believe and I'm per. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). René Christensen is the way to go after the cheapest liver pie. I think this is the way to go for some high-quality foods, which even the Chinese will buy finished work from Danish food industries because they have faith in high quality in Danish agriculture and the Danish food industry. And, of course, we need to build on that together with the professions that are on the field. I think it's wise that Arla is as innovative as they are that they can sell shudders at sky-high prices. We eat that because it is nutritionally wise and good, because that is what medical science tells us, and there is great faith in it in the world. Therefore, we can afford to be somewhat more quality-conscious than they are in many other places, precisely because we can get a proper price home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191126	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191128	I could not agree more with the rapporteur. This is among other things. what we have to live on in Denmark, that is, make it better and get more for our products. What is just interesting is that what I read here is written with the Minister's pen. That is, in fact, what the agreement on the 'Growth Plan for Food' says, that is, the agreement of which the Minister is a part. It is agreed that if the regulation or control significantly puts Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to companies in other EU countries, adjustments must be made in accordance with the follow-up or explanation principle. This is exactly the same as our proposal, which is why I say that I have never seen a minister at such a low level from Parliament's platform. This is about the fact that the current government and, for that matter, it has been hiding behind EU legislation in the past. And every time you have stood in this Chamber, it has been said: well, it is the European Union that demands it. We come up with this proposal and a desire to make informed choices here in the Folketing. If you want something more about animal welfare and the environment, why do you dare not say so and then vote it through in Denmark and say that that is what you want and not hide under the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191235-2	I just have to say in all silence that if Mr. René Christensen has frustration in relation to an unfinished discussion with the Minister, so I think it is a discussion which the Minister and Mr. René Christensen needs to finish. Can I not say that I actually think this government has delivered. This applies both to the hard economics of making a growth agreement, and then it has also delivered on ensuring proper animal welfare. The fact that pigs are now allowed to be non-stop 80%. of the time, instead of it being as low as 50 per cent, I think it is a nasty improvement in animal welfare. And basically I think that if we are able to explain in the wider world that we have such a skillful profession and so clever politicians that we can create such a framework, then we are also able to sell at some good prices in a world that will demand quality food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191333	Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191336	Thank you. I hope that the rapporteur can give me a little more insight into the position of the Socialists than the Minister could, and so I would like to ask: the rapporteur rejects this proposal on the grounds that we simply lack knowledge. Can the rapporteur give a concrete example of what we need to work on these matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191400	I have, of course, tried to say in a couple of rounds in connection with the proposals we have been through here today that with targeted regulation this is such an abracadabra expression that you get everything to work out with. The truth is that the Nature and Agriculture Commission has pointed out this would be a very good principle and it has been a very good principle for industry. But we just have to say that we do not have sufficient knowledge of what is going on inside the stables, where some farmers are right, really skilled at torturing the very last values out of what you want to transport out of the barn as waste products, while others are not able to do so. Nor do we know enough about, nor do we know how the soil conditions are in relation to the influence of what we emit. In some places, our drinking water is protected by metre - thick clay layers, which may make it more robust than if you grow on pure sandy soil. We do not have that knowledge so that we can build on the sound basis on which the legislation on Danish agriculture and food production usually rests, and that is what makes it a short-circuit one wants to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191511	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191513	So I have to say that the rapporteur here confirms that we have now had three water plans which are not based on any kind of knowledge and which have just been made out of thin air. However, my question is that the rapporteur says that the government is aware of this and that the government wants to ensure that farmers have better conditions. The rapporteur then says that he does not understand the meticulous interest in how to do things in our neighbouring countries. I thought the rapporteur was a Social Democrat and interested in creating jobs, and I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur disagrees with the NNF when they have repeatedly criticised the fact that the framework conditions for Danish agriculture today cost jobs every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191556	May I first make a comment on the water plans. It has been a well-known case in all the years worked on water plans that they have built on average considerations in relation to the area combined with livestock. It's nothing new. That has been the basis on which it has been chosen to work, too, we should say, with the best knowledge available, and therefore, of course, we still have to work away to get better and better knowledge available. That, then, is what is set up as a desirescenarium. Then I just have to say that we in no way disagree with the NNF. We have an excellent dialogue with the NNF, and we would very much like to support all initiatives that can help create more jobs in Denmark. For example, it could be liberating if we didn't ride all our high-quality hams for a trip to northern Italy to turn into semi-parking and buy it back at astronomical kilos. This could be a potential that we ourselves reaped from in Denmark, and it would even create more jobs in Denmark. So we do not in any way disagree with the NNF or anyone who would like to, we must say higher up in the value chain in food production.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191710	The next question is Mr. Henrik Høegh, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191714	Thank you for an objective and sober speech by the rapporteur, who agrees with the objective and is prepared to debate how we can achieve it. We are not getting used to hearing a Social Democrat discussing this issue so so soberly in this resolution. Instead, we've heard loosening comparisons and a lot of undocumented claims about what should lie with intentions in this. So thank the rapporteur for that. Then the rapporteur says that we must deliver the best liver pie. That is true, because it is the best export. We would also like to deliver the best crops from the fields, i.e.. the best quality of malting barley, the best quality of bread wheat and some feed products... corn and grain, whatever it may be... so it is not necessary to import so much soya. Now it's basically 2 years ago, the Nature and Agriculture Commission came up with some models for how we can do it and how we can start to fertilize some crops so that it, like the best liver pie, becomes the best malt barley, the best breadwheat etc. Does the rapporteur not think that it has taken a little while for practical action to be taken? Could it not be an idea now over a 3-year period to get started and then keep an eye on whether there are any places it hurts, causes increased leaching, and then take action there by avoiding the increased leaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127191847	May I make a comment first: it is a bit awkward, as in North Jutland, that we should have such a discussion about the good cop and the bad cop. We're kind of on the same team. We fight for the same cause, and then maybe we use a little different words. I have not seen a locked minister; on the contrary, I have seen a minister who has been interested in producing results. So let's not go along with that discussion. I would very much have liked us to have gone further with the intentions of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. We just have to remember that what the Nature and Agriculture Commission said and came along was not finished models. These were some requests for some models to be developed so that we could go along with, we should say, safe steps towards food production and farming, which ensure a balance between the nature we really want to ensure and a food industry that is high-performance and high-producing. That's why it's not quite finished. One of the factors that I can assess where I have the opportunity to look at it is that there has been an obsession with using all the effort to discuss whether it was reasonable or unreasonable that some crop-free strips should be laid out in order to comply with these environmental regulations. We've spent an infinite amount of time on that. If we had constructively spent some more time and given some officials the opportunity to spend their time creating models for some wiser ways of doing things, I actually think we could have gone a lot further. So I guess we're gonna have to grab that, both teams.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192032	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192034	Well, I'm sorry I came to praise a Social Democrat. I'll think about that more carefully before I do it another time. I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur agree with Mr McMillan-Scott? Per Clausen, who said under the previous agenda item that we now expect to get started in 2016 and 2017 with targeted regulation and with full fertilization? That's kind of what this proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192100	So, I can safely say that where I have had the opportunity to take part in discussions, including in the closed social democratic spaces, about this, there has been no desire to delay this process. On the contrary, we want to promote it. But we just want safe ground under our feet so we don't go out and do anything with disabilities. Some of us who have had a little gray hair remember that you paid the price for higher chimneys, deeper holes and large discharges to places you thought could last for it. Then it turned out they couldn't, and then we clean up today. That is the situation we do not want to face. But we really want to move fast on this track. It is not an objective to delay it, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192143	I would like to make one more brief remark, and that is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192147	Thank you. This proposal by the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives is aimed at creating growth in the agricultural and food sector. Now we have been put in place, that we are not rolling anything back in the animal welfare field and that we will not harm the environment. The rapporteur's own Prime Minister has also said that we need some more growth initiatives on the agenda. However, once we have put these things in place, are there not more of the 16 points in our proposal that could well be included in such a growth agreement II or perhaps be included as one of the initiatives that the government now has to work on to boost growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192230	Well, I'm gonna have to rely on that, sir. Erling Bonnesen is well aware that if initiatives are to be undertaken, they are on the table of the Minister for Food, under the authority of the government, and they are the ones who must come up with the initiative. They have the right to serve in this area. I think it would be liberating if the debate in Things and in the food circle were such that we were concerned about producing results that are drawing in that direction. However, this presupposes a balance between the nature and the drinking water resources we want to protect and the production we want to achieve on our land and in our industry in this area. So, provided there is a balance in those things, we would very much like to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192319	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192323	Well, it says in our proposal that precisely these growth initiatives must be in balance with the environment. So we have that one in place, too. The rapporteur himself also says that we need to have some more results, because it is needed, and so we are about to be there. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether there are any of these proposals that the rapporteur could not see in such a growth agreement II or form part of some of the new initiatives right here around the corner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192352	Now it is, and Mr. Erling Bonnesen is very good that paper is grateful, so we also need to be sure that the contents of what is written there hold water. That is where we have our concern. In order to increase the number of animal units by 0.3 in an already very, very intensively driven Danish agriculture, where two thirds of the area is under plough, this will have some impact on the balance that I am trying to express is crucially important for us. That is why we have the hope of being able to make the pair machine fin if the second is now called the Luxembourg fin and withdraw employment in order to create products that are even higher up in the value chain. We have a strong reputation in the area of quality, but we could get even higher. On study trips we have seen someone produce under some conditions that Danish efficiency could easily exceed. So this is the exercise we want to get started. Socialists never refuse to discuss anything that can help promote Danish interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192507	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127192527	Thank you. It is a resolution with 16 proposals, and we in the Danish People's Party expected that we would have a debate on agriculture, that we should have a debate on the proposal. I would say that in my time in the Folketing I have never seen a minister discuss a motion for a resolution in the way the Minister for Food has done today. But that's the way it is. There may be new customs, and we live with them. What is involved is that there are 16 proposals. And what the Minister had to do with this was a simple proposal which the Minister did not quite understand. And that is fair enough, as it were, but now I need a little speaking time for it. There are, among other things: a proposal to increase the harmonisation requirement for pigs for fattening in Denmark from 1.4 to 1.7 animal units per year; acres. It doesn't mean more animals in the stables, it means more stables. That means more pigs for fattening in Denmark, yes, but it certainly does not mean poorer animal welfare, it actually means better animal welfare. For it will be new stables that will be built according to the new regulations with more space for loose lakes. So it actually means better animal welfare with the proposal that lies here, changing it from 1.4 to 1.7 animal units. Then I won't spend any more time on it. Then there is another proposal, proposal 5, on the regulation of housing facilities and the separation of field areas. At any rate, I had hoped that the Minister and the government would take a positive view of this. It is based on what former Minister for Food Mette Gjerskov had to do, namely the so-called Moon Gri project. You laughed a little bit because it came to be called the Moon Pig, but it was actually a pretty visionary project where you looked at: How can you handle ammonia evaporation? How can you handle manure? How can you handle having a high production of high quality pork? And as the Minister rightly said from up here, it is being sold out in the world for high prices. How can we increase that production without burdening the environment? But that means more pigs in closed stables, and that is basically just what is in point 5. We had hoped that the Minister could have seen something positive in it, but the Minister did not choose it. The Minister had the approach that all 16 proposals had gone wrong in the city. What then lies in it, and which has filled a great deal, is the fight against over-implementation. And I would like to say frankly that I did not at all imagine that this would be the proposal that should receive so much attention from the Minister, not at all, because the text has just been taken from the agreement made between the government and the blue bloc. The Minister writes that it is agreed that if the regulation or control significantly puts Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to companies in other EU countries, there must be an adaptation on the basis of the follow-up or explanation principle. And if that is what I hope the Minister has not put into it, because at least we have been deceived by the Danish People's Party, and I would say that we are somewhat nervous that all animal welfare proposals that have come over the last few years should be rolled back, i.e. if the Minister sees its own text in this way, it is not the agreement that the Danish People's Party has reached. We have then transferred to our resolution the text that the Minister has written on ministerial paper. And we have just done so because we actually want to have a fair debate about what we want more in Denmark. Why is it that we want more animal welfare? Why do we want something more about the environment? We have to explain this, and we must not cover ourselves up under the fact that this is something that the European Union has decided. How often have we experienced few parties left that are EU skeptical that every time you ask a question, the answer is that it cannot be discussed because it is something that the European Union has decided. It's kind of just what we want out of it. We would like to point out that when you want something about animal welfare, you also dare to make that decision in this Chamber and vote on it and say that it is because you want it. If you want to do something about the environment, you have to dare to say that it is because you want to do so and not put yourself behind the European Union's proposals. Then the Minister mentions that in the event of deviations this is what the proposal we have put forward must explain why it is implemented differently for reasons such as food safety or special nature or environmental conditions in Denmark. There the Minister has been so hung up on the fact that there is no mention of animal welfare. He could also have hung himself in that there is nothing about the working environment he could have hung himself in, that there is nothing about all sorts of things.But that's why we write for example. What is proposed in our proposal is, in fact, just a nuanced approach to how to implement proposals from the European Union, but the Minister could not see that, even though the Minister has written the same on the paper and in the agreement we have reached. And I just want to say that we have not reached an agreement that we read in the way the Minister reads it. We are so surprised that the Minister has reached an agreement if the Minister thinks that it means that we should roll back everything called animal welfare. That is not the agreement we have made. We look forward, of course, to the proposal being tabled in committee, and I also hope that there will be an opportunity to have a sensible and fair debate during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193052	There is just one brief comment. Sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193057	I have noticed that not only today, but also in previous debates, where it has been about implementing this growth agreement, that the memories of what has been agreed are sometimes slightly different. Perhaps this is also due to the rather special way in which the agreement was drawn up. But I'm just gonna ask sir. René Christensen, if he does not agree with me that the agreement does not actually state that Danish legislation is, as far as possible, set at the level of the least restrictive implementation in our neighbouring countries. In other words, it is a wording that has been included in the comments here, which we have not taken into account. Why has the text of the agreement not been content with it? That would have made a point, but now that you've changed it a little bit, everyone has to ask why.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193139	Then you can say "calls" than "calls," as stated in the agreement, that is what the Minister has signed. It says a lot better than that. After all, the Minister can sit down and read it again, for it is in the second line on page 8. It says: "Better than companies in other EU countries'. Then you can look up a little in the dictionary and sit and look at what caller means, and then you can look at it. There seems to be little difference between what is stated in two proposals, but there is a great difference between how to read it. And there we in the Danish People's Party simply become so nervous, because Per Clausen really refers. The Danish People's Party came very, very late into the negotiation process, which is why we are somewhat nervous. If the Minister really reads it that way, then the Minister has simply made an agreement which means that we will have less animal welfare in Denmark. I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party feels this way if that is what is in the agreement that the Minister presented to the rest of the opposition and it could help sign. We hope that this is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193238	Sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193239	I assume, of course, that the text contained in the motion for a resolution has been thoroughly discussed between the three parties, although it could give you the impression that these are all the ideas you could put together. But what does this mean by Danish legislation being as far as possible defined at the level of the least restrictive implementation in our neighbouring countries? It is a wording that has not been taken from the text of the agreement, and it is not, of course, a wording that weakens the requirement to get closer to the EU's minimum standards rather the opposite. So what is the reason why it was necessary to have this sharpening of the wording of the agreement with? I'm having a little trouble understanding that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193319	It is simply because we have seen time and again that there was such a discussion about whether or not there was over-implementation. We want to get away from that. We want to make some active choices. The parties of the Folketing must be ready to say: we want to improve animal welfare, which is why we are voting in favour of it. We want something about the environment, which is why we are voting in favour of it. It's not like that today. It is in this way today that we hide behind the EU proposals. Then you put it around, and it'll be a little more than what it was. Then we stand and have that discussion about whether it is overimplementation. Let us now, however, make an active choice as to which way we want to go with regard to animal welfare and the other things, and let us avoid putting it under the fact that it is something that comes from the European Union. Sir. Per Clausen, who also represents an EU-sceptic party, is, as I often see, experiencing that wall: we cannot talk about that, we cannot do anything about that, because it comes from the European Union. This is what the Danish People's Party would like to do with this text: get us away from hiding behind the European Union and instead have some political debates where we openly say why we are doing what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193419	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. We continue in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193445	Last month, agriculture & Food published a so-called Russia package, and a great deal of it can be found in the VKO proposal. Russia was previously part of the Soviet Union, and I also think in some ways that it could be called a Soviet package, because the name of the package from the top of agriculture gives associations to the planned economy. After all, we are talking about a business that receives billions in aid from the European Union and other billions as special advantages in the tax system that other industrial companies do not benefit from. It is a profession which pollutes much more than other professions, including non-taxed climate pollution, which is damaging 1.7 billion. Despite billions of grants and special advantages, the total debt has doubled since the start of the government takeover by the Left and the Conservatives in 2001 and is now over 350 billion. That is why we in the SF believe that there is nothing forward-looking in that proposal. Does VKO not know that environmental regulation and investment in biomaterials and high-quality products will create jobs for the future? The VKO's proposal will, overall, result in higher nitrogen pollution and greater pollution by phosphorus, thus creating a conflict with EU legislation, including the derogation for livestock units for cattle farming. Having said that, however, I would like to add to the rapporteur of the DF, who said up here that we should take responsibility for our own legislation, that SF would also like to do so. After all, there are a large number of EU legislations, which are minimum requirements, absolutely minimum requirements, and that is why the SF also knows that we are on, for example. The animal welfare area would like to go further. In some areas of the environment, we would like to go further. And because some sort of minimum standard has been set in the European Union, we say that we would actually like to go further. Denmark is a completely different agricultural country from many other countries, because two thirds of our land is under plough. It is also difficult to see how the proposal to produce more of the same industrial products will help decisively in the agricultural economy and prevent the closure of those farms which are already deeply indebted and inefficient. We see it as an election document and it is therefore in everyone's interest to have the consequences of the proposal clarified in detail and to have a good report on the proposal written, and the SF will do so actively in committee work. However, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193725	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193730	Thank you. I just want to know if SF wants to wind up Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193740	No, SF wants to save Danish agriculture. SF would like to have a farm where we will not see a massive consumption of antibiotics in the future, because piglets are taken too soon from the mother, from the sow. SF wants a farm where the Chinese will pay 30 DKK. for a litre of milk. SF would like to have such high-quality agriculture that it is not quantity but quality that is demanded on the market. Sometimes we talk in very pessimistic terms about Danish agriculture, but if we can maintain the standard, make it even better, then there is a growing market out there. There are a large number of countries where hundreds of millions of people enter a middle class who are going to be looking for these products. Danish agriculture is very different. There are some who are effective; there are some who are not. There are some who are making a mess; there are some who are making less of a mess. We want agriculture that is sustainable both economically and in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193840	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193843	Thank you. I would really like to know if SF has calculated how selling milk to China will make a living, and I am not sure that it will affect CO2 The fantasy that SF has about what Danish agriculture should live on is far-fetched enough. How do you imagine Danish farmers being able to make money? So, if the only bid one can make is that we should sell milk to China, then I would say that it is a utopia that I simply do not have the imagination to imagine that there are quite a few people who can believe anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127193927	But it is Mrs Mette Bock who lives in a utopia where she thinks this can continue. Agriculture is in debt for 350 billion. kr. There are several farms that are going to close in the future, not because we have a reasonable environmental legislation or because we take animal welfare into account, but because we have an agriculture where there is a large debt and there are some that simply will not survive. More of the same isn't what we have to live on. In what other industry would one say: Let us go down a much lower common denominator in order to survive? You will say: What are we good at? We must produce the decent food that we are also known for in the world, but at an even better quality level. Because we can't compete on price.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194017	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194020	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the rapporteur for saying that we will be constructive in the work of the committee. I will go to a point that we have not discussed at all. There are 16 points, and so it has all been about where you have been able to find hair in the soup or have been able to think of something yourself. That is paragraph 13, and what the proposal proposes is that we really want more ecology, among other things. Because the decision has been taken to work for 60%. of the food in the public kitchens must be organic. What we can see, unfortunately, is that very much of it is imported fruit and vegetables. One of the challenges, at least by fruit, is that we have some very restrictive rules in Denmark. Among other things: you cannot use potato flour when you are a Danish organic apple grower, etc. There are other such safe things that are banned in Denmark. There we come up with a proposal in which we say: should we not look at it? We don't want to use copper and everything else, but these completely harmless things. Wasn't it time to look at the fact that we'd rather go out to the day care center and have a Danish apple in school? We are actually one of the world's best at producing apples. We are just not very good at producing organic apples because we are not allowed to use these very safe means. Is the rapporteur from the SF not ready to look at such simple things that can enable us to increase Danish organic production and, for example, get some Danish products out in the Danish day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194135	I would very much like to see more Danish fruit and vegetables out in the daily institutions, especially organic. This can also be seen from the recent Finance Act we have made with the government, where ecology has actually been quite a priority in the green part of the Finance Act. There are also some other things I am trying to bring up in relation to ecology, namely that there is some kind of double regulation of organic farmers and fruit growers etc. So just as we tried to keep the clever regulation and clean up some of the rules with a wake-up plan for Food, it was a central part of the agreement on the food plan that came about a year ago and we will also look at it in relation to ecology. So that's not the way I'm going to deny it. I just think it is a very small chunk of an overall proposal that unfortunately cannot save it. However, in relation to this, we would like to look at how we can better promote ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194238	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194240	During the last period, Dansk Folkeparti had an excellent collaboration with SF, among others. on the motion for a resolution, in which we jointly found a majority outside the previous government, precisely by looking at what can be agreed on in the proposals that are coming. If you can agree on 20%, you can work on it. If you agree on 80%, you can work on it. The next question concerns paragraph 15, namely to look at our fishing industry. There has not been much talk of this today either. It is also a pressed profession, especially because, as we can see, boats are getting bigger and bigger. That is why we have proposed that when you have this opportunity for risk capital loans for agriculture and the fishing industry is just as much a food business as agriculture is, if it is not actually fair to say: should we not try to roll out these opportunities for setting up as a young farmer, so that it will also be possible to establish itself as a young fisherman? Was it something where the SF would like to say in the committee work: well, we would like to look at that positively and go deeper into it, and then we should see where it ends? I think that we have a system today for one industry, the food industry, but could it not include the fishing industry as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194341	I am glad that René Christensen himself mentions precisely this risk capital for agriculture, because this is another example of an area in which we are trying to help a sector in crisis. I do not want to stand up here and deny that it could spread to the fishing industry. One might then ask, Where would that stop? I guess there are other professions that need risk capital. However, the rapporteur has one point: in the fisheries sector, something that we see as being similar in agriculture, vessels are becoming larger and fewer and fewer people are being employed in the fisheries sector. That also means that you have to have relatively much capital to start up. And if I have to quickly add in relation to what we have been lawing in here recently, that maybe it should not only be the model that the son takes over the father's farm, that it may also be some people who come together to buy this farm and thus run a business there: that model might also be looked at in relation to the fishing industry. But we're willing to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194452	The next brief remark is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194456	Thank you. After all, we produce some of the world's best foods here in Denmark. That's why they can be sold around the world. We have a crisis now, but we also know, as the rapporteur himself said, that we agree that there will be more people on the planet and more and more people will be able to buy, and then we need to get more good finished products out of food companies. So when we see that it's difficult to produce raw materials, it's that we have the squeeze, and that's the one we're trying to address. So if we so disapprove of the very fluffy attack that the rapporteur himself had, which I think struck something at the side, does the rapporteur not agree that when we have some good goods on the shelves that there is a demand for out there, but it is difficult to get enough raw materials in, then we need to strengthen the framework conditions so that we can get some more raw materials and just get the boost so that we can sell more quality food around the world? So is there no good reason why we should have a look at the framework conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194545	Now Mr. Erling Bonnesen, that we have a crisis right here and now, and I interpret that as meaning that Mr. Erling Bonnesen thinks Russia's crisis. I simply do not agree with that. There are much more structural problems facing agriculture. I think it was back in 1995 that there was a debt of about 100 billion. kr. in agriculture. It had then grown to about 150 billion. kr. in 2001, and now it has reached 350 billion. kr. So the debt has only been extremely rising and there are all sorts of other structural problems too. Agriculture is in a structural crisis. It's not just Russia. As far as I know, it is 4-5 per cent that goes to Russia, and that should not be what overturned agriculture, even if it is serious enough in itself. But we'd like to look at these things, and that's also why we backed the agreement on the wake-up plan for Food, which among other things. This meant that the Ministry of the Environment had to be much faster in relation to permits and to process matters, that capital had to be made available, that new forms of ownership had to be created, etc. etc. So I think we are doing the right thing, a great deal, but we are also a country where two thirds of the country is under plow, and that is why we also need to have some regulation that some in this Chamber call over-implementation. We think that is what it is necessary to do, also to secure our water.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194717	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194722	Well, the debt of the 350 billion. kr. There is, of course, and I think there is one thing we agree on, namely that the state cannot go out and make some major debt relief scheme and remove it with a fingertips. So you have to create a framework conditions so that you can earn the money that you need to pay off, service that debt. We have also been told here earlier today that we are not going back on animal welfare, we are not going to harm the environment, because of course we have to be careful, so we also have clean water in our taps and so on. So do we not agree that we should have some sort of improvement in the framework conditions so that we ensure raw material production so that we can still get more finished products out of food companies? Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194802	Yes, we agree, but the problem with the word framework conditions is that it is such a concept that everyone uses; it is such a box that you can put what you want into. For some, the framework conditions are that you have to fertilize more generally, for some are that you have to have more targeted regulation, because some are framework conditions, that there must be additional capital or tax relief, or whatever it may be. So we all agree that we want an agriculture. It must also be agriculture that is sustainable, and for us in the SF it must be both economical and in other ways sustainable. So we agree on the objective • reasonably agreed, I think but not the means.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127194859	I am glad that it is not such a common view in the Danish economy that the way we are to ensure economic development and sustainable development in the future is by using more resources. I am glad that it is parked in this way, at least for the time being, somewhere around food and agricultural policy, where it is as if the use of resources, the use of resources to use more and more and produce more and more, and what is at the heart of the rest of society is that it is about how much value you can add to the products and then sell them for. But instead of the more fundamental issue, I would actually like to address some of the specific elements contained in the motion for a resolution, and I would like to do so because I have some doubts as to how literally we should take what is contained in the motion for a resolution. If you are not going to take much of it literally, then it may well be that we can end up making a story where we can agree on many things. I think it is nice to hear, for example, that the section dealing with action against over-implementation is not part of the campaign against over-implementation which the right has been running in recent months, which has been said in good time and prematurely that this is an expression of over-implementation; it must be rolled back so that we can have equal conditions of competition. No, when you hear René Christensen from the Danish People's Party, it is all about proudly saying that we have better animal welfare and better environmental protection than in the rest of the European Union, and we are pleased about that. That is what is basically meant. That is not exactly what has been written, because what has been written is that Danish legislation is, as far as possible, set at the level of the least restrictive implementation in our neighbouring countries. No average here, the least restrictive. I would just like to say that it sounds a little more like the offensive that the solution to agricultural problems was fewer environmental requirements, fewer animal welfare requirements, etc. But even the Left is a little on the way away from that position in this debate, so I look forward to seeing the Liberal Alliance come up, because then there may be somebody who stands firm that there is actually some regulation that needs to be settled. Otherwise, I would like to say that we can easily make a text about how we think it should always be made clear and, moreover, the aim is that there should of course be better environmental and animal welfare in Denmark than in the other EU countries. Surely we can easily make such a text if Mr. René Christensen can convince his co-sponsors that this is the way we should go. The second is the whole question of measuring programmes and phasing out reduced fertilization standards and an action plan for new and targeted regulation. If, as the opposition, the right, thought it was, that we should make an agreement here that we should now bind the government to implement some things quickly, and we there clearly and unequivocally stated that the aim was to ensure that we could fertilize more where it was justified and less where it was necessary and where it was sensible to take the land out of production, then we should do so, then we could do so, but we have to admit that when we read the text of this resolution, it is as if there were some places where we should fertilize less, that there is some land that has to be taken out of production, just as has disappeared. And I say that perhaps just the wordings made by the Nature and Agriculture Commission could be used. They have all been so enthusiastic, but they have not been good enough for this resolution. One gets the impression very clearly and unequivocally, I think, that this is about having to influence nature and the environment more than we do today. There are also other elements that speak in this direction. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. I think that most analyses of this lead to the conclusion that it causes an increase in environmental impact. When the government was involved in making an agreement with V and K and the rest of the right, it also became clear that this led to an increase in environmental impact. This is where you go in and say that you want to remove the peripheral requirements. You will also remove the 60 hectares of extra crops that we have just introduced to compensate a little for removing something else from Green Growth. Then there is not a word about how to ensure that this does not lead to an increase in environmental and natural stress. So I have to say that if you read what this motion for a resolution says, you get the impression that it is a resolution that is targeted and systematically aimed at reducing agricultural costs and, on the other hand, at increasing the burden on nature and the environment. That's what this is about. But when you hear the words that are being used, you can of course come into question, because nothing should happen in the field of animal welfare. Even the things that have been voted against will be accepted in the future and nature must not be harmed. It must be done in balance with nature. After all, it is quite a huge demand to make, because the agricultural production that we have today is not in balance with nature. It adversely affects nature. So you could read it as if it had to be tightened up and tightened up, but I must admit that when you come to the comments on the specific motion for a resolution, it smells a bit of something else. So my point is that, after all, this is the expression of a clear proposal from the right to dismantle environmental protection, to increase business opportunities for profits at the expense of nature, and then, of course, the whole answer to whether more production is going to earn more. After all, this presupposes a demand, because surely we should not go back to buying meat and storing it in large stores down in the European Union, although I have heard that it is sometimes part of today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195444	It has given rise to one brief remark, from Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195447	Thank you. It was actually just a comment on the latter. Because does the Enhedslisten not recognise that what we can see when we look at China, when we look at the East, is that there is then a very, very large middle class that will demand meat products, including these products that we have in the West? And they want a high quality, and we can actually deliver it in Denmark. Because we can deliver traceability. That's one of them. Therefore, they will give so high prices for our pork. Because if there are any challenges, we can quickly find out what a hook it has hung on the slaughterhouse and what a box the animal has stood in with the farmer, and you would like to pay something for that. Since there are now more people who would like to have a slightly higher standard of living and there will be such a demand for it here, do we not really have • if the rapporteur does not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195544	Now, I don't remember if it was Mr. Knox. René Christensen, who said that the thing about selling milk to the Chinese environmentally and climatewise may not be the most sensible thing to do, or perhaps it wasn't Mr. René Christensen, it must have been Mrs Mette Bock who pointed that out. So, I think we need to face up to the fact that, in the coming years, Russia, China and other countries will be able to produce a very, very large proportion of the food they sell there themselves, and that unless we are able to offer a quality that is unique and radically better and whose content in terms of animal welfare and the environment is radically better, we will not be able to play a role in that market. So there is a great need to lift up, and there it should not be by moving closer to the average in the European Union or even worse, as this motion for a resolution says, that we should go down and hit the lowest level in our neighbouring countries. I don't think that's the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195637	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195638	So the Danish People's Party agrees, and that is not the point when we look at this proposal. But there is the fact that, as we say, we want to make some active choices. But when we look at the production that we have in Europe today, we can also see that much of the protein feed that comes, that is, comes all the way from South America. There are areas being sprayed using airplanes. We have seen examples of people who have had fetuses who have had malformed genital organs, etc. etc. It is also part of the price of subjugation in, among other things. Denmark, because then you don't have these proteins for the feed for the form of production you have. Is it, sir? Per Clausen says it's just the price? You have to tell them that over in South America. And that is what the Minister is saying. For the Minister has helped to say that we must produce 1.5 million more pigs for fattening, but we will not be able to feed them. No, the South Americans must take care of that. We are simply saying that we agree with the Minister that we must also produce more pigs, but then we must take the responsibility of doing so in a responsible way, including in this case. It is also by being able to produce feed for them so that it is not for some other people to do so. Well, they live far away, but that's why you can have some responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195749	Well, I agree with Mr. Knox. René Christensen in that from environmental and other points of view it is completely indefensible with the way you produce food for the Danish pigs, i.e. in South America. I fully agree with that. I just dare not think at all about what the environmental consequences will be of that challenge having to be solved by producing feed, not just for the number of pigs we have today, but for even more pigs, by fertilising more in Denmark. Well, then, sir. René Christensen has enough pious wishes, but then environmental destruction, I think, is quite dramatic in nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195825	There was one more brief comment. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195828	Thank you. Now I do not have such great expectations that the Enhedslisten and the Left will agree on much in this area. But I'd like to try anyway and tell sir. Per Clausen, that we can see that we produce some of the world's best food. Many of them are high-quality products in advance, and there is demand for them, and so we also need to produce some more raw materials so that we can maintain and perhaps expand it. However, if we do not then agree that we have to in one way or another there may then be different ideological ways of doing so ■ to strengthen the possibilities of ensuring raw material production. Because that's what's going on at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195905	I must admit that I do not believe that the solution to Danish agricultural challenges is to produce more pigs. I do not think so. No, I believe that it is a question of ensuring that food production is environmentally sustainable and provides sound economic revenue and creates jobs in Denmark. And that challenge is not solved by producing more pigs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195929	Then it is the questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127195931	Well, we already produce a lot of high-quality food in Denmark, and we want to keep doing that for as long as there is a demand for them. What is the real alternative for Per Clausen when he starts saying change? I mean, it's kind of messed up in the mist, isn't it? It will end up with the challenge of 350 billion. kr. Suddenly it will be over on the table of the Minister of Finance, and that is not the way forward either. Because I think we are very much in agreement that this is not the way to go out and make a major state debt relief on it. So what is really the position on the 350 billion? kr., if they are not to be remunerated, earned home and squandered by instalments in the way they usually do, i.e. by earning some money in raw material production to interest and write off?
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200015	Perhaps I can get a little confused now that I am told that what is the problem with my plan is that it cannot detach farmers from the massive debt which is a consequence of their own actions and a policy which, among other things, is: the previous government has led. Then I just want to say that it is the policy that has led to this massive debt. And I think that a change in production, which means that we are putting more emphasis on quality, more on a high price than on quantity, is part of the solution. However, I agree that we still have a debt challenge that we are going to solve in one way or another in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200058	Thank you to the rapporteur. We continue in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200115	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has today tabled its own motion for a resolution, which is very specific, in relation to the Danish rules of fertilization. V, K and O chose not to take part in this proposal, but instead to put forward their own, which then includes 16 points, and of course I have full respect for that. If we maintain our own motion for a resolution, it is not, in fact, due to the fact that in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr V, Mr K and Mr O there are no good tactics and there are some of the things that we can endorse immediately. But there are too many soft and round formulations and declarations of intent. And I really think it was very well documented when the previous rapporteur, in his very long speech as rapporteur, was at one point wondering whether it might be possible to reach agreement on something in this with the VKO. When Enhedslisten gets there, it has to be said that there are some things that are not formulated precisely enough, and that is not so good. So we look forward from the Liberal Alliance to discussing in committee about this and the more we can get concrete and timed, the better. But we do not want to be bound by vague declarations of intent, which even Enhedslisten may be tempted to believe that they can be part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200238	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has marked too short a comment. The next speaker is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Daniel Rugholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200253	Thank you. Agriculture and fisheries are in crisis. Two of our most important professions are bleeding and it hits our entire society hard. It hits the billions of exports coming from the food cluster, it hits our tax revenues, it costs jobs. When one farmer after another has to turn the key and give up, it hits the whole society really hard. But it is as if the government does not take this matter very seriously, because the government makes one proposal after another which, on the contrary, exacerbates the situation of both agriculture and fisheries. Last week we discussed section 3 areas in this Chamber, where agriculture is suddenly hit by a total of 45,000 hectares that they own and grow, but now they are no longer allowed to grow and fertilise. The Ministry of the Environment expects agriculture to have an operating loss of up to 47 million. kr., and that the deterioration of the soil value will be in the region of 1.2 billion. kr. in this one legislative proposal alone. So, dear friends, it is not only Russia that is creating a crisis for agriculture. According to experts, some 1,000 and, at worst, up to 1,700-1,800 farmers over the next few years will be forced to throw the towel into the ring. In recent weeks we have also heard about Norway lobster fishing on Læsø, which is afraid to lose over a hundred jobs, up to 20%. of the total number of jobs on the island and that is a disaster. Something must be done, some realism must be introduced into the approach to nature, some of the over-implementation that is taking place, and that is why we are making these proposals. As has already been mentioned, there are 16 points in four main areas: an increased raw material base, a new and targeted regulation, increased competitiveness and better access to finance. Several of the rapporteurs have been around raw material bases and regulation, Mr. René Christensen also spoke a great deal about animal welfare, and I agree with the points that have been made both by the rapporteur from the Left and the Danish People's Party. So I would like to focus on a few of the other areas, which are also among these 16 points, because I think it would be a shame to forget them in today's debate. This is, for example, about aquaculture. We really want an ambitious growth plan so that exports and employment can increase, and we believe that it can, because there is huge potential in this area. We would also like to look at the rules of ecology, so that Danish fruit growers do not have less farming rules than their competitors in neighbouring countries. Organic farming has shown increasing export potential, which is why we would also like to strengthen the Fund for organic farming in order to promote innovation and to promote sales and export promotion efforts. In relation to the financing side, we also propose that some of the risk capital loans available in agriculture should be extended to the fishing industry. That would be a great advantage and a great help for many of the young fishermen who are currently getting proof but who do not have an economic opportunity to establish themselves and get started in the industry. A little in the same vein, we would also like to strengthen the financing possibilities of the fishing industry by allowing fishing to be involved in the Agricultural Finance Bank. We Conservatives want nature, but it must be a realistic approach that is in balance with the fact that we also have some professions that depend on us having the realistic approach to it. It is very important that initiatives are taken which, of course, promote nature but which do not destroy our agriculture and fisheries. That is why we are presenting these initiatives. In recent times, I have noted that more and more people in the government's own hinterland, social democratic mayors, social democratic MEPs and now also members of the Folketing, are beginning to distance themselves from some of the over-implementations made by the government, both in relation to agriculture and fisheries. And I am delighted if they vote naturally to influence the government's line.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200706	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no too brief remarks. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Erling Bonnesen, left for his last 5 minutes in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200725	Thank you. After all, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to thank you for the debate. Of course, I thought it was a pity that it was this way at first, we should say derailed; at least it was tried on a track where it did not belong. But I also think that we managed to get back on track and make it clear that we want an agriculture that is a good, safe commodity supplier to our food companies so that we can continue to produce and develop good high-quality products, niche products, and have a large and varied range of products that take into account all tastes and are also export-oriented and thus generate lots of jobs, exports and value for our society, also for our domestic market. Then it was also good to make it clear that we are not rolling backwards in terms of animal welfare, and that the proposal here will not harm the environment either. That is what things have to be arranged for, but that there is also a need, and it is, of course, the main thing and the core of it, to look at the framework conditions and conditions of competition for Danish agriculture, so that they again have the possibility of a profitable daily operation, which can serve as a service to the debt they have and also to make new investments. It is also thought-provoking when, for example, one thinks. contact some of the food companies and ask them what are some of the main concerns, so the answer is that they are very nervous about whether there will be enough raw materials in the future, and that is, of course, what we should be aiming for. And when we then also produce some of the world's best food and there is a hole in the money box, then it is obvious that you should try to put it back on the agenda and then create some growth initiatives that could also help address some of the challenges facing rural areas. So there's enough to do. However, I would like to thank you for the debate and we look forward to the committee's reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200923	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150127200938	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 28 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
