ParlaMint-DK_20151029100101	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 31 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Working Conditions. Minister for Education and Research (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 32 (Proposal for a Law on the Recognition of Certain Educational and Vocational Qualifications). Minister for Transport and Building (Hans Christian Schmidt): Bill no. L 33 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Air Transport. Minister for Culture (Bertel Haarder): Bill no. L 34 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, etc.). May 2014 on the return of cultural objects)). Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Karen Ellemann): Bill No. L 35 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Authorities of Greenland, Law on the entry into force for Greenland of the Law on the Effects of Marriage, Law on the Procedure for Greenland and the Criminal Code for Greenland. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 36 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). Minister for Business and Growth (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 38 (Proposal for a law amending the law on payment services and electronic money. Bill No. L 39 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Mediation and Complaints Institution for Responsible Business Conduct. Jonas Dahl (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 19 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of an independent priority institute in the Danish health service through the merger of KRIS, RADS, Institute of Rational Pharmacology, Amgros and parts of the Danish Health Service). Mette Abildgaard (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 20 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the national climate target in 2020). Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 5 (What can the Minister say about the lack of GPs, including the problems of getting GPs to open up practices in the outermost regions and socially disadvantaged areas of the country?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100304	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100323	The draft law that we are discussing here today must first of all ensure greater transparency in Danish administration of justice. The draft law ensures the basis for creating a digital court database that will make judgments publicly available. This increases insight into court decisions for citizens and other stakeholders, for example for us here in the Danish Parliament and lawyers and researchers. May I not make it clear that this has long been a wish of a broad section of the Danish Parliament's parties. It is therefore also positive that the initial steps were already taken in the spring to implement the plans for an open judicial database and that, in this context, we are now in a position to adopt the legal basis. In the Social Democratic Party we welcome this and we look forward to the creation of the database. The bill should also ensure more effective handling of civil proceedings. The proposal ensures better use of resources and a better service for the actors involved. From a socialist point of view, this is a proposal which is very difficult to oppose, and we note, moreover, that the legislative proposal takes particular account of those citizens who do not have access to IT and who therefore need alternative solutions or additional help. In these words, we in the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100506	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100523	Thank you. With a digital judgment database, you will be able to increase the opportunity for people to more easily follow the work that is going on. This is a very positive initiative, which we in the Danish People's Party would like to support. For the Danish People's Party, it is crucial that cases relating to digitalisation take into account the citizens' groups who may find it difficult to use digital solutions. That is why I welcome the fact that this particular case is being taken into account. It is wise to start the process in small bites. It makes sense to start by testing the system at the court in Horsens and at the Vestre Landsret in order to ensure quality so that the final result can be successfully rolled out to the whole country. It is important to use the experience gained at the outset in the court of Horsens and Vestre Landsret to increase the user-friendliness needed to ensure that those groups that may have difficulty with the digital are given a fair opportunity to participate, while taking into account the groups for which it is not possible to communicate digitally. We will, of course, continue to follow up on this, but I can recommend the proposal from the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100644	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100702	It is hardly surprising, therefore, that we in the Left can support the proposal. The proposal is a system that allows digital communication in civil cases. It is therefore only civil cases that are at issue here, and civil cases do not include shift cases, parole cases and registration cases, and there will then be a trial period, which my colleague from the Danish People's Party spoke about, for the time being at the court in Horsens and another court. This is something we look forward to with reasonable excitement, and it is something that can facilitate the proceedings before the courts, but also for the users of the court. There is one thing we need to pay close attention to in this context, and that is that it is now becoming more and more simple to present documents in court, including the submission of supporting documents. There has been a tendency in the Danish administration of justice to overshadow the courts with annexes in the course of legal proceedings. This is a debate which we must try to take another time, but at least it is something which can reach a worrying extent in terms of legal certainty and in which, at least, less well-off people are already struggling with it, while at the same time being overlaid with annexes. The overload of information will not be diminished by the fact that it will now be possible to press a button in future, and the court will then receive even more annexes. But the short of what is long in this respect is that, of course, we can support the proposal on this point. The second part of the proposal is that a judgment database should be set up. We can, of course, support that too. It has been completely random to what extent people have been able to obtain unprinted judgments for the purposes of legal proceedings. Everyone has been able to look up the Magazine of Law, Karnov, and where otherwise they could be found, but it has only been a few people able to sit with an unprinted judgment, whether it be a court judgment or a court judgment. It's been more or less random. We look forward to having a system in place so that everyone has equal means to play with here. This, too, will only be a simplification and a reduction in the cost of the procedure. The Left can, of course, fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100916	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029100922	What we are talking about has already been explained here from the platform. To take the best part, if you're gonna talk about it first, it's of course this trial database. As the rapporteur for the Socialist Group has also said, it has been a long time in the process. It has been a wish of all parties in the Folketing, I believe, to set up the trial database and, of course, it is on the basis of a fundamental consensus that transparency in the administration of justice is fundamental and indispensable in a democracy. And when we have the technology to increase transparency through digitalisation and a database, of course we have to make use of it, and it's just nice that it finally happens now. It can be said that in the first place only civil cases or civil cases and some individual criminal proceedings are involved. They may not be the ones to say that the press would rather snoop around, but it is certainly a start, and eventually there will be openness about everything. It is important that we also discuss the anonymisation, and I think there is reason why we should also discuss this so-called press tray in committee, which has been proposed by, among others. Danish Journalism and the Danish Media, which is about using the database to also give journalists access to some of the smaller, anonymised judgments, of course under the responsibility that they are once imposed on them in their work. I do not want to say that this is necessarily what we have to do, but I do think that we should have the discussion in committee, also in order to have as much openness as possible, while still treating the identity and anonymity of citizens properly. Having said that and celebrated, we come over to the part about the digitisation of the case portal. It is a natural next step, one can say, in the world in which we live, that the Danish courts too are digitised in their proceedings, and we can only support this on the part of Enhedslisten. It is very important that vulnerable citizens and citizens with physical or mental impairment also have the opportunity to keep up and not be excluded from the system. This means both that citizens must have an opportunity to be exempted from using the digital solution, but also that the digital solution itself must be so easily accessible that no more than one does not exclude in the goose-eyes as much as necessary. That is something that concerns us, and we can also see in the consultation answers that it is something that has absorbed others. That is why I think it is a good way of resolving this by means of the legislative proposal, partly by ensuring that citizens can be exempted on the basis of a specific assessment. So that there are no such specific objective criteria to be met, but that the courts themselves can assess when the citizens they are dealing with need to be exempted, and secondly by ensuring that both computers and scanners are physically available in the court and available guidance if the citizens are there and need to use the system and that they can also receive counselling by telephone. So we kind of think that the problems associated with digitalization have been what have been other examples of where we have risked rolling over groups in our society that have not been so easy with the new developments that have been resolved in a rather appropriate way with this bill. And it looks particularly good when you try to roll it out with some test schemes first. What is important, and we must then keep an eye on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs, is to ensure that the trial period that must be in a court of law and a court of law is used to ensure that we actually have the system looked for errors before we roll it out in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101331	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Steen Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101340	Thank you. Since the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, is prevented from being present in the Chamber today, I can instead inform the Folketing that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of this proposal to digitise the judicial process in civil matters. The Liberal Alliance sees this proposal as having a natural link with the other digitalisation strategy of the State, and we also note the broad support that the proposal has had during the consultation phase. From the point of view of the Liberal Alliance, it is quite reasonable to digitise the case-law of the courts and thus to follow the general development that we see throughout our society. The draft law's proposal to create a digital judgment database is an essential element of the proposal and a clear improvement in legal certainty, and we consider that it will increase accessibility, transparency and transparency. We therefore welcome the fact that this proposal will ensure the necessary legislative changes to set up such a database, but at the same time hope that the creation, including in the pilot project, will draw lessons from the many experiences that public opinion seems to have with public digitalisation solutions, so that we ensure that the proposed database is a success in this very important area. Like other parties, of course, we are concerned that digitalisation does not, on the one hand, strengthen legal certainty for certain groups, while, on the other hand, it effectively weakens legal certainty for others. That is why we are very aware of the problem of anonymisation in the publication of judgments. We are also aware of whether there are measures to ensure those citizens who do not have an immediate opportunity to use or benefit from digitalisation. It should therefore be possible, in our view, to transfer, in the course of the transition to digital mail from the public sector, the possible exemption arrangements that exist in other systems, in order to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy for those groups for whom this is applicable, including those who may have the task of assisting those groups. Consequently, an exemption from receiving digital mail from other public authorities should be allowed to be inherited from one public authority to another. We welcome the fact that the proposal takes into account those citizens who may have challenges or inability to serve public digital solutions. It is citizens with special needs, the elderly, the handicapped, demented, socially vulnerable or, for example, foreign citizens, resident foreigners or companies in Denmark. We look forward to the discussion in committee and, with these words, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance can endorse the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101633	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101642	Thank you. The aim of the bill here is to make the case law and the parties to civil proceedings more effective through digitalisation, thus making the process simpler and faster and cheaper. The alternative, of course, is positive. We want to make our legal system as flexible, user-friendly and transparent as possible. Here the bill is a step in the right direction. Precise ease of use is a key word in this context. Because it is essential that we do not cut off sections of the population from access to the courts • parts of the population who may not have the necessary digital skills or are otherwise prevented from using the new system. That is why we also welcome the fact that the draft law provides for opportunities for both guidance and exemption from the use of the case portal. The alternative places great emphasis on the fact that groups of, for example, elderly people who are unable to access the Internet, or others with physical or mental disabilities who cannot be expected to use the new system, either have the opportunity to have a guardian handle their case or to be completely exempt from digitisation. At the same time, it is important that the courts provide comprehensive and understandable guidance to the citizens who need it, including those groups that cannot be exempted from digitalisation. In addition to the case portal, digitisation is necessary to create what appears in another part of the bill, namely a judgment database. We believe that the database will create more openness and greater transparency in the decisions of the courts, which we also support in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no questioners. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101834	Thank you for that, President. In the Radical Left, too, we can support this bill. It is a very good and, I am just saying, modern initiative from here. I am also very pleased with the increased transparency resulting from obtaining the judgment database. I am glad that the bill, if I may say so, is implemented or set in motion bit by bit so that experience is gained before there is a full roll-out. I think we have learned that from a number of other projects, and it is really, really good to see that. However, I am also delighted as Enhedslisten's rapporteur for a full roll-out, so that the trial database will also be available in a number of other areas. Like the other rapporteurs, I welcome what ought to be and is now also a general practice, in other words, taking into account those citizens who do not have the digital opportunities. This roll-out bite-by-bite thing, I think, is gonna mean it's gonna make that work easier. So full support from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101944	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029101959	A digitalized judgment database is a good idea in the administration of justice. It is positive that access to the legal system will be easier and more manageable. We hope that this bill can be part of a process to create even greater transparency and transparency in public work in the administration of justice. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur pointed out, I also believe that we need to look at some of the proposals that have been made in committee, among other things. from the Danish Journalist Federation, to ensure as much openness and ease as possible, so that journalists can access the work, but of course with respect for citizens' data security. We are also sensitive to the phase-in period and ease of use. Exemption from the use of digitalisation is necessary as there are still groups for which it will pose major problems that will weaken their legal certainty. Having said that, the SF is very excited about this bill and looks forward to further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029102058	Thank you. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029102111	The Conservative People's Party can also support the proposal. We think it is a very good proposal with a digital processing system. There will be a digital trial database, so sentences are publicly available and they are free of charge. It's a big step forward. We also attach importance to ensuring that those who do not have IT competences are taken into account, so that this does not prevent anyone from doing anything in this context. With regard to what we feel has been taken into account in this proposal for that part of the population, we can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029102149	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029102202	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. In fact, I do not remember having had a legislative proposal during the time I was a minister, when everyone voted in favour or, at least at first reading, indicated that they were in favour, so I am very pleased about that. Society is becoming increasingly digital, and it is essential for the government to ensure that the courts follow this development, which benefits both the users of the courts and the courts themselves. Increased digitisation also allows for greater insight into the decisions of the courts and helps to strengthen the public's confidence in Danish courts. As has already been mentioned today, the draft law contains two main elements. Firstly, it is proposed to allow the judicial process in civil cases to be digitised and civil cases to be dealt with on a digital case portal on the web in the future. Secondly, it is proposed that it should be possible to create a digital judgment database in which judgments handed down by the courts can be made available free of charge for anyone to see. The proposal for the digitisation of the judicial process means that the vast majority of civil cases will be dealt with digitally on a case portal in the future. All documents sent to each other by the court and those involved in legal proceedings at this stage must, as a starting point, be communicated via this portal. In this way, there can be among other things. • a rapid exchange of case documents and a better overview of the case for all concerned, as well as a phasing-out of paper documents and letter mail. The vast majority of the court's users will see it as a better service and a more up-to-date system, which at the same time will make proceedings in the courts more effective. It is, of course, crucial that parties who either cannot or cannot be expected to be able to use the case portal should not be prevented from defending their interests in legal proceedings. It is, of course, the government and all of the parties of the Danish Parliament, I can hear from you. Some citizens have special needs... people with certain disabilities, mental disorders, homeless people or citizens with language difficulties... and there must therefore be assistance in the operation of the case portal. Similarly, consideration must be given to citizens who are unable to acquire IT competences. It is provided in the bill that the courts will in future provide help to those who cannot or have difficulty using the portal. The courts must therefore help and guide people to apply them. In this way, less IT-savvy citizens are becoming more digitally self-reliant. In addition, the draft law provides for the possibility for persons who, even with the help and guidance of the court, cannot use the case portal, to be exempted from applying it. The persons exempted will continue to be able to be served in a way other than the digital one and, as in the past, they will be able to communicate with the court when they are involved in a trial, per year. mail or by post; e-mail. It is proposed that the case portal should be used gradually. According to the observations of the bill, during a pilot period starting on 1 January 2016, only the use of the case portal will be required in the courts of Horsens and Vestre Landsret. The portal will then be put into service in the rest of the country within a few months. It is expected that by early 2017, all the courts in the country will be able to use the portal. The draft law takes account of the fact that technical challenges may arise which need to be solved. It is not entirely unknown in these processes and therefore there is a possibility to change the timing of the distribution of the case portal. In fact, we have already come into a situation where there is a need to change the timetable. Following the submission of the bill, the Court of Justice has thus informed the Ministry of Justice that, unfortunately, there have been technical developments which mean that the case portal will only be operational a little later than expected at the court of Horsens and Vestre Landsret. The second element of the draft law allows the Court of Justice to establish a digital judgment database with anonymised judgments. Its purpose is to provide both citizens and more professional users, such as: Parliament, lawyers, universities, journalists an easier access to convictions. In this way, more openness and greater insight into the Court's decisions will be created. This is therefore a positive step, which has been in demand for a long time and will strengthen legal certainty and the public in the administration of justice. In the first place, the judgment database will contain judgments in civil cases, as it is the cases that are first digitised, but in the longer term the intention is that the trial database should also generally include convictions in criminal proceedings when the criminal proceedings system of the courts is expected to be digitised. With those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for a good debate. I look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions raised by the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029102727	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029102743	The debate is open. Mrs. Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029102759	After all, this is a legislative proposal which we have already had the opportunity to discuss once here in the Danish Parliament, as the Minister for Justice had a slightly more red cap on. This is an important legislative proposal, and that is why we are pleased that the V government has chosen to resubmit it. In Denmark, you have to feel safe. That is why we Social Democrats are very concerned that our police have the necessary resources and tools to prevent terrorists from coming to Denmark and succeeding in their unsavory attacks and deeds. Because terrorists constantly develop new methods and move across borders, we must, of course, ensure that our police have the necessary skills and tools to be constantly two steps ahead. The terrorists must be stopped before they cause damage. That is the reason for the proposal we are discussing here in Parliament today, and that is why we Socialists support the proposal. The bill amends the Customs Act so that airlines are obliged to provide customs and tax authorities with information on passengers and crews of aircraft held by the companies. In addition, the Police Intelligence Act is amended so that customs and tax authorities must pass on information about passengers and crew of aircraft to PET if the service considers that the information may be relevant in the fight against terrorism, according to the offences of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code so that they can make use of it. When we give new powers to the police and PET, we must, of course, always weigh the security and protection of Danish citizens against the legal certainty aspect. In this context, let me make it clear that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that this proposal is within the framework of this balance, and let me also repeat that we in the Social Democratic Party are extremely concerned about the security of the Danes. That is why we can support the proposal here today, and that is why we are happy to enter into agreements that give the police and PET the best possible conditions for combating the evil that terrorism is expressing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103041	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103045	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. This is what can you say? So I would like to hear: is there a limit in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament as to how much monitoring should be put up with as an innocent citizen in a democratic society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103132	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103134	Each time we introduce a new tool that involves monitoring aspects, it is clear that we must weigh up the security, the security of the Danes against the legal certainty aspect, and therefore it must be up to a concrete assessment every time we decide that the police and PET must have new powers, and each time we have to base ourselves on the individual and concrete tool and the effect of it. That must be the starting point for whether you say yes or no. It certainly is for us Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103209	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103211	What I was asking was if there was a limit. Can we all get to a place where there's too much surveillance? What Mrs Trine Bramsen says is that it is always a concrete assessment. I also agree that much of that is exactly what Mrs Trine Bramsen says, namely the effect of it on the restriction of legal certainty. This tool has had PET for a long time, certainly illegally, but they did it anyway, which means that they have actually had it in practice. Then we can discuss why it has no consequences that the illegally obtained information. Does Mrs Trine Bramsen have any examples of what the effect has been of the fact that it has actually been used?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103254	Thank you. Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103257	I would say that we Social Democrats at least listen when police and intelligence not only in Denmark but also in other countries point out that this is an important tool in the fight against terrorists. Then there is the second part, and here Mrs Pernille Skippe asks me to put myself in a future machine and anticipate the technological development for all eternity and on the basis of it set a limit on how much one can monitor and how much one cannot monitor, and obviously I cannot. However, I think it is quite crucial that every time we introduce a new tool, we have a good and thorough discussion of it. But, of course, I cannot predict what technological developments are going to happen in the future, and therefore what tools we are going to give the police and PET.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103343	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103346	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. As the comments on the bill show, PET and SKAT have so far had a practice, and what we now see as the legal basis for the bill is that PET can actually obtain this information. One of the points I note in the remarks is that it is precisely said that it is not necessary to obtain a court order in order to obtain that information, and it is otherwise a fundamental principle of Danish law that a court order should be sought. So what is it that does not make it clear that the Social Democrats need to obtain a court order before they have access to this information?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103428	I believe that we all agree that, precisely when it comes to terrorists and the prevention of terrorism, which can do so much damage to our society, it is essential that the police and the PET have fast and effective tools that they can use. And it has been pointed out that this is an important tool in that fight. Then I must also say that it is the case that when we decide to put in place tools, we have supervision that controls the use we give to PET, the intelligence services, access to these tools. I therefore have a clear expectation that this information will not be misused.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103511	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103513	Thank you for your answer. What I am thinking here is that it is not just the individual who is suspected of, i.e. a suspected terrorist on whom information can be accessed. It's exactly all Danes and all passengers on board these planes that PET can monitor. And so there is no certainty that it is precisely a terrorist. And Mrs. Denmark, PET can monitor this way. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103545	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103547	That was exactly why we set up the Intelligence Supervisory Board. It was to check that the powers we give to our intelligence services are not abused to look into them in the cards. And that is why I have a very clear expectation that this tool will not be abused. I must also say that it would be incredible if PET had an interest in sitting and watching Mr. and Mrs. Denmark's charter trip to Mallorca. And that would then be some of what supervision would be able to detect and point out in the second place was inappropriate. And then it is clear that it will then be our duty here in the Folketing to strengthen those powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103629	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sten Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103632	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to know how the Socialists see the difference between the logging directive that we have seen in the area of mobile phones and this directive. Because when you use some digital solution, when you search for a product, you are really logged in searching for some things on the Internet. Here you buy a plane ticket, whereby your journey, the barn and the doer are recorded and stored. That does not necessarily mean that it is being used for something, as the rapporteur himself has said in relation to supervision, but it is being saved and it is being stored. How does the rapporteur see the difference between what we have discussed in the past, that is, the logging directive, which somewhere has been violently opposed to it, at least we have been and then this? Is it not just a mass gathering and mass monitoring of citizens without really concrete suspicion and justification?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103725	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103726	I want to point out the similarities. After all, both tools have been put in place to prevent terrorists from succeeding in their unsavory deeds. That was why the logging directive was introduced. That is why this tool is being introduced. Then there is a discussion about the use of it. Is it being used for something? That was the reason why the logging directive was sent back for reconsideration. However, the aim of both instruments is to prevent terrorists from succeeding in their quite unlikely untasteful deeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103804	Thank you. Sir. Steen Holm Iversen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103806	We do not disagree that we want to resort to all the means to combat terrorism. But the real question is how far we want to interfere with citizens' privacy and legal certainty in order to combat it. And, as I hear the rapporteur, the Social Democratic Party is prepared to go so far that it intends to log these data on our doings and the barn on flights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103828	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103830	I do not know the background to the questioner's conclusion, because I did not say anything about that. What I said was that the reason for sending the logging directive back for reconsideration, among other things. was an EU judgment and that was the application. That is also what I said very clearly in my speech, namely that what must be at the top is, of course, the effect of the tools we give to the police and to PET. However, it is quite understood that we Social Democrats are prepared to go very far in the fight against terrorism, very far. We will
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103905	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103910	There is always a dilemma between the tools you use and the consequences it has. I have to ask the rapporteur if it would have stopped the attack that we saw in Copenhagen in February, or the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris, if we had had these tools instead of being able to have the tool to obtain this information through a warrant or concrete suspicion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103940	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029103941	Of course, I have no basis for concluding this, because PET's methods of investigation are in PET, and I think it is very reasonable, in fact, that they do not share their intelligence with the public. But what is also clear is that it is one of the tools that has been pointed out as an effective tool in combating terrorism; as part of the package, it was a strong defence against terrorism. It is in this context that we are discussing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104013	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104015	I think I will continue a little on the trail that my colleague from the Liberal Alliance started, namely about the EU judgment of April last year, which said that it is clear that it is illegal to store personal data for no reason. And we could have that reason if the secret service specifically said: we have a concrete suspicion. But that is not the point of the proposal here. So what does Mrs Trine Bramsen think, in view of the fact that there is a clear ruling by the European Court of Justice that general personal data should not be stored in bulk for no reason?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104055	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104056	These are two different discussions. One is about the logging directive, and we would very much like to discuss this with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Let us finally take that discussion at a later stage. The second is, of course, information that is already being stored today. This is not new information. These are information that companies already have today, but that they are then shared with the intelligence services so that they can catch it if there are potential terrorists travelling across countries. And that is what we Social Democrats think is very sensible, so that they are shared with PET.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104132	Thank you. And then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104155	An intelligence service can only live up to its commitment to make the Danes safe if we constantly look at the conditions needed to effectively obtain relevant intelligence. The proposal we are now considering is a clear step in the right direction in order to ensure that PET can provide information that will ensure Denmark and the Danes better against threats from cynical terrorists, because of course we must give them the fight to the line. An important step in this fight is to ensure the possibility of spotting the danger before it becomes life-threatening. I will not hide the fact that a proposal for a PNR register is water on the Danish People's Party's Mill, because it is something we have wanted and looked forward to for a long time. It is our impression that a PNR will prove to be an important tool in the fight against terrorism and in the fight for Danes security, as it increases the ability of the intelligence service to access information that can indicate that a threat is on its way in our direction. We are therefore looking forward to implementing the proposal, which we are sure will benefit PET in its efforts to eliminate possible safety risks and thus to the benefit of the Danes' safety. I can therefore recommend the proposal on behalf of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104314	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Preben Bank Henriksen, Left. Here you go. You can sit at the rapporteur's table when you're getting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104334	Thank you. Much would have looked different if we had been standing here before 2001. We have had other things to speculate about to such an extent since terror made its awful mark on the whole world. As you know, the legislative proposal before us today is a re-examination of the proposal that we did not complete in the last session. The proposal allows PET to collect information already registered by the airlines on passengers and crew members, the so-called PNR data. The proposal will strengthen PET's ability to monitor whether persons associated with terrorist activities are on their way to or from Denmark. This will make PET's preventive and investigative action against terrorism more effective. It is, of course, a question that I can also hear from the questions that have already been asked about the balance of legal certainty with regard to monitoring, legal certainty with regard to terrorist investigations, and that is the case. We can easily have a society in which everything is based on one hundred percent legal certainty and where there is no monitoring at all, but we have therefore also apologies, I say it in 2015 a consequent risk. In this case, we are proposing an amendment to the Customs Code so that airlines are obliged to provide SKAT with information on passengers and crews on aircraft. SKAT shall transmit the information to PET if it considers that the information may have an impact on the performance of PET's tasks in the prevention and investigation of, inter alia: terrorism and espionage. This means that PET can access PNR data via SKAT on name, itinerary, destination, date, airline, fellow travelers, contact details, etc. The Left believes that the bill is a useful tool in the fight against terrorists crossing borders and planning activities. Furthermore, we have a PET supervision to check that the information will only be used for what we have mandated here in the Danish Parliament. The information is already being used by the Danish customs officials; they have access to it, and the Danish police also have access to a number of the information, and now PET also gets it with this proposal. Left can one hundred percent support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104607	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104611	I would like briefly to clarify now that I know that the rapporteur has a legal training behind him. What it means is that you have no legal basis for anything. The rapporteur can well start by confirming to me that if an authority does something that they are not entitled to do, it means that the authority is doing something that is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104644	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104645	I can say that the activities carried out by an authority must be authorised in one way or another. Mrs Pernille Skipper gave her interpretation of it and she has been a little more prepared for it than I have, so I will not go further than saying that the activities should of course be authorised by the authorities, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104704	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104706	It is good that we get it in place, because that is how we can read in this bill that for a number of years PET has been collecting sensitive information about its citizens via SKAT, and that is illegal. The rule is that authorities must do everything in the law that they can, and nothing else, and citizens must do everything that is not allowed. That's the rule. So what exactly does the Left, as the governing party, intend to do about the fact that PET has apparently been collecting illegal information about citizens for years, in addition, of course, to allow them to do so, can we see that that is what is happening now with the bill? Are there any plans to react to the fact that illegal activities have been taking place in connection with people's sensitive information for years?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104754	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104755	Now Mrs Pernille Skipper has to take her own words as she wishes, of course, but it is being asked what the Left is really going to do about this situation, and I can answer that very simply: the Left is actually going to make L 23, and that is exactly what we are dealing with today. So that is what we are doing about the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104815	Thank you, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104818	Now, of course, I know the rapporteur very well and know that the rapporteur has both insight into the legal world and the rules, but also has a liberal heart that beats for legal certainty. That is why I would like to ask you something, because I was aware that the rapporteur said that one can easily have a society with a hundred percent legal certainty and no supervision, and that, of course, it would also have consequences in the form of a lack of legal certainty. But you can also have the opposite society, and I remember that the rapporteur and I spoke a few years ago about a book that we both value very much, namely '1984'. You can have a society like that too. That is why I would actually like to ask the same question that Mrs Pernille Skip put to the Socialist rapporteur, namely whether there are limits to a surveillance society in terms of security on the one hand and security on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104912	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029104913	Yes, of course there is. But to stand and deduce where the limit specifically goes in every conceivable situation I am unfortunately unable to. Every time there are concrete proposals for monitoring, for example, as is the case here, we have to strike a balance. And that balance must, of course, be made in accordance with the situation and the time in which we live, and then we must assess what is needed here. The questioner is, of course, right to say that things can get out of hand. However, I would say that I would not have stood and made the same speech in 2000, which I made in 2015 I could not look forward in time then. Unfortunately, we have to accept some things that some people might think could go to the limit of their legal certainty. I do not think so. I think that most Danes will survive having their journey written up and listed, I would have said if the PET and the police, whom we want to work as effectively as possible, need this information.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105022	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a new rapporteur and there are no more questions here. Well, there was just one more question. All you have to do is pull in and it'll be a lot easier from up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105034	I'm sorry, President. Well, then I'd like to follow up, because we hear the argument that if you just go on some weekend trip to London, what can it hurt to be watched? But that argument can be used in all kinds of areas. You know, if you're not a terrorist, what could it hurt that you're being watched by cameras and that your e-mails and text messages are being watched? What can it hurt? Well, those of us who believe that you have the right to privacy, even if you are not a terrorist, naturally think that there should be limits to this. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: why should there not be a concrete reason for this proposal, a concrete suspicion, before this information can be provided?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105114	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105115	It would also be normal for us to deal with a proposal that allowed the courts to make a ruling. It would then have to relate to something specific, it is stated in Article 804 of the Code of Procedure. That is not the case here. Here we give a general opportunity to go in and try to put the puzzle together. Too often you take a piece in the puzzle, it looks quite innocent, but once the PET people begin to put together different people's travel patterns, it might give you a picture. That is also to say that the concrete piece that was taken up is rarely enough reason. It would hardly be enough to go to court and get a ruling on it either, but it does give the overall picture anyway. I therefore believe that we need such a general provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105200	Thank you. Then it's mr. Steen Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance, for a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105205	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. To follow up on the last question here, I would like to say that the rapporteur specifically mentions PET's ability to follow up and put the puzzle in place. But the real question is whether this proposal will enable us to do so. As we collect data on all of us, do we not run the risk of the people we really care about disappearing? What I, like other people who ask me, like fishing, is therefore: why is it that we see the need to collect a lot of data when PET knows very well who they have in their eyes? Like the proposal for a first reading last week on extending the powers of the FE, where is it that the rapporteur sees this need to tighten up legislation, including in relation to the legislation on terrorism that already exists?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105302	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105304	It is asked: why is this mass collection of data needed, etc.? Well, I'd like Special Branch to just say it's exactly number one. 487 or him in the seat that we need to get. But the problem is that this is not how investigations work. This is an investigation with so many unknowns that you hardly have any concrete suspicions. But because you can put together different things, travel patterns and other things, combine them with each other, you might get a picture of someone who might be under concrete suspicion. However, when the rapporteur asks why we are not simply taking and, if I may say so, asking for a ruling on the individual, it is precisely because the puzzle must be put together before we find out who is actually under suspicion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105414	Thank you. I would like to start where the rapporteur of the Left left off. For some of that, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen just stood and said, is very, very important, namely that when PET or the police have to obtain information about people, they usually have to pass the court to be allowed to them. And then there has to be a concrete reason why they want to be said like that in laymen snooping in people's things and things. With this bill, we're gonna tell PET, you don't have to do that anymore. You don't have to get past a court, you don't have to have a reason to collect the information. This may be done on the basis of what is called the general criterion of relevance in a fine word, but which in reality means PET's gut feeling. The reason is that many people have been up and talking about, and I would like to try to say a little about what is the problem with this bill. When you allow SKAT to obtain information for yourself, you are perverting the clear rules of the Code of Procedure on editions, that is to say, that you have to have a concrete, well-founded suspicion and a ruling in hand before you have to get information like this. And PET has been doing so for years without being able to do so, i.e. bypassing the rules of the Code of Procedure and obtaining information. In spite of criticism from among others... The Data Protection Agency again establishes this model instead of just a direct model, so it smells a bit like you don't really want to have a discussion about why you don't use the rules of the Code of Procedure instead. At the same time, the scope of this bill is unclear. There has simply also been an increase in the amount of information that SKAT can obtain and thus pass on. So it is not even really clear what the bill says yes to. There has also been an authorisation for the Minister of Taxation to set a time limit for deletion, which means that with this bill it is unclear how long the information must be stored. The aim of the bill, for example, is to obtain information on suspected Syrian warriors, but that is not the whole truth, which has also emerged. Because if you wanted to settle for information about suspects, yes, then you could use the rules of the Code of Procedure as they are today, which also means the possibility of first obtaining the information and then obtaining the approval if things are to go smoothly, and they have to do so sometimes. What is happening with this bill is that you have the opportunity to obtain information about ordinary, innocent citizens and their travel patterns, and frankly, Enhedslisten will not be able to do so, to put it bluntly. Surveillance is something you have to put up with if you are suspected of committing or planning crime; if PET has a terrorist or perhaps a potential terrorist in sight, yes, then surveillance is something you have to put up with. But if you are not suspected of anything, then you have your freedoms, and that also means that you have the right to move freely and communicate freely without supervision by the state. That is how it works in democracies, that is how it works in the social form that we are trying to defend against terrorism. The last thing I want to say about this bill is that it is remarkable that PET has actually had access to this information for years. They've just caught up with them illegally. And what has been done by both the present and the previous governments? You haven't told the underlying authority what the hell are you doing? You can't just walk and break the law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I think it is a strange reaction from a minister that one does not try to clean up when an authority has acted in violation of the law. At the same time, no concrete examples of where this legislation has then been used to prevent terrorism, which is what they say they want, have been presented in any way. So it is information that has been in the hands of PET for many years, and we cannot get any examples. But if the Minister is holding them, I think he should at least give some examples of what they have been used for. What have they prevented? I was also frightened when there were some lunatics, frankly, who attacked in Paris and on the synagogue and the Krudtunden here in Copenhagen. This is really creepy, especially when it is an attack on fundamental freedoms. What we need to remember is that it is only ourselves that can limit the framework of our democracy, and I am afraid that is happening again. I am afraid that this is part of a general opportunism, or perhaps at worst panic, which uses a very, very terrible and dangerous situation to restrict citizens' freedoms and to give more powers to intelligence services and police. It is not worthy of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105943	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029105948	Thank you. I just want to ask you something. When the rapporteur refers to the fact that such a general provision is not good and that instead we should go to court and get a ruling when there is a basis for it, has the rapporteur made any idea of the effectiveness of that system? I am thinking of the fact that it is not the case that you just run past Copenhagen Byret. No, you go down with a request for a hearing and related supporting documents to ask the judge to call a hearing, appoint a defender and then hopefully get an edit order that you can get it and that stuff delivered. How effective does the rapporteur really think the police investigation into these matters will be under those circumstances? Can it not give the rapporteur food for thought that it might be so slow that some terrorists can slip through, to put it bluntly?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110042	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110046	Yes, that is absolutely correct. And that is also why the Code of Procedure provides for the possibility of editing, that is to say, that information is obtained without a verdict, and then you are not allowed, but forgiveness followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110059	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110102	I thought that was the answer we were going to get, and I have to say that I am speechless. I fully understand that Enhedslisten's rapporteur has fine legal considerations here in the Danish Parliament. Imagine, though, that when dealing with a law designed to provide a general legal basis for PET to obtain this information, it says: 'Well, there is the possibility that they are just doing it for purpose and do not ask anyone'. Why don't you go out there and go to court afterwards? Yes, but the rapporteur knows just as well as I do that although the judge may overrule what has been obtained, it has been provided once and for all, if I may say doubtfully. However, this is a strange argument against this general law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110144	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110147	One might wonder why the rapporteur is joking if he had guessed what I would answer. Nevertheless, I would like to say that either Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen and argues that it is necessary to remove the possibility of coercive measures for purposes and obtain approval subsequently. Or maybe there's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen and argues that legal certainty is always irrelevant in terms of efficiency. It is, of course, the case that a balance has to be struck between those things, and that is why, when the purpose is otherwise lost, forgiveness can be granted rather than approval in court. And that means, of course, that when the police have got a good deal of rap on their hands by getting a no, hopefully they will correct into the future. So it is a general legal certainty that we must take into account here. If it were that easy, we could just introduce that legal certainty in this case too, I would say to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110236	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110239	Thank you. When I listen to the rapporteur, I would really like to ask whether the rapporteur has the experience that the police intelligence service has an interest in or, for that matter, the resources to monitor Åse and Vagn on charter holidays to Alanya. Could it not be that, apart from specific people, this is about the importance of monitoring some patterns, including suspicious travel patterns, and could therefore intervene? This also leads me to ask: Where in the Enhedslisten's mindset is national security?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110321	Of course, one can argue against such things here from a totally blind trust in police and intelligence services or other authorities. One can always say that PET has no interest in doing anything against Åse and Vagn. But that doesn't change the fact that Åse and Vagn, when they go to Alanya, are still being watched. Part of their right to privacy is precisely that they are allowed to go to Alanya without being monitored by the state and without the state having to examine what they are doing because they are not suspected of anything criminal. That is the whole principle of it. Secondly, it has to be said that the very fact that someone is going to use this to analyse travel patterns, combined with also logging our phone data and text messages and our cars with license plate scanners and much, much more, means that we get what is called a mass surveillance society. I would say that the security of the nation is very close to me and democracy is very close to me. That is why I am opposed to it turning into a mass surveillance society, which is why I also care about our freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110443	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110447	I think we agree with the last of the rapporteur's answers. We can then have different views on where the limit is and what to do. But I have to hold on to whether it doesn't matter that police intelligence has an opportunity to look at travel patterns? It is, of course, part of finding out what some suspicious travel patterns are like and then being able to intervene. Then there is the fact that we are all being registered, and the next question could almost be: will the rapporteur make a proposal that airlines should not be allowed to collect information on who is travelling on their aircraft either, because that information could suddenly be leaked?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110526	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110528	First of all, I should like to comment on the latter. I think it is really good that we have a personal data law, which, among other things, is a good thing. states that companies must not collect personal data for too long at a time and without having a purpose. That law exists, and of course I intend to hold on to it. Because it matters that you have the right to your own data and privacy. Then there is the question of whether it doesn't matter that PET can analyze travel patterns. Firstly, I would like to say that we must be careful not to place too much trust in all this big data and believe that we can foresee who is a criminal and who is not a criminal, from what they eat on board the plane and what airports they interstate. Having said that, I would say that the most effective society would, of course, be one where we could keep an eye on where all individuals were. But I don't want to live in that society. I don't think so either, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110617	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Steen Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029110635	We in the Liberal Alliance are, of course, very concerned about this, and the debate in this Chamber has also been marked by the fact that the necessary measures are being taken to ensure that our societies and our citizens are protected against terrorist attacks. We are also, and we should not be mistaken, dedicated in the fight against all forms of radicalism, regardless of direction, not least the fight against the very present and current Islamic terrorism. Terrorism is the ultimate evil, it threatens our security and our security, and we must fight it by all means. And that is really what this debate and this legislative proposal are all about. The current situation requires that we go against terrorism with all the tools that are needed. There can be no doubt about that, and we would like to see a very rigid and consistent monitoring of those people who, through behaviour, utterances or actions, can be linked or specifically suspected of committing crimes against the state, the Danes or their security. Our legal rapporteur has also made this very clear during the previous reading of this draft law in the last parliamentary assembly. What should not, however, surprise us here when this proposal is retabled is that we in the Liberal Alliance cannot agree to monitoring at the expense of our fundamental freedoms, our democratic rights, our institutions and the rule of law. We do not want to mass monitor the Danish population, and that is exactly what this proposal is about. The proposal here is about the creation of a so-called PNR register, where it will be possible to record information about the Danes without prior justification or specific suspicion for the sole reason that they are making a flight. The proposal is therefore a cause for concern, even a great deal of concern. The bill gives SKAT the opportunity to obtain passenger information about all Danes travelling by air and subsequently transmit this information to the Police Intelligence Service without a court order. So, as I said, there is no need to be a concrete suspicion or a real perception that these people have evil intentions. It is obvious to some in this Chamber, as has also been pointed out, that we must accept these restrictions on our freedoms and that this is a necessary price for guaranteeing our security and combating terrorism. This is a fundamental dilemma and we fully acknowledge this dilemma in the Liberal Alliance. However, the proportionality of this bill is not such as to enable us to defend such a significant violation of our freedoms as is at issue. In our view, on the other hand, this is an example of legislation that should give us the feeling that we are becoming safer and safer, but it will ultimately be a false security. This will have little effect and will in fact be a reduction in our freedoms. We are in favour of providing police and intelligence services with the best possible tools and means to safeguard our constitutional rights. And we really think that with all the legislative proposals that have been dealt with here in the Chamber, these are gradually being laid down and in place, which is why we cannot support the current proposal in its current form. With these words, I should like to inform you that, as I said, the Liberal Alliance cannot agree to the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111027	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to say that it is, of course, permissible to take a small photo for the first time a rapporteur is on the platform, but this will be done a little discreetly. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111045	Thank you for the floor. I'll try not to take pictures from up here. This bill states that the PET Act and the Customs Act will give SKAT a separate legal basis for receiving and transmitting information on air passengers and crews held by the airlines to PET, even in situations where SKAT has no independent interest in obtaining information for customs control purposes. When you then dive into what it is for some information, you see that it is a very long list and I will allow myself to read it. PET may have access to information such as name, gender, date of birth, nationality, passport number, country of issue, expiry date of the passport, booking and reservation number, booking and date of issue, travel agent, travel date, itinerary, including previous and subsequent flights, also called connecting flights, previous reservations, any information about fellow travellers, contact details, details of payment, seat number, baggage, credit card, etc. It is not explained in the comments what it etc. I'm gonna cover it up. In the alternative, we are fundamentally opposed to the growing surveillance trend that, as we see it, has been carried by fear of terror. We think that the inviolability of our personal freedoms, which is very important, is forgotten. In the alternative, we are of the opinion that we should not be intimidated and thus undermine the fundamental values that we have in Danish society. And it is legal certainty for the individual and the fundamental principle that a court order is needed if you suspect that a person is committing something criminal. That is a difficult balance, and the debate up here on the platform has shown that: the fact that we have to be allowed to be watched by PET and the police is a difficult balance. However, the alternative is that the attack by terrorists on our democracy should not be made on our own democracy. And that's what the alternative is worried about will happen with this proposal, i.e. that we really go further along that path and undermine our democracy. Monitoring is a necessary tool. But we can only allow this in cases where there is a concrete suspicion of planning crime. On the other hand, monitoring of ordinary citizens seems to us to exceed our fundamental freedoms as citizens of Danish democracy, and therefore the alternative is not in the mind to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111352	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111357	Thank you. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that the long list from which the name and passport number were read is in fact just the same as the information that an airline has about the traveller and that that is what you are getting access to. So there is nothing to expand. You get access to the information an airline already has. I would also like to know whether the rapporteur does not understand that there may be an interest in knowing some travel patterns that can be put together, also in order to be able to examine the types involved here. I would also like to know whether the rapporteur really believes that PET has an interest in or resources to monitor ordinary Danes. It is also the PET law that comes under it. So what exactly is it that the rapporteur is particularly afraid of there?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111449	Thank you. The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111452	The first was about this list. I know this is the list that exists with the airlines. But there is a difference between the fact that it is there and the fact that it must be handed over to PET, and that is what we are discussing. Then there is the matter of travel patterns, and again it is with whom we should allow our democracy to be destroyed. Is it ourselves with such a law home here, or are it terrorists? This is, of course, a discussion, and we therefore believe that we do not think it should be allowed to monitor travel patterns indiscriminately in order to ensure that there is no illegal activity. We still think there should be a concrete suspicion. Then I think I missed a third question. Unfortunately, I forgot what was.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111538	We're gonna get that quick.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111541	It was whether PET had the resources and interest to follow it. Sounds like that's what they're interested in. That is not the case. Am I on my second question now? Okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111555	Well, I don't suspect Special Branch for anything, but that's not what we're discussing here. We're discussing whether PET should have those powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111604	Then that is the second question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111614	Thank you for your answer. Then I would like to follow up on the rapporteur's statement that PET should not be provided with the information already available to the airlines. After all, they only get that to the extent that they specifically ask for it. It's not like you do it if there's no suspicion. It's about a suspicion of a person, then you investigate some travel patterns and you go in and look at it. Does the rapporteur not understand at all that this is also about defending the security of the nation, that it is also the one who is at stake here to some extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111644	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111647	Thank you for the question. The way I see this bill, it's not like it's about concrete suspicions. You will just put into the system what it is for some airports that are particularly interesting and what it is for some special travel patterns that are interesting, so you keep logging it and can see if it bons out with some interesting people. That means we'll all be watched when we take a plane trip.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111710	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111714	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it is right for airlines to have more and more information than PET does.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111724	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111727	Now that is not what we are discussing here today. What is under discussion here today is whether that information can be transferred to PET without PET having a separate and concrete suspicion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111735	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111738	Is there not something that puzzles the rapporteur about the relationship itself? In the rapporteur's view, should it be the case that an airline employee should have access to more important and more confidential information than PET should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111751	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111754	Are we now going to discuss something else, in other words some kind of bill on whether we should ensure that airlines do not have access to the information they record when buying a ticket from an airline? I must honestly admit that I have not taken into account the information available to an airline. What I would like to discuss is what is in this draft law, that is to say what information we allow PET to receive and which they continuously monitor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111819	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111827	Thank you. I would like to follow up the questions put by the two previous questions and ask: now that the rapporteur has problematizing that PET can have access to information already collected from airlines, does the rapporteur therefore have more confidence in these airlines than the rapporteur has in the police intelligence service?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111846	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111849	Well, I'm not up here discussing airline access to personal data. I haven't really gotten to what the airlines can do. What I would like to discuss here is what we are allowing PET to monitor. And what's in this proposal is that PET gets access to monitor continuously, they have access to put different logs into this system to find out who's traveling when and how they're doing it. PET can also do so without specific people being involved, and that is where I think it is simply to compromise on the legal certainty that we would like to have in a democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111927	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111931	Thank you. I did not really feel that I was given an answer to my question, so now I am trying to put it very briefly: does the rapporteur have more confidence in airlines than the rapporteur has in the police intelligence service?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111940	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111943	I would like to say again that I cannot answer whether I trust the airlines, because I do not have sufficient knowledge as to how they store their information. What I find problematic here is, in fact, the transfer to PET is completely uncritical.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029111954	Thank you. There are no more questions, and then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112005	Thank you for the floor, President. It's gonna be pretty short from here. This debate has taken place once before, but it is of course always appropriate to take it back. We Radicals support this bill. It is not as such a new break in Danish intelligence work. This has been an opportunity since 2006 and, as has also been discussed back and forth in the Chamber today, doubts were raised about the legal basis. That is why it is only with the legislative proposal which was dealt with last December, L 95, and now with this legislative proposal, that the desire for a proper legal basis for this practice is met. On the part of the Radical Left, we are also very concerned about that balance, and I agree with the previous rapporteur that this is a difficult balance; we have spent a great deal of time and effort on that. It is, after all, a number of information which is already being used by Danish customs officials who have access to it, and so is the Danish police. Now PET will also have access to the information so that they can use it in the fight against potential terrorist threats. Of course we in the Radical Left will follow this area very, very closely. We must always be extremely vigilant when we ask private companies to provide information about citizens. So we are going to follow it closely forwards. Of course, we will also focus on the proposal that the European Parliament is still considering. For us in the Radical Left, it is very important that we are in line with the EU line in this area, so that we do not in any way implement beyond what will be the line there. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112207	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112212	Now Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen just gave me an idea of a question, namely about the work being done in the European Union on a European PNR model. What does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen say to the strong criticism in the European Parliament of the proposals made by the Commission which go so far as to say that there is a contradiction with the judgment made last April that there is no need for mass storage of sensitive personal data?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112250	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112253	Well, I and we listen to that one, of course. Now we have to see how it develops at EU level, because once it is adopted, it is also something that needs to be implemented here and that needs to be adapted if we agree. After all, there are criteria to ensure that that information cannot just be stored, and I think there is a very big difference in relation to the logging directive, which we in the Radical Left welcome is cancelled and we do not have any plans to support logging any further. So that is a balance for us too, and I believe that this proposal falls within the balance that we think is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112348	Then there should be a little quiet in the gallery. Thank you. It's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112354	Thank you. But then I have some follow-up questions: how is this case in principle different from the whole logging discussion about mass storage of sensitive personal information? Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen often says in these discussions where we know there is an EU directive or other EU legislation on the way: let us wait for it. Why should Denmark introduce such a thing independently when there is work going on? And what if we are faced with the fact that, in relation to legal certainty, this is far more than what might later come as a European PNR model? Should we then implement the one that actually puts legal certainty higher than the Danish model does?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112449	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112452	As I understand it, this proposal is in line with what we have seen from the European level. It is clear that there is a discussion there. I think that the framework for this is different from that for the logging directive, which has just been annulled and which was about mass storage of a large number of information, and which also proved not to be applicable because it was so extensive. This is about air travel, and it is information held by private companies, which has also been discussed and to which SKAT already has access. I think it's fair that PET gets it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112539	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112544	Back in 2007, terrorist package II was adopted and, in fact, attempts were made to give PET the opportunity to obtain this information. Well, we didn't succeed, and then we had the whole pussy with it, and then PET started doing it anyway without having the authority to do so. It is a terrible mess to do things that way, and I am quite sure that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen agrees with me on that. But at that time Radicals actually voted against the Terror Package II, and in the rapporteur's speech it was also justified that this access to PNR data was too far-reaching and that it is no use going alone in Denmark. What has changed since then?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112636	Thank you. I also think I can recognise the issue from the debate in May, and that is quite fair. But we have taken stock of the debate in Europe, which is also going on and which is why there is a proposal from the Commission which is now being considered and has taken longer to be dealt with than we might have anticipated. I think it is fine and reasonable that Denmark has now prepared itself for the legislation that comes at European level and that it is sufficiently fenced in, so we think we can be involved here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112712	Thank you, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112716	Well, that's quite fair. At that time, it was not just a question for Radicals that one went alone or not. It was also a question of legal certainty. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen spoke a little bit about it herself, that is to say that we are really dealing here with what can honestly be called a mass monitoring tool. All citizens have their sensitive information gathered and analysed and examined quite freely, it has to be said. Is there some kind of limit to radicals in the big picture, and are we gradually reaching the limit of how much monitoring we have to put up with?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112755	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112758	I think there is a difference between PNR information on flights and the whole debate on mass logging of information. That's between the things we draw a line. It is clear that such a thing is always a really difficult balance. I am also concerned about the general monitoring in our society. We are in the Radical Left and we are not prepared to compromise with it in general terms. We believe that this is within what we think is reasonable to give PET the opportunity to do, given what else they have of opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112840	Then it's mr. Steen Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112846	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur mentioned that Radicals and the rapporteur saw very clearly the criteria for collecting and storing these data. I hardly remember the exact wording, but I think I heard the rapporteur say that the criteria for collection and conservation were clear. This surprises me a little, because I do not think that the draft law lists any kind of storage criteria, i.e. how long or how little time these data should be lost in the SKAT. So where is it that the rapporteur sees those criteria so clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029112924	I don't think that's exactly what I said either. However, I say that I believe that the legislative proposal as such has a sufficiently clear framework. It is clear that when you are in PET's area, it is almost impossible to be completely clear, because then you will prevent PET's work. I feel sufficiently informed, and we have had a very thorough discussion in the Radical Left, in relation to the possibilities that PET should have in view of technological developments, and in view of what other Danish authorities have of the possibility of obtaining information.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113002	Thank you. That was the last of the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113024	It is of course important that PET has the right tools when it comes to combating terrorism and attacks on Danish soil. But at the same time, all of us in this Chamber have a responsibility to protect what makes our society very good and safe and free: from the SF we think it is important that more monitoring tools are not simply sneaked through the Folketing with care. PET is already able to obtain information on air passengers in Section 148a of the Aviation Act. As far as I am concerned, I am now very concerned about the provision of personal data in Jutland without any specific suspicion and without a warrant. And I am impressed by the fact that the Digital Security Council believes that there should be a demand for concretely justified suspicions that a passenger is associated with a terrorist activity or group of terrorists. I am also impressed by the fact that the IT-Politic Association states that PNR data may contain sensitive personal data and criticises the fact that the bill does not contain any specific restrictions on this information. I am impressed by the fact that the National Association of Defence Attorneys, in its hearing answer, speaks against the bill and calls for at least a court order, and I am absolutely impressed that the Data Protection Agency states that the bill provides for a derogation from the Personal Data Act. There is also a great deal of criticism in relation to the draft law. These are all associations that we often listen to, because they have a very objective approach to things, and they are very well within this area of drugs. If they criticise this draft law in such harsh terms as they are now writing such a consultation answer, then I really think there is cause for concern. After all, this is a re-submission of a previous bill, and then the SF announced that we would very much like a hearing. We think this is very, very important and should be further clarified. Then there were choices, and now there's barely time for that. I find that very unfortunate. When my fellow MEPs, who are in favour of the bill, from up here from the platform have said that the logging order and the whole discussion about it are quite different from what we are discussing today, then I find it hard to see. After all, the principle is that there is a mass storage of sensitive personal data without any concrete suspicion and without a warrant. I think it is a slip in relation to the values that make Denmark what we love and think is important. It is a slippage in relation to the legal certainty of citizens, and we must also ask ourselves whether we are really preventing attacks on Danish soil. And there's the standard answer: we can't know that, because we don't know about the inner life of PET and their work. We have a concern to take into account both the security of citizens, but also the legal certainty and freedom of citizens, and that is where I think this bill goes far too far. So the SF can't support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113343	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113346	Thank you. If one now imagines that we will have a European PNR system which is very similar to this, how will the SF deal with it? I understand that, in relation to the agreement that we five parties have made about Europol, we agree that we are ready to participate in the future European PNR system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113411	When we discussed the legal reservation and the agreement that we five parties made, it was very important for the SF that it should be written "can" and not "must" in relation to the European PNR system. That was something that was emphasised by my President, because we had to take a position on it when we knew the model that existed. Therefore, it should be stated that the text of the agreement can be read rather than should be read. So I am very pleased with that. In fact, I also hope that the European Parliament will be moved by some of the things that lie with the Commission right now, so that there will be some powers to obtain information on flight patterns on grounds of suspicion, but without a warrant. There are several who say that this is very similar to the judgment of April 2014, when the European Court of Justice stated that people's sensitive information must not be kept in mass for no reason. That is why we must take a position on the European PNR system when it comes and see if it is something that we can endorse. And that is also the reason why the text of the agreement says "can't be done'.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113522	No one else has made too short a comment. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113538	The Conservative People's Party is in favour of the proposal we are debating here today and can support it. I think I need to say before there is too much discussion in it about how much mass surveillance there is, that you almost get the impression that there are a lot of people sitting in PET and watching • as I said earlier in an answer to a question • that Åse and Vagn are going on a charter trip to Alanya. So, this is all about the fact that, within the framework of the PET law and the supervision that is with PET, PET has some opportunities to follow certain travel patterns, it could follow some suspects in their doings and barn, all in the interests of the security of citizens and Denmark. I think that is absolutely crucial in relation to this proposal. You can make lists where you look at what kind of travel patterns people have, what detours people take, and people who have a certain travel pattern, it might be an idea to keep an eye on. Well, I think it's important that we may wake up a little from our thorn rose sleep in Denmark, where we think: It doesn't happen, now we shouldn't be so afraid, and we shouldn't have all these rules. For us, it is actually important that the Danes can feel safe. Having said that, I fully agree that there are considerations in this matter. I fully agree that this case of course means that you stand with the scales in your hand and say: should a court order be sought afterwards, or do we not see it as necessary in this context? We have therefore come to the conclusion that we do not believe that what is allowed here requires a court order to be issued afterwards. Of course, you can look at this differently. I do not believe that this proposal represents a slippery slope or that PET can now just do whatever they want. In fact, I think it is common sense that the information that an airline already has can be accessed by PET in a situation where there are suspects. That is some very credible information they have. You have to write your real name, your real passport number, etc. So it makes sense; it is an effective tool to use in that way. That monitoring of travel patterns may be important and that they may not be hung up on one particular person, but may lead to one being aware that there are some who do not have pure flour in the bag, I really think it makes sense. It can also be people you suddenly find out are known for past crime and you can then follow here. So in our optics it is not about mass surveillance of Danish citizens, it is about using common sense and in this context could follow some travel patterns or could grab particularly suspicious individuals or suspects and find out whether they are doing something they are not supposed to do. That is why we support the proposal here after consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113904	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029113911	Thank you. I'm gonna bite you, sir. I'm gonna bite you. I'm gonna bite you. Søren Pape Poulsen is very concerned about how natural this is, so it is for philanthropic that it does nothing, that PET has done it illegally for a few years, and that it is only natural that you obtain such information here. And then I get a little sad. Because when we had the first legislative proposal before the elections and also had the debate in the press after the elections, I heard Conservatives say that it was good that we could have access to that information, but that there had to be a court order so that legal certainty was in order. What has changed for Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114001	I just want to say that I'm not sure that for the philanthropist is the kind of expression you use here. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114011	I don't want the questioner to see it like I'm taking it lightly. In fact, I think that this is very serious and that citizens' legal certainty must always be taken seriously. That is also why we have actually spent a great deal of time discussing whether or not there should be a warrant. Now we have had more time to discuss the bill, and we have also had the opportunity to hear more about the matter with the Minister of Justice. This means that when we look at the overall package and the possibilities that PET has here, we are confident that it will be used correctly, and we also think that it is on a scale where we can vouch for PET to have these opportunities. But I am not trying to hide the fact that we have not had any thought about whether it should be in one direction or another, because this is a matter in which we are balancing, and I would like to say this quite frankly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114104	Thank you. Here we go again, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114108	I think that's really nice to Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen says. For this is one of many actions at the moment, where more and more information becomes available to the PET and the police without a This applies to both PNR data, i.e. air passenger data, today, and it also applies to license plate scanners, that is to say where our cars have driven to when, compared to our phone information etc. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says that it is always a consideration, and this time you have come up with the idea that a court order is not necessary. I would just like to know if there is some total amount of surveillance that can at some point become so violent not ■ concrete, but assembled that we must then say that now we are holding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114202	Yes, of course there is; of course, there is a limit to what monitoring we should have in our society. Where that limit should go you can't say by a number or by a word. It is, of course, a question of assessing when we are going too close to when we are going too far in relation to citizens' legal certainty. Nor should it be the case that, as a citizen, by walking on the streets and alleys at home, we feel imprisoned, so that we become so afraid that we put ourselves in prison for surveillance day and night. That's not what this is about either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114232	Thank you. Then it's mr. Steen Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114236	Thank you for that, thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I took note of the fact that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen in his speech found it natural that in those situations and I am now trying to quote, please correct me, if I am wrong where there is concrete suspicion, record the information. This surprises me a little, because in reality what is being said may be that we are all suspects from the outset. Now that we allow PET to sit down and analyze travel patterns, we're all basically inside the box that says that we're actually a little bit suspect. Then we look at travel patterns and travel destinations, and not least where you come from. So what I really want an answer to is this very thing about how Conservatives and the rapporteur see this balance exactly. Because I hear one and then hear something else, and I do not think it is clear what Conservatives really want and mean here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114339	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114342	Well, then I must have expressed myself unclearly. In those cases where it makes sense that is what should be understood by it I feel it natural that you can get the information. It's just not if you have them and the travel patterns, and funny enough you have a travel pattern that looks something suspicious, then it could be a link in what at some point gives rise to a suspicion that makes PET then say that hoof, here's something we need to keep an eye on. I think that is common sense, and I would like to say that I also have no idea that PET feels so interesting that Aase and Vagn go on charter holiday to Alanya, nor should they feel that is so interesting, and they should not. It is also under the supervision of PET. So I don't even have the fear that PET is acting like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114434	Here you go, sir. Steen Holm Iversen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114438	It was just a brief general matter, but that is really what is going to happen here. We will, of course, be able to obtain and retain general information about all of us. My view is that if, from an investigative point of view, you need to know something about some, then you may have a very clear impression of who is really inside that sphere and is therefore able to focus. What just puzzles me a little about this and about the rapporteur's speech is: what is it that makes it impossible to find a warrant like searches and then get that information? Why is it that you see that there is a need to collect data about ourselves in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114516	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114519	It is access to the information that we think is important. The information is already being collected, after all, that is something the airlines are doing. Every time the questioner and I, if that is the case, travel around the world, if we do so, we will be registered in every context of the world, and then it is so that the police intelligence service can access this information if there is any suspicion. If there are special travel patterns, then you can go into it, and we feel that this is completely within the scope of what we think an intelligence service should be able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114559	Sir. Steen Holm Iversen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114603	But, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, everyone collects information about everyone. From a commercial point of view, telephone companies and mobile phone companies and airlines will collect information about our friends, our destinations and our wishes. Where is it that sir? Søren Pape Poulsen sees the difference here? Why is it that we can't go out and get a court order and get that information? If I want to know where people are, I'll look at Twitter or Facebook, and I'll find out where people are. Of course, PET has that option too. So I just ask again: what is the real reason why Conservatives can support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114637	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114641	The reason for this is that you can both do something about specific suspects, but also that you can add some different forms and ask: How is it that certain travel patterns work? If then there are certain travel patterns, and suddenly some people are living up to these travel patterns over and over again, then it may be that an alarm bell rings, and then you can act. That's why I'm not worried about this general surveillance that it's being portrayed as. It will be used by the police intelligence service with the resources they have to ensure national security.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114711	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114715	What is the rapporteur's view that ordinary people can end up on terrorist lists precisely on the basis of such things? I'm talking about a specific case, Steven Hayes, who is a Fox News reporter who, along with his wife, took a stroll to Istanbul, and then he ended up on a watch list. When he had to fly the next time, he simply could not get on his plane because he had landed on an American terrorist list based on the same criteria as here, that is, that there were some who had found it suspicious of his travel patterns.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114759	With all due respect, I would very much like to avoid having to stand here and defend US terrorism legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114804	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114807	My question is simply that this is all about patterns and that it depends on what can be read into ordinary people's travel patterns. And with all due respect to the rapporteur too, it must be said that Danish terrorism legislation is reasonably inspired by US terrorism legislation as well. So there I just ask hypothetically whether the rapporteur does not think it is a problem that ordinary people can be denied access to fly because they land on a terrorist list simply because they have had a shorter holiday trip for example. Istanbul. Following on from that, the rapporteur asked what the problem is when airlines also have access to it here. But airlines are subject to the Personal Data Act, which is being violated by this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114901	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114904	I think it is unfortunate if you have a single case like that mentioned by the questioner here and that it should then form the framework for the whole discussion on the framework for what legislation we can then have. This is a deeply regrettable matter that has probably happened, I don't know what the case is. It is a deeply regrettable matter that has happened and there has been a mistake. And yes, there may be mistakes. I fully agree with that. But to make it that now ordinary Danes risk ending up on PET's terrorist list, I think is more theory than it is about reality. I just don't have that fear around PET.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114937	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else wants to speak, except the Minister for Justice, who has to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029114946	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for today's debate on the draft law on access to PNR data by SKAT and PET. With that bill, we are taking a significant step in ensuring that PET has access to relevant information that airlines have about their passengers, the so-called PNR data. This will strengthen PET's monitoring of whether persons with possible ties to terrorist activities are on their way to or from Denmark. We have a responsibility to ensure that our authorities have the tools necessary to ensure security and security. It is in this light that this bill must be seen. The conflict in Syria and Iraq are now the main factor in the threat picture in relation to terror against Denmark. The conflict area continues to attract both new travellers and those who have previously left. This is among other things. for this reason, at the heart of the fight against terrorism, PET should be given rapid and effective access to information that persons with a possible link to terrorist activities are on their way to or from Denmark. This bill will help to ensure that. The draft law will therefore include, among other things: strengthen PET's capabilities to identify persons travelling to conflict zones to fight against terrorist organisations. More specifically, the bill provides for changes in the Customs Act and the PET Act so that PET will be able to access through SKAT the PNR data that PET needs in relation to the performance of the Secret Service's tasks relating to the prevention and investigation of violations of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. PET will thus, via SKAT, in relation to flights to and from Denmark, among others. be able to access information about the name, itinerary, date of travel, airline, names of fellow travellers and contact details of the person who booked the ticket; could be essential in order to enable PET, inter alia, to: identify persons travelling to conflict zones to fight against terrorist organisations. When the government proposes to allow PET to obtain information on who is travelling in and out of the country, then there are serious social considerations behind it. In this context, it must be borne in mind that intelligence work is often like putting in a puzzle where individual information, which is not necessarily burdensome, can have a decisive impact on the prevention of terrorism when combined with other information. Therefore, in the view of the Government, PET should be able to obtain the information in question. This must be done with respect for our fundamental freedoms. Therefore, it must be the case that PET only has access to the information that PET needs. The draft law is designed to ensure that information is stored and handled in a sound manner and in accordance with the rules of the Personal Data Act, the Administration Act and the PET Act. The supervision of intelligence services will, of course, be able to check that PET is only seeking information when it is relevant to the fight against terrorism and other very serious crimes. The proposal also supports as administratively flexible a solution as possible. This also applies to the airlines, who will be able to provide information in the formats used by themselves and known to them from other countries. The aviation industry has attached great importance to this in the consultation response. I note that several of the parties to the hearing reiterate the concerns expressed by those concerned during the hearing of the then government's anti-terrorism package II of 2006. The anti-terrorism package II also included: aim to provide PET with quick and effective access to PNR information. In this connection, a majority of the Folketing considered that PET should have such access to PNR data and adopted Section 148a of the Aviation Act. As described in the bill, the design of a Danish PNR system on the basis of Section 148a of the Aviation Act appeared more technically complex than provided for in the introduction and therefore the provision is not put into effect. With this bill, it is proposed that PET will now have a quick and effective access to PNR data, but a different legal model has been chosen from the last one, among other things. in the light of experience. As a number of the consultation answers and the debate today also show, one can, of course, have different views on the elections and other elements, but of course I am available to answer any questions that may be involved in the committee's examination of the legislative proposal, including the choices made in relation to the elements. I look forward to further consideration and, with those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for the various contributions they have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115431	Then there are a few brief comments. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115436	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. As the Minister also notes, we have dealt with this bill before the spring elections, and there was Mr. Karsten Lauritzen rapporteur on the Left. He then told the press: "This can be an effective protection against terrorism, so we support that. However, it must be ensured that the information can actually be used in the fight against terrorism, so that it does not become common mass surveillance of the Danes. I think that is an important point, also for those people who support the collection of this kind of information. So what I would like to ask the Minister, as I did in my rapporteur's speech, is: does the Minister have examples of cases where PET has used this kind of information?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115535	I think it is important to say in this context that PET will only be able to obtain information which may have an impact on the performance of PET's task in the prevention and investigation of precisely violations of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. I mean, it's one of those things. terrorism; it is soon treason and other regulations of this kind. What PET can do, then, is to use the proposed access to the service's tasks to prevent and investigate acts and undertakings which pose or could pose a danger to the preservation of Denmark as a free, democratic and secure society. This has nothing to do with mass surveillance. It is a framework for PET's work which I consider to be sufficient in relation to the concerns of Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115627	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115630	That is not an answer to my question either. What I was asking wasn't about sir. Karsten Lauritzen and the Minister disagree on what is mass surveillance and what is not. What I was asking was whether the Minister has any examples of PET actually using this information for something.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115657	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115700	Mrs Pernille Skipper asks whether there are concrete examples of whether this has been used. To that I would say that I would very much like to give concrete examples of this. I do not think that would be in line with the way in which I think I should deal with my office with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115731	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115735	It is always the discussion, when we have this type of legislative proposal in the Chamber, that we are asked, on the one hand, as democratically elected representatives of the people, to take a position on some things that are very far-reaching and, on the other hand, when we ask whether it is a specific tool or whether it is merely a mass monitoring exercise, we are told that this cannot be dealt with in detail. In a large number of other areas, we are told by the government that Denmark should not take the lead in relation to other EU countries, but in this case it will not wait for European PNR legislation. The Commission has a proposal right now that is being discussed. Large parts of the European Parliament are very critical of this. So what I would now like to ask the Minister is: why is it that we have to rush through a Danish PNR instead of waiting for a European model?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115838	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115841	After all, there are a number of serious reasons for this and those reasons are outlined in the draft law. It is because it is considered that this is a very, very important instrument for the intelligence service. And when Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that I have to give specific examples and that you always get the answer that you cannot, I would also say to Mrs Pernille Skipper that there is actually an example I can give you, and I would like to do that. I do not think this is something that we should use a great deal of effort on, but the so-called Glass Road case was a matter where this was actually used and where it was a clear help in terms of how it ended up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115925	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115930	So the Minister does not think that the basis for a society of law in which civil, liberal freedoms are properly, very high, should be that our intelligence services, which have very wide powers, should have some form of suspicion in order to be able to obtain citizens' personal data?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029115955	Yeah, that's how it's gonna be under a lot of circumstances. But it doesn't really make sense when the whole bill is about uncovering travel patterns, which may be a threat to Denmark, so to ask you to know in advance who is provoking the threats in question. The whole point is the opposite. The whole point is to find out who it is. And that's why this discussion in this sense is upside down. Well, how can you ask for a warrant against someone you don't know who is? I have not yet seen anyone able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029120024	Thank you. As no more people have asked for the floor there is at least no more who can get it, of those who have been received the debate has ended. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Then I'll postpone the meeting. There's a break till 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130001	The sitting is resumed. The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130024	It is totally unacceptable when residents join extremist movements and participate in illegal acts of war. In the social democracy we cannot warn enough against going to war on our own, and we strongly reject those who, with religion as a cover, kill and destroy. At the beginning of the new year, we tightened the legislation so that the authorities can now include the passport of those who may have plans to go to illegal war. It has proved to be a good tool. At the same time, we asked the Criminal Code Council to consider the possibilities for tightening the participation and recruitment of armed conflicts abroad, to which the Danish State is a party. The statements by the Criminal Court came in June and are the reason for these further tightenings which we are discussing today. Let me therefore begin by commending the government for continuing this incredibly important work. The bill we are discussing here means that a new provision is inserted in Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code on crimes against State independence and security. With the proposal it will be separately criminalised when a Danish national or resident foreigner is joined by an enemy armed force fighting against the Danish state. At the same time, the proposal ensures that in future there is a legal basis for punishing Danish nationals or resident foreigners for such an enemy armed force. Public calls to join illegal acts of war are also being punished, and this will mean that when an imam directly calls to join the fighting troops of extremist organisations, it can be punished. At the same time, the Criminal Code Council was asked to assess an amendment to Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code, so that it is clearly marked that the most serious crimes in the chapter are an expression of treason. The experts found that there is a legal basis for this as well as a change in this bill. That is good, because in social democratic terms you are a traitor, and it must also be punished as such. The Social Democrats want to put a hard fight against extremism and, above all, against the Danes and her residents who join illegal war. We are pleased that the government has chosen to continue the initiatives that we proposed, and with those words I must say that we agree with the draft law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130316	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130326	We in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that this bill is now drawing a line in the sand against Danish citizens or foreigners resident in Denmark who, through participation in an enemy armed force, are in any case committing a crime against Denmark. It is gratifying that we are now making a clear stand against this. For it can never be right, of course, that as a citizen or guest in our lovely country, one should actively take sides with countries or movements that actively seek to combat Denmark. We must be able to demand some kind of loyalty from people who are in this country, because of course Denmark should not be a passive heat room for holy warriors who are fighting Denmark and Danish interests. That does not mean that there is no need to make the speech long, and with those words I can warmly recommend the proposal, which we are very pleased with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130430	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130438	Thank you. The bill is about criminalising Danish citizens or resident foreigners who join a foreign armed force fighting against Denmark during armed conflict. Some would argue that the provision is already to be found in section 102 of the Criminal Code, but there has obviously been so much doubt as to whether it is valid that it has been considered sensible to establish a completely new, isolated provision, and I can only welcome that. In the bill we are about to deal with today, there is a provision that it must be considered treason against Denmark if a Danish national or resident foreigner joins an enemy armed force fighting against the Danish state. This also applies when the enemy armed force belongs to a non-governmental player, and also when the fighting takes place far away from Danish territory. That act shall be punishable by imprisonment for 10 years and, in aggravating circumstances, by life imprisonment, especially if the persons concerned have taken part in fighting. At the same time, it is proposed that a Danish national or resident resident be recruited separately for such an enemy armed force or to publicly encourage such a person to join such a force. And it is prison for 10 years and under aggravating circumstances for 16 years we are talking about here. As has been mentioned earlier, the word 'traitory' is now included in the title of Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code, and I also fully understand that. The Left can agree to the bill. There can be no doubt that it is unacceptable for persons associated with Denmark to take part in armed conflict, in armed struggle against the Danish state. So the Left is largely in agreement with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130629	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029130633	The bill we are discussing today is the result of the fact that in October 2014 and again in January 2015 the then government asked the Criminal Law Council to investigate whether it could and should tighten the penalties for more effectively punishing those from Denmark who are reporting for armed struggle for states or groups in armed conflict with Denmark. In concrete terms, the initiative comes from the ravages of Islamic State in Syria and Northern Iraq and from the reports that even a great many young people from Denmark have volunteered to fight for the terrorist movement Islamic State. Of course, in the Enhedslisten, we are very, very much in agreement that the Islamic State must be combated and that the people who join the Islamic State tabs and who commit war crimes, terror, ethnic cleansing, contribute to mass rape, hostage-taking and, of course, almost what is worse, must be punished for the deeds they are involved in. But it is very, very difficult to punish such deeds, because it is difficult to collect evidence from war zones, and we so wish that something more was done to get over it. That is why we have proposed several times, for example. money could be allocated to a special task force of the Attorney General for Special Economic and International Crime, so that we can have more effective collection of evidence and so that the people who commit these monstrous acts are actually also punished, because they are going to criminalise this bill to go and join the armed forces at all. It has been pointed out by the Institute for Human Rights that there are some concepts that have been applied both in the draft of the Criminal Law Council and in this bill, which is very vaguely defined. That is something that concerns us in the Enhedslisten, and it does, among other things. in view of the fact that recently, in fact in February, not with the votes of Enhedslisten, fortunately, a bill was voted through in the Danish Parliament to take the pass from people who go to Syria or Northern Iraq to fight with the Islamic State. That was the intention, but it has now become apparent that, because of the vague definitions, it actually affects the people who go down there to fight against the Islamic State. This means that we will again be somewhat concerned about a legislative proposal which is not clearly defined in the terms. Of course, we will ask a few questions about that. In addition, both the Red Cross and the Institute for Human Rights have pointed out some other problems in the draft law, among others. that people who have worked exclusively as health professionals can also be affected by these very strict penal regulations, and we think that we should also look at that. Then there is a particular, almost ideological aspect of the bill, which deals with the title of Chapter 12 of the Penal Code, so that treason becomes explicit. After all, we in the Enhedslisten think it is extremely important to punish people who commit crimes and to punish them for those I think it is not so important to punish Danish citizens who are fighting with the Islamic State on the basis of a moral notion that they are failing Denmark by reporting and thereby committing treason. The crimes against which we must take action and which we must use our strength to prevent, and which we must use our strength on a very, very clear basis to tell us are not in order, are, after all, those that are about terrorising, killing, raping and taking hostages. These are the actions that are important to be punished. It's not this kind of moral responsibility to Denmark; I think it might be a little late for that. Summa summarum, we are not completely opposed to voting in favour of criminalising participation in armed conflict against Danish forces, but that means that we need to have clear definitions and boundaries on this bill so that we are sure that we are actually hitting the people who commit acts we want to punish, but not people who have not done anything that is in such a way worthy of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131129	Thank you. For the time being, a single person has asked for a brief comment. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131134	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that it is not so important what concepts or words are used, in this case treason, and it is fair enough that this is the rapporteur's view. But I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur think that this is treason if you go out and fight against Danish soldiers?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131157	1) I do not have a position on this. 2) It doesn't matter if I had an opinion on it. 3) What I feel has nothing to do with law or with what to be punished for, and that is after all what we are dealing with here today. 4) I do not really care whether we call it treason or not. It has something to do with moral failure. What I think is the terrible thing and what we should be concentrating on is that far too little time has been spent in this Parliament, compared with how many times we have been talking about treason is that these people are contributing to ethnic cleansing, mass rape and killing, and they are recruiting child soldiers. What they are doing is disgusting and not one of them has been punished for it. I think we should use our energy to find out how to ensure that we collect the evidence so that they can go to court for their misdeeds, instead of dragging them in court for hurting someone's feelings.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131257	Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131258	I fully agree with the rapporteur on everything that has just been said, I think; as I understood it, we must be on the villains, we must punish them and we must do everything we can. But does the rapporteur not recognise that it also has meaning, what words we use, and that it also has meaning, that we call it by name? We are part of a coalition, we send out Danish soldiers, and if someone goes out and shoots at Danish soldiers or fights Danish soldiers, then it has a value to call things by their right name, namely treason, because that is what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131330	I fully agree with Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen in that it has a value to call things by their proper name, and that is why I think it is important to call people who fight with the Islamic State, murderers, rapists, war criminals. Traitors are, excuse me, so low on the list that I'm not even down there yet. There are so many things where it is much, much more important to get signals signaled, how grotesque and gross and terrible what they do is than that they fail Denmark on a moral level. They are then abandoning us at a very, very concrete level, which we should point out instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131410	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131414	Thank you. I was completely surprised when I heard the answer to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's question. I can be quite shocked to hear the rapporteur say that there is no attitude to it if some people go out and fight Danish soldiers, and so I would just ask the rapporteur to say once again whether a person is a traitor or not a traitor if the person goes to war and shoots at Danish soldiers, fighting Danish soldiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131440	I'm terribly sorry if I've shocked sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, especially if I shock him with something I haven't said. I have not said that it does not matter whether you go out and fight Danish soldiers or, by the way, fight innocent Kurds in the areas under attack by the Islamic State, nordics or the peshmerga forces, or who else they attack and murder and rape and do worse. It doesn't matter. It's really, really central. What is at the bottom of my list of concerns is whether they betray Denmark morally. What is at the top is all the other crimes that they commit with their atrocities and their monstrous acts. I think that we should focus on this and therefore allow me to repeat: country treason and some moral betrayal that is about someone's feelings, I do not think that is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131543	Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131544	Then I will try once more to give the rapporteur the opportunity. If you, as a Danish citizen or a resident, go out and shoot at Danish soldiers, are you a traitor, or are you not a traitor? That can be answered briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131600	Well, if sir... Peter Kofod Poulsen asks what I feel is a traitor, I would say that I have just answered three times that I think it doesn't matter. That is why I have no opinion on it. If sir... Peter Kofod Poulsen asks what the legal definition of a traitor is, I can tell Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen that it is very, very complex and not quite so to answer yes or no. Ergo, the courts have to deal with when you are and when you are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131633	The next question is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131636	With respect for the fact that we are going on in the same way, I would say that we are only doing so because I have certainly not realised what the answer was. I have to ask directly, as my colleague has also asked: are you a traitor, if you shoot at Danish soldiers, in Mrs Pernille Skipper's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131652	As I said to Mr. Peter Kofod, and I would very much like to say that to Mr Kofod. Preben Bang Henriksen: If Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen asks about my personal feelings, what I feel is treason, and what I do not feel is treason, then I think it is an unimportant question, and I do not allow myself to have an opinion on it. If sir... Preben Bang Henriksen asks about the legal term for a traitor, I would say that you can legally do so if you leave. Or maybe you're not. But it is much more complex than that, and that is probably why the Criminal Code Council has been set in motion to look at it and has made a detailed description of when you are a traitor and when you are not. It's right here. I think, too, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen can find it online.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131740	Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131741	Does Mrs Pernille Skipper think that it does not matter whether, in legal provisions, the headlines in the penal code use the word 'traitory'?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131753-2	That's what I've said about ten times now: yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131800	There are a number of further questioners, and the first is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131803	I have such a feeling that Mrs Pernille Skipper is having a hard time doing that with treason because she does not recognise that you can be a traitor to your country. So I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper: Does Mrs Pernille Skipper mean that you can be a traitor to your country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131821	Now, sir. Ole Birk Olesen took one word and made it two words and asked the same question again and then hopes to get another answer I think if I understand the question correctly. But I just repeat once again: if my moral sense of what a traitor is and whether it is possible to commit treason, I would say that I think it is irrelevant in this context. Because what I think is important is what makes me angry and which I think we should criminalize and punish • catch the criminals and make sure that they are brought to justice and thrown into the cachot, in well old-fashioned Danish • is not treason towards one's country. It is just as much treason against the thinking of democracy and everything else. These are quite specifically the crimes of punishment they commit, that is, violence, murder, the recruitment of child soldiers, ethnic cleansing, mass rapes. That's what you have to be punished for. That's what I care about. We have a long statement on the legal title.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131923	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029131924	I understand that for Mrs Pernille Skipper it does not matter whether treason is something that exists, not only in the legal sense, but also in the legal sense. But it is not for me, and that is why I ask whether Mrs Pernille Skipper believes that one can commit treason against her country. And if Mrs Pernille Skipper does not think that it is possible because Mrs Pernille Skipper does not believe in the name of treason or does not support it, then Mrs Pernille Skipper can just say so. Mrs Pernille Skipper can just say that she does not believe that treason against a country is something that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132003-2	I have answered the same question several times. Well, besides the fact that it's become such a religious thing now that you can believe in treason or not do it, which shows just how absurd this situation is, namely that we have spent so many minutes on this rather than discussing how we catch people for the crimes they actually commit, then I repeat that I think it doesn't matter. That is why I do not have a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132026	The next question is Mr. Steen Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132028	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Let me dwell a little on the distinction that the rapporteur is trying to make between law and morality. I think that goes a little further on the questions that have now been answered. It is surely morally aggressive to go to another country and shoot at Danish soldiers or participate in acts of war that are directed at Danish soldiers. I would like the rapporteur to confirm that the rapporteur agrees. Secondly, it is surely also morally objectionable that as a society we do not ensure that our soldiers, when they come home, do not run the risk of meeting combatants or non-combatants, we can call them just what we want to call people who have taken part in acts of war against them in the Danish streets. I hope that the rapporteur agrees with me, but I would like it to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132119	Of course, it is morally aggressive to go and fight with the Islamic State, and so it is, whether it is against Danish forces or the democratic forces that are in both Syria and Northern Iraq, the peshmegas and the Kurds, who are trying to protect the civilian population with all the force. It is also morally aggressive. And it is morally aggressive to carry out the concrete actions they are doing down there, of course, I would like to confirm that. What we are then talking about is what it is important to criminalise what it is important to have people punished for, and these are the very actions. It is precisely that people are being shot at, that they are committing attacks and war crimes. That is what is morally aggressive and therefore what we must pursue and punish. But the moral failure that lies in it because you do something about someone's feelings, that is, the treason, is simply so far down on the list of what I think is important to discuss when we talk about the people who take down and join the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132230	Thank you. Steen Holm Iversen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132231	So let me mention what we are asking new citizens to sign, i.e. that they actually sign that they will be loyal to the Danish state. Does the rapporteur not see a link between the bill we are discussing and what we have actually asked new citizens to confirm, namely that they will be loyal and faithful to the Danish state, its construction and democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132301	I think that might be a clutch I need to explain in an additional sentence or two. After all, it is also a declaration that only new citizens sign, and not something that those born into citizenship sign. And the legislation we are talking about today, and this bill applies to all Danish citizens born in Denmark or not. Fortunately, one can say, one does not distinguish here. But I would like to conclude that I am not opposed to this bill, on the contrary. We just have to make sure that we hit the right people with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132335	The next question is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132340	The reason we are gathered in the Parliamentary Chamber today is precisely to make a distinction between feelings and law. That is the difference between sitting in a circle outside the Chamber discussing feelings and then making it legally binding in here in the Chamber. So I would like to hear Mrs Pernille Skipper: if treason appears in Mrs Pernille Skipper's optics far down the list, what does Mrs Pernille Skipper propose of alternatives to sharpening the penalties and prosecuting more for these unsavory crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132422	One of the options is the other half of the bill that we are discussing today, in other words criminalising joining armed forces fighting against Denmark. There are some ambiguities that we would very much like to have clarified, so that we are sure that everyone understands exactly what the legislation is about and is sure what it is about some actions they must take and not take. Hopefully, this can also lead to a failure to do so, in other words to join armed forces fighting against Denmark or others. The next thing you could do, and some of what we really want to do, is actually try to get better at collecting evidence against the people who are actually leaving, so that they are prosecuted for the actions they are actually doing down there, and not just the fact that they are leaving. When we have the debate on treason, it is of course because you have such an idea that if you put the word treason into the top, in the title of a particular chapter, and that is what this is all about here, it should have a certain effect in itself. I don't think it has. But the fact that it says there isn't something that hurts me deeply either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132523	Thank you. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132526	After all, the proposal here is to tighten up the penalties and be able to prosecute more people, to judge them as traitors and thus to give a higher penalty. Does the Enhedslisten have any suggestions on how to increase the punishment in any way other than using the term treason? What other areas will the Enhedslisten alternatively sharpen the penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132552	As I have understood the bill, it is a matter of ensuring that you are convicted of joining armed forces fighting against Denmark, and that is what some people have a special need to call treason, and I believe that we have now established that I do not necessarily have that need. I do not think that this is the most important and punishable aspect of these actions. The alternative proposals we have, for example, are: to ensure that we criminalise it at all, if and if we can do so in a legally secure manner, and then to ensure that we are actually punished for the crimes committed. With regard to raising the penalties, we can surely find a lot of areas where we can just do it like that. That in itself does not necessarily have any effect, and what I am concerned about is that we actually have what has an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132640	Thank you. There's one question left? No, you don't. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Steen Holm Iversen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029132700	The draft law before us is about a change in the criminal code and is aimed at crimes against the independence and security of the state. The proposal states that if you as a Dane or a resident foreigner join a hostile armed force fighting against Denmark, it is an expression of treason. The proposal also states that recruitment or attempted recruitment to the same armed groups is also to be described as treason and can be punished under Chapter 12 of the Penal Code with imprisonment for up to 16 years. The Liberal Alliance supports this tightening of the penal code, and at the same time we see that this proposal can close the gap which has been seriously highlighted by the reality and by the situation that has been updated by both the many exorbitant so-called Syrian warriors as well as the everyday practice in the radicalised environments in Denmark, in order to deliver martyrs to, for example, the Islamic State and their medieval death struggle for a caliphate in Iraq and Syria. The Liberal Alliance supports the use made in the proposal of the term 'traitory' and sees that this can constitute a single term for probably the most serious crimes that our own citizens or residents can commit against our independence and against our security. We in the Liberal Alliance, as most people are probably aware, are very aware of the consequences for legal certainty which the content of the proposal may include. Former rapporteurs have also touched on this. It is serious when we move away from criminalising and legislating against specific actions and instead criminalise a joining or support of hostile groups either inside or outside our society. We therefore agree that, in these cases, we must exercise caution about the possible scope of interpretation that will result from the proposal, and we will therefore, in the work of the committee, monitor this very, very closely. However, the Liberal Alliance believes that there is a need for this amendment to the penal code, as we are in a reality where we have to deal with international non-state actors who are outside Danish territory but who pose a threat to Danish security. The Liberal Alliance also believes that it is absolutely essential to take action against the recruitment of both Danish citizens and resident foreigners, to which we are witnessing, and with the strongest possible signal, to understand that we regard this as the ultimate breach of trust and thus as treason. With this proposal, an adaptation of the penal code to the conflicts and wars that the world has witnessed and seen developing since 2004 will begin, and we would like to support it. With these words, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance agrees with the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133024	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133039	Thank you for the floor. It appears from the draft law that the purpose is to criminalise separately that a Danish national or resident foreigner is affiliated with an enemy armed force fighting against the Danish state and that it is criminalised separately to recruit a Danish national or resident foreigner to such an enemy armed force or to publicly encourage such a person to join such a force. Finally, as has already been debated here from the platform, the purpose is to introduce the word treason into the title of Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code, so that it is clearly indicated that the most serious crimes in the chapter are the expression of treason. In the alternative, we fully agree that it should not be possible for Danish citizens or residents to fight Danish soldiers in an armed conflict. We would therefore also like to recognise the Criminal Code Council for the work on the report and the Ministry for the work on the drafting of the proposal and for incorporating amendments and comments in the light of the very relevant and factual objections that have been raised in the hearings. Having said that, we are looking forward in the alternative to continuing work in committee, because I think there are still some ambiguities in the proposal which the alternative would like to clarify. There is the whole question of when there is agreement and commitment. I can be worried about how open it is to interpretation and when it is a real connection, just as a commitment to connection leaves a grey area. It can also be said about the definition of the incentive to join • what is needed in order to be judged for it? It may also be complex to define what, in an armed conflict, can be characterised as an organised and non-organised effort, that is, when it is one or the other, and also when the individual may be deemed to have joined such an organised effort. Then it is also emphasised in the comments to the draft law that all forms of connection are criminalised, including, for example, the right to vote in local elections. Sanitation work too, which in our optics may be contrary to the Geneva Conventions and the provisions of international law. That is why there is a remark that it is the support, not the work itself, that is being criminalised that worries us. It can also be difficult to determine which groupings the Danish state sees as opposing Danish interests. Examples from Syria show us that it is not an easy conclusion to draw. It can be difficult to determine that we have seen earlier • when we are clearly involved in an armed conflict and when we do not. That is why I really would like the committee to try to work on whether you can make such a plus/minus list. I don't think it's easy to make it... where you're looking more clearly at what kind of groups we're counting on are legal under this law and which groups aren't legal. Then I want to say something about treason, even though the discussion has been up here. After all, these are insanely complex matters when we are dealing with these armed conflicts, and what is at least important for the alternative is that it is not only the treasonous part that is important, but also the other acts of war that people are doing and which are important to punish. As I said, the alternative is positive with regard to the proposal and looks forward to further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133426	There's one person on the list who signed up, and that's Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133432	Thank you. I have full respect for the rapporteur's many considerations and can easily see that there may be many complex issues. But now words and concepts have value, and it may be more important for some of us than others what the value of those words is. That is why this prompts me to ask: if, as a Danish citizen, you are fighting on the side of the Islamic State and shooting at Danish soldiers, are you, according to the rapporteur, a traitor or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133508	But I can answer that very briefly: yes, and that is also what I was trying to signal. I just think I would like to signal that for me there is also a broader definition. There it is to be a traitor, but then there are the other atrocities committed by those involved, which have also been mentioned here on the platform: rapes, executions and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133526	Then we thank Mrs Josephine Fock. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133538	Thank you. I can be brief, because my comments are very much in line with those of the previous rapporteur. It is clear that in the previous government we just got the Criminal Code Council to look at this area. We wanted to wait for their comments before we wanted to legislate, and the Staff Law Council has come along with them now. They have made their comments on what could be called an update or modernisation of the penal code, in relation to how we perceive and define treason against Denmark. It is obviously unacceptable and reprehensible when Danish citizens or citizens living and living in Denmark join armed forces in battle against Denmark. That is why, of course, we support the draft law, which insists that it is even too wrong and therefore punishable. There were a few comments from the previous rapporteur on clarifications, and I also think it is very good that the comments on the draft law show that a number of the proposals from the consultation answers have been incorporated and that they have been taken into account. However, I still think that there are at least a few comments from the Institute for Human Rights on the application and interpretation of international humanitarian law and how it can be clarified that the interpretation here is in line with that interpretation. I also have a question with regard to the Sanitation personnel that we may be able to take in committee, that is to say: what if you do not know who it is, for which, if I may say so, humanitarian aid is being used? Is there such a situation? I would like us to turn that around, but in the Radical Left we support the whole idea here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133747	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029133759	The bill proposes to insert a new provision in Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code on crimes against State independence and security, separately to criminalise that a Danish citizen or resident is affiliated with an enemy armed force fighting against the Danish state. Then the discussion here today has been very much about treason, so, in order not to waste each other's time, I can say that the SF fully recognises the concept of treason, and then I hope that we may also be able to take some other discussions. In my optics, this proposal must not be left alone, because unfortunately, I think that the Minister for Justice often proposes that the penalty should be raised for one thing or another. There may well be good reasoning on this, but how do we prevent young people from going or anyone at all and fighting against Danish soldiers? I think that is enormously absent, and I think that is really a pity. In my optics, some very good consultation answers have come from the Red Cross and the Institute for Human Rights in particular, which I think we should listen to. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister for Justice has responded to a number of these concerns from the Red Cross and the Institute for Human Rights. There are two things that still concern me, and I have heard some of my colleagues say this, namely that the Institute for Human Rights points out that it is unclear whether section 101a applies if Denmark is an occupying power. The reply from the Ministry of Justice states that any occupation is therefore of no independent importance to the application of the proposed provision. I think that we simply need to get a little more tormented, because there are also international conventions on what people are entitled to if there is an occupation. I think we need to discuss this in committee. The second point raised by my colleagues from the Alternative and Enhedslisten is that both the Red Cross and the Institute for Human Rights are quite concerned about sanitation staff. The Geneva Convention expressly states that nursing staff cannot be punished for the care of the sick and injured. We simply must not do so, we must not do so. And the answer says that the person concerned is being punished for joining the armed force, not for caring for the sick or injured. It is simply too much rubber band, we need to clarify something more about whether you join the armed force alone to be there as a nurse or a doctor. It is far too unclear, and we need to get this right in order for the SF to be able to support. But basically, as I said to the Minister before, I would like to acknowledge that so many of the concerns of the Institute for Human Rights and the Red Cross have been incorporated that it has been well addressed and clarified some things, but I still think that we need to correct precisely these two things, so that there is no doctor or nurse being punished for fulfilling some obligations to which they are actually entitled under the Geneva Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134106	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134119	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party agrees with the proposal. If you fight against the Danish state, no matter where Danish soldiers are, it is in our optics treason. Then you can have many discussions about definitions and how important a word is or is not, but this is important to us, because it also sends a signal that we take the nation state seriously; we take it seriously to belong to a nation. It is also quite logical for us to criminalise recruiting Danish citizens or resident foreigners for an enemy force or encourage it. The word treason is hard, but it is a right word when it comes to people who fight against Danish soldiers. It's hardly gonna be any more disgusting. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134221	There are two who have asked for brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134229	Thank you. It was said that there may be many discussions on definitions of words, I think it was. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Søren Pape Poulsen agrees that it is important that it is clear what is illegal, so it is quite clear to Danish citizens who go into this that they know that this is illegal. So I guess it's important. - Sir... Søren Pape Poulsen confirm that it is also important which definitions are of the different things?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134308	I can fully confirm that. I fully agree with the questioner. For us, it is only very important that the word 'traitory' should also be clearly stated in this case. I fully agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134321	Round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134324	I'm glad. I also assume that we can agree that it is important for us in committee to clarify the meaning of these words.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134335	The next brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134338	Will Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen will help to clarify in the committee's work that, according to the rights conferred by the Geneva Convention, such as: nurse or doctor to care for the sick and injured, cannot be punished for it, and that, of course, this should not be the case here either? If you are caring for someone who is ill or injured as a result of combat, but in no way has he himself been involved in fighting, should you be punished for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134407	I think it is very relevant that we should discuss further in committee, because we must, of course, respect the conventions that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134418	Is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen agrees that the fundamental right in the Convention, namely that you, as a nurse or a doctor, should not be punished for caring for people, should apply in § 101a, which we are discussing today? I think it is fair to answer this question, in other words whether it is felt that this Convention should also apply here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134443	I would like to discuss it further. I just want to reserve the right to take a closer look at it. I haven't written the convention in this context. I would ask you to understand that I cannot make such a long statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134457	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no further rapporteurs, so the next speaker is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134512	For some, Denmark is an abstraction, for the government is the concrete reality and the starting point for our work. In recent years, enormous challenges have been posed, not least in the fight against terrorism, a development that started back in 2001. What we need to recognise when combating this type of crime is that symbolism means something, that words have a crucial meaning, that saying things as they are can help to create violence against others simply joining in the same deeds that a single perpetrator has done. Some people think terrorists are idiots. I wish it were so. These are, in some respects, dedicated people who, in some contexts, sacrifice themselves in order to achieve the goal they are aiming for. And the targets they're aiming for aren't random. We saw that on September 11 when two towers fell. We have seen this in Denmark, where you have gone after cartoons who simply used their freedom of expression, where you went after a peaceful meeting about freedom of expression on Østerbro, and where you went to harm Danish Jews in Krystalgade. I wish they were idiots, for idiots are easy to fight; dedicated people, on the other hand, are a more difficult task. And that is why we must use symbolism ourselves in our fight to fight them. That's why this bill is important. Land treason is not just a moral concept, it is also a legal concept, a legal concept that we use to punish the people who commit it, hard, as hard as anything, with the penal code in hand. It is to say that there is one we It may be that some see Denmark as an abstraction, but for us it is a concrete reality and what is the starting point for our work. The bill will ensure that Danish citizens and resident foreigners can always be punished for treason if they join an enemy armed force; that is, an armed force for a party participating in the armed conflict against the Danish state. Thus, people associated with Denmark who act contrary to the special obligation of loyalty are targeted not feeling that is vis-à-vis Denmark. People living in this country must be loyal to Denmark. We cannot accept that militant extremist groups succeed in recruiting foreign fighters from Denmark. And when people disregard that loyalty and choose to fight under the extremists' flag, they should be aware that they meet with the most serious consequence of the law when they return. For the sake of good order, the bill does not end the consideration of criminal action against participation in armed conflicts abroad. The Criminal Code Council will issue a report at the beginning of the new year, and the government will decide on the need for further criminal action. In this context, the Council is looking at the issue of entry bans in conflict areas. Against this background, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for a good and informative debate. I look forward to further discussion in the Danish Parliament and, as always, I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134941	Thank you. One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029134947	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I recognise the premise on which the Minister speaks. There's a we. You have privileges as a national of a country, the right to the protection of the state, some rights and some obligations. You have some privileges, and that's a commitment. I am just concerned about the part that I also read out in my rapporteur's speech that sanitation staff can be punished, and I still think it is unclear where it says that it is not the fighting that is being criminalised, but that it is the joining of an armed force of some kind. But where is the connection, if you are away for Doctors without Borders or others, and you are in an area where it may be a little difficult to know the difference between friend and enemy? It is, after all, a right under the Geneva Convention not to take that into account. Can we not get more into the bill that it must not be a rubber rubber rubber band when you have joined a force by just being a caregiver?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135053	I think it is wise for the Danish Parliament to carry it out during the committee work. What I can say about this is that if, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also says, you are connected under command, you do what you are told to do, you will be included in the planning and there will be many, more precise words to be used when discussing it here in committee. But take, for example. relief work. In other words, there is a distinction here between whether you are part of the force or whether you are simply doing relief work without, for example, having to do it. can be ordered around. That is what matters. You can't help, you can't be a part of it. But I think it is quite fine that the Danish Parliament wants it to be bored out during the committee work, and we will of course also be able to help with that, so that the nuances can be completely clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135143	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135146	I am very pleased to hear that, and I also believe that the two consultation parties, which focus on this, the Red Cross and the Institute for Human Rights, will be very pleased that it is being thrown out completely, that there is no rubber band in it, that you have the rights that you have under the Geneva Convention to carry out your duties as sanitary personnel. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135214	There is certainly nothing more natural than that I say that things should be pricked out, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135223	With this remark, I note that no one else has asked for the floor and that we are therefore concluding this debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135242	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr. Jeppe Bruus for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135259	Thank you. The bill put forward by the government is about downsetting SKAT's control of undeclared work and social dumping. This is, in fact, the only concrete bill from this government on social dumping, which is why it is a little paradoxical that it is a question of weakening the scope for SKAT to control what is professional construction on private property. We have been trying for a long time to get answers and arguments from the government and through consultation, written comments and oral and written § 20-questions tried to clarify some things. And I have to say that we have not yet really managed to find the good arguments for this bill to be a good idea. The Minister of Taxation states that this is a matter of principle, yes, that it is actually an infringement of citizens' rights when SKAT has the opportunity to cross the border to the garden and control professional construction. However, the matter is of course well known by the tax minister that SKAT is not allowed to look through the windows, and I quote from the bill: "In the case of private checks, it is not the private citizen who gets the work done that is subject to the supervision of SKAT, but the company which provides the work and which has statutory obligations to register and collect, declare and settle taxes. It is also thought-provoking that so far there has been only one complaint about the controls. I guess it's not exactly an expression of the total uncontrolled running around in people's gardens. When I had the opportunity last week during Parliament's Question Time to ask the tax minister how to carry out the checks when they are not allowed to go through the garden gate, but supposedly to stand out on the road and shout in to the workers who walk around the scaffolding, the tax minister replied that it was not surprising that the current government has a different attitude to the control of social dumping than the previous government. And in that, the tax minister is right. This is not particularly surprising, but nevertheless very disappointing. Because what are the consequences of this bill? Here again I would like to quote from the tax minister's own paper: it may give rise to more undeclared work. That is what is called a modest assessment of the negative consequences. This is also why such a bill is being submitted for consultation, and perhaps it is a little thought-provoking with the consultation answers that have come from both the Danish Construction and the Crafts Council, which is usually some of them that a bourgeois government listens to. Among other things, it's called... in the hearing of the Crafts Council, that they find the spectacular fact that the government accepts with the bill that there can be more undeclared work and that it is a step backwards if the law is passed. Danish Construction states that despite some concern about the powers introduced in 2012, it recognises that black and illegal work was and is a problem which undermines not only the Danish model but also the law-abiding part of the construction industry and that the overall package introduced in 2012 has had a beneficial effect on the black and illegal work on the villa roads. It is not to be understood that this package has increased it, but rather that it has helped to prevent some of the work that is going on. The main argument for the tax minister is that this will strengthen citizens' legal certainty. But when you look down through the bill, you get the impression that the only ones whose legal certainty will be strengthened are the companies that cheat and those who are affected are the companies that are in charge. As one of the last points, I would like to say that one of the arguments from other parties in this Chamber has been that SKAT must then ask for a court order. And there we have also tried to ask the tax minister to answer how this could be done, and even in this context it has not been possible to get a clear impression of it. On the contrary, the Minister of Taxation says that this must be addressed to the police. Finally, I would like to say that in the original draft law there were two other elements that the Minister of Taxation wanted to abolish, namely signage by contracts of more than DKK 50,000, and that SKAT must have the opportunity to ask about the workers' social security number. This has now been tampered with because the Danish People's Party is opposed to it. It is therefore thought-provoking that the new draft law even refers to the fact that the very same signage that was sought to be abolished is one of the arguments for SKAT to be able to carry out their controls. To be honest, it seems that we are fishing for something that fits into a fundamental issue, and the result will be more undeclared work, more social dumping, and that is why the Social Democrats are obviously opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135809	I am a little surprised at the remarks made by the Socialist rapporteur here, because earlier this day we heard various Socialists say that it was a fundamental principle of Danish law that a court order should be obtained when you have to have some information about PET and all sorts of other things. But when it comes to something as fundamental as going into people's gardens, there is no need for a warrant, so the authorities should just be allowed to trample in. What's the difference between the different types of warrant?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135839	The difference here is, of course, that this is part of SKAT's control, which they often carry out with both the police and the Labour Inspectorate, and which is not a control of the citizen, as I also quoted from the bill which lives on the private grounds, but a control of the workers running around. The consequence is, of course, that it undermines part of the law-abiding work that is going on, it leads to more social dumping, something that we should combat and not relax.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135903	Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135904	The logic, the reasoning, must then be that the rights of ordinary people are being ignored a little here, because there is a higher sacred purpose. But that must also mean that in every respect the police and other public authorities do not need a court order, that is, because there is a greater purpose, and that we have some individual rights, and they are firmly established in the Constitution, are not relevant to the higher sacred purpose. Does this mean that the Social Democrats are now losing out on the fact that you do not need a court order to get in, for example? in relation to private property or private information?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029135943	No, it's not. And with regard to the last, as Mr. Brian Mikkelsen says, in relation to the police's ability to enter people's private property, in other words, through the door, this is not about the individual citizen, but it is about the workers who are running around. In addition, the Factory Inspectorate has the same opportunity to go in and prevent a potential accident at work if they see it happening. This is not about the control of the individual citizen, but about the control of the workers running around on a professional building on private property, and as Dansk Byggeri says, it has proved to have had an effect in terms of reducing undeclared work and social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140016	This has led another three to ask for brief comments. The first is sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140024	Sometimes we have to weigh different principles against each other. That's the way it is when you make politics. And it is difficult to understand it differently from the fact that the Social Democrats believe that it is more important that tax collection is always and no matter what is one hundred percent effective, even when it comes to the authorities being allowed to go into people's private property. And frankly, I don't understand that distinction between the home and the garden itself. So, for those of us who live in a house and thus have a garden, it is a distinction that is quite indifferent. Because when we cross the threshold of our cadastre, we're home. We're as much home in our garden as we are when we're in our living room. So I and a lot of other people do not want authorities to be able to come on our ground without a warrant. The Social Democrats do not think this is important, and I find that very regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140138	Yes, and there we have a fundamental discussion with each other, and that is fair enough; that is what politics is all about. I'm quoted for what the law is really about, and it's just not about control of you here. I'm not talking personally about or talking directly to Mr. Kim. Joachim B. Olsen or about the citizen who gets the work done, but this is about the control of the company and the employees running around on what is professional construction. And that is precisely to prevent the small master craftsman from being out-dated by someone else who has employees walking around to pay and working conditions, which are far beyond what the agreement in this area provides. I fully agree that the Liberal Alliance considers this to be merely a competitive advantage, but there are others who believe that it is reasonable that there are rules of the game on the Danish labour market which are respected and therefore also need to be controlled.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140233	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140236	This then gives me the opportunity to state that there is nothing illegal in getting work done by a company which has no agreement. There's nothing illegal about that. It is illegal if taxes are cheated or if there are rules that are not respected in relation to the safety of construction itself. That would be illegal. And there, as the rapporteur also said, the Factory Inspectorate has the opportunity to control it. However, the fact is that the Social Democratic Party obviously considers it more important that tax collection is always one hundred per cent effective, even when tax collection collides with principles which we consider to be much, much more important and which are a much greater source of our prosperity in addition than tax collection is, namely, that we have private ownership in Denmark and that it is respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140331	I would remind you that in the second round of short remarks you have only 30 seconds. It is only in order for all of us to be able to keep to our time limits. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140341	Well, I totally agree with that argument, as sir. Joachim B. Olsen now argues where he says quite clearly: 'Well, that is not illegal, and therefore there is no need to control it.' And there we just basically disagree. The Danish model, which now also fills a lot in the American election campaign, is precisely about the fact that we have some rules that have been agreed by the social partners and that there is an interaction between the social partners and the state, also in terms of carrying out controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140413	Then the next for a brief comment is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140422	One might think that the rapporteur believes that private property only applies in houses and not in gardens. For the rapporteur says that you are not looking through the windows, so there should be no problem with private property. So I would like to clarify whether the Socialists believe that private property also applies in people's gardens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140442	I do not really think we have any reason to disagree on that. So, in the law that is now in force and that one wants to abolish, it is precisely about SKAT's ability to enter private property. And in the sense that this is private property, I guess ownership also applies there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140458	I should just like to say, for the record, that you do not have to press for the second brief remark. Then you run the risk that technology will not catch, that you want it. So when you want to speak on the second brief remark, you do not have to press on. That is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140517	It is nice to clarify, because then it fits very well with the concern that I have, namely that the Socialists have little respect for private property. Because this is not the only place where private property was undermined under the previous government. This was also the case when the planning law was revised to build general housing. And that is just a sign that it is a right that is not taken very seriously by the Socialists. You water it, first for one and then for the other, and then you say you don't look in the windows, so it doesn't matter. So is it because, generally speaking, private property is not very interested that it is repeatedly watered down?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140559	If we now look at what this case is about, then the argument on the part of the tax minister for abolishing this is that there must be an appropriate and proportional balance between the tools that SKAT has and the purpose they serve. And if you read Dansk Byggeri's hearing answer, you can see that they just write that there is an appropriate balance between the problems of undeclared work and illegal work on the villa roads and the tools that SKAT has had available to carry out checks since 2012. And I quite agree with Danish Construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140628	Mrs. Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140635	Thank you. Social dumping is such a rubber concept that everything can be put into it. This is certainly the case for the previous government, it can be said that it is. So it'd be nice if Mr. Bailey... Jeppe Bruus just wanted to clarify which parts of social dumping have been effectively combated by SKAT having had the opportunity to enter people's gardens without a warrant.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140700	I'd love to. It is the case that a small master craftsman is run out by a competitor who has workers walking around who receive less pay on worse working conditions than is actually attributed to the agreement applicable to construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140716	Mr Merete Riisager, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140719	That was very accurate. Wage and working conditions. Will the rapporteur not explain to me how it can be the task of SKAT, in other words the tax authorities, to combat matters relating to pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140738	Yeah, I'd love to. After all, it is about whether the companies that carry out the work have control of the employees' affiliation and whether they have the relevant registration in Denmark. We can of course look at the checks that SKAT has carried out that for the foreign companies that are connected to the RUT register, they did a check back in 2012 of 75 companies. More than half of the companies had challenges compared to their own registration, and part of them were not even VAT registered in the home country. So, of course, there's a connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140805	There is another one that has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140813	What brings me to ask a question is sir. Jeppe Bruus's answer to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's question earlier. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen said, which is factually quite, quite correct, it cannot be argued that it is not illegal in Denmark to work without an agreement with the LO trade union movement. And yet that is what Mr. Jeppe Bruus, that there were probably two opinions on that, and that was Mr. Jeppe Bruus disagrees with Mr. Jeppe Bruus said that it was part of the Danish model that the police and authorities were involved in enforcing the relationship which he thus disagreed with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen about. But can't we just have sir? Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140902	However, it was a very long explanation of what I have been saying and not said or meant and not meant. I myself have worked with the Danish model in practice, and the whole basis of the Danish model is precisely that we for example. It is not a statutory minimum wage, but it is the social partners who decide that question in negotiations and through agreements. This is, of course, part of the strength of the Danish model, some of what we want to preserve and defend, and some of what the Liberal Alliance is less busy preserving and defending.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029140935	Then what is the reason why Mr. Jeppe Bruus and the Social Democrats are so stubbornly fighting for SKAT as an authority to enter people's gardens to control, including among others. What's going on, sir? Jeppe Bruus calls social dumping, including whether people have an agreement when Mr. Jeppe Bruus has just acknowledged that it is not illegal to have a job without an agreement and that, of course, it is not something that the authorities should check if you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141005	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141008	Well, there's a very close connection here. Therefore, those companies that do not have control of their tax situation, which do not have proper registration, who do not have control of their working environment, do not have control of the pay and working conditions under which employees work. As far as Denmark is concerned, with the Danish model, the struggle for agreements lies with the social partners. I fully agree with that. However, the reason why we have done the joint administrative work between the police and SKAT and the Labour Inspectorate is precisely to combat some of the companies that compete with others by having worse conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141045	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus, there are no further brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141056	I can start by saying that in the last session of the Danish People's Party, together with the other bourgeois parties, we were co-sponsors of a motion for a resolution which was precisely about removing the possibility of SKAT entering private property. So it is probably not surprising that I can already reveal that we in the Danish People's Party can support this bill, which is precisely about removing SKAT's permission to enter people's gardens without a warrant. The reason for removing the rule is quite simple, of course, that we think it is a rather far-reaching power that has been given to SKAT. That is not to say that the SKAT should not still be allowed to check whether, for example, it is possible to do so. is work on a land register which is quite natural but they only need a permit like all other authorities. We think it is a little too far-reaching for people to be able to go into other people's grounds in this way. Then I would also like to make it clear that there are, of course, other ways of exposing fraud and undeclared work. Among other things: I'm gonna need a CVR number on the company cars. Craftsmen must put up signs in front of the ground they are working on if it is a sum of more than 50,000 DKK. So there are other ways to get to grips with before entering people's property without a permit. What is crucial for the Danish People's Party is that there should be a balance between the powers of control that you give to an authority, the objective you want to achieve, and then the legal certainty of citizens. We simply believe that this is a too far-reaching instrument which is not in line with what we want to achieve. Then there is another reason that I think is really important, at least important for the Danish People's Party. That is that it is not in respect of section 72 of the Constitution, which I would like to read out. It says: "The house is inviolable. House investigations, seizure and investigation of letters and other papers, as well as breaches of postal, telegraph and telephone secrecy, where no law provides for a special exception, shall be carried out only after a court order. In other words, the starting point of the Basic Law is that the dwelling is inviolable unless a court order is issued. Then I am in favour of making some specific exceptions in legislation, but I think that the important and fundamental thing is that the constitution is more important than the powers of the SKAT. We do not think it is a special exception or that there is a good enough argument behind allowing SKAT to make use of this option. Then I would say that there is, of course, a real problem with undeclared work and fraud, in that companies are not, of course, companies if it is black work or people can fraudulently go in and do work on a ground where, according to my opinion, SKAT should then have a permit to go in. And I would like to take part in looking at whether, for example, we are going to be able to do something about it. could make it so that they could get a court order or another authorisation quite quickly. Because it is clear that if they first come out and see that there is fraud and have to go back to the judge, then this crew of illegal employees is gone before they get back. So it is clear that there may be an argument that one listens to, that SKAT must be able to get this permission quickly so that they can move out. But we just think in principle, and this is a discussion on principles, that the provision of the Constitution in section 72 is more important than the need for the SKAT to control. That is why we can support this bill which abolishes that power.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141429	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141437	Well, I have also read the resolution tabled by the then opposition, including the Danish People's Party. After all, the rapporteur himself mentions this with a court order. We have, of course, had occasion to discuss this with the tax minister, and the tax minister refers to the police. Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that it should be possible for SKAT and that it should be easy to do. Can the rapporteur explain to us how the Danish People's Party feels about the reality of SKAT being given the opportunity to obtain independent judicial decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141515	If the SKAT has a reasonable suspicion that there is fraud on a ground, then I see no problem in obtaining that authorisation either. Where the problem may be is that to some extent it is also about the pace at which it can be obtained. It is clear that if you come and experience that someone is building an illegal carport, and then you only get the permit a few days later, it is finished, or it is jacketed away. So there is, of course, a natural challenge in that if you're gonna get this permission, it's gonna have to come relatively quickly, so you can get in after all. But we just think that the important thing and the principle in this matter is that you should of course have a permit. In other words, private property is inviolable according to the Constitution, and we just do not think that the balance between control powers and people's right to have their private property in peace is in keeping with each other. And that is why we think it is important for SKAT to have that authorisation before entering the site.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141601	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141605	That is why I asked the tax minister how this will work in practice in relation to court orders. Then the tax minister replied that the police can get warrants, but that SKAT can't get warrants; SKAT can go to the police. With this in mind, and with what is the main argument for the support of the Danish People's Party for this deterioration in the control of social dumping, can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not once again try to explain to us what this could be like? And how is this comparable to the answer given by the Minister of Taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141640	Thank you for the question, because it actually allows me to repeat what I may not have been in depth in my rapporteur's speech. But what I just think is important in this bill is whether you can ensure faster access, so SKAT doesn't necessarily have to go through the police, but maybe it can do it by other means. Because, as I said earlier in my reply, the pace is also part of the decisive factor. So I'm kind of on board if we can find a model in committee that makes SKAT get this permit faster, because it's not appropriate.I don't know if it takes several days or if it takes a long time, because then it's the gang who's been working illegally on a land, after all, and then you don't get caught people who don't pay their taxes or scammer or do black work. So if the Socialists want to help us in the work of the committee to look at how to ensure that SKAT can be given a permit quickly, then that will in fact only be beneficial, I think, and we are at least in favour of that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141726	The next short remark is Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141735	I think it is extremely regrettable when one knows that every day there are Danish companies that are being competed out of tasks by some who do not comply with Danish agreements or pay the tax they should pay, and when one knows that it seems that there are employees who are being pressured on their pay and working conditions, what we call social dumping, every day that the Danish People's Party is now helping to reduce SKAT's ability to intervene and stop it where there is a breach of tax legislation. And that's what the Danish People's Party does when you help the government with this bill. I think it is good that the Danish People's Party recognises that it will be more difficult for SKAT to check whether there is social dumping. If it's the case that the Danish People's Party can't get through with it, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær says here, that SKAT itself should be able to obtain a court order directly, will you change your mind and vote against the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141830	I would say that the principle is far more important in this matter than it does with the supervisory powers of SKAT. 'Cause I kind of agree with Mr. Jesper Petersen says that it is a pity when people are cheated either through black work, which outcompetes a company, or whether it is social dumping, where there are foreign workers working for wages that are far below what is reasonable, because we also think that we should of course do something about that. But above that, the basic law is just, and that is what is fundamental to us, and we think that this power is at odds with it and exceeds that power. And there it is just that I am appealing for a model to be found in the committee's work so that this permission can be obtained more quickly. It is clear, as I said to the previous speaker, that it is important that this happens relatively quickly, and I also assume that that is why the Social Democrats have said that you should not have the authorisation at all in order to move in quite quickly. And there I would just like to appeal to us to find together a model that, while respecting the provisions of the Constitution, could give SKAT some powers of control. Then I would say that the reason why this bill is, after all, rather narrow and that it is a package of legal certainty with only one measure, among other things. is that we in the Danish People's Party have made sure that the other things have come out precisely because we have a lot of focus on social dumping and undeclared work. But just one provision here is so fundamental that we do not think we should give SKAT that power.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141944	Sir. Jesper Petersen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029141947	I just think it's pointless for the Danish People's Party to take two of the three elements of this package that everyone would weaken the fight against social dumping, when it is precisely this opportunity to get in to control when there is a professional building, and could use it to ask for example. ID card. This possibility weakens when SKAT is no longer allowed to enter private property. Then I just think there is something interesting, because if it really was a violation of people, and if people saw it out there as a violation, i.e. that professional construction on their property was controlled by SKAT, like the Labour Inspectorate must, it could be that there were some Danes who in recent years, here, where the opportunity has been there, like would have complained about it and thought it was not right. But sir... Dennis Flydtkjær does not confirm that there have been one to two complaints about this power to SKAT all the time the power has existed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142053	Now you make it sound like SKAT can't control this at all, but they can sort of do that in the same way as they used to. I believe it was in 2012, that a law was passed that meant that you had to have a permit for it? And if you have a reasonable suspicion that something is wrong, I have no idea that it would be difficult to get that permission to enter the site. There is also the possibility that, as owner of the house, you can voluntarily grant SKAT permission to go in to check, and if you do not want to grant it permission, there might also be a reason why SKAT could consider whether there could be a reason why you would not allow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142126	The next brief remark is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142139	Thank you. First of all, just to clear a breach, it certainly sounds like a pretty big misunderstanding: the powers granted to SKAT back in 2012 when the then government made the changes here, are not and have not at any time been contrary to the powers of the Constitution. What I, on the other hand, would like to ask the rapporteur is that we have heard in a long election campaign day after day that the Danish People's Party was in trouble with both the trade union movement and for that matter also with the Social Democrats and all sorts of others in the fight against social dumping. And in the consultation answers received, the verdict on this roll-back is quite tough on the part of the trade union movement, on the part of the BAT cartel and, as such, also on the part of the craftsmen and Danish Builders. Danish Construction writes among other things. in one of the consultation answers, to which I would like to ask the rapporteur: Finally, the Danish Building Agency refers to the fact that the sense of justice of Danish citizens and construction companies that comply with the rules and pay tax and VAT deserves respect. Danish Construction does not find that home owners and craftsmen who bend the rules for their own gain deserve equal respect. What is the rapporteur's position on such a strong and significant point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142247	I would just like to start by commenting on the fact that I did not say that the basic law had been exceeded, because when I read the paragraph, I also read that a special exception could actually be made by law. I just don't think it's the spirit of the Constitution that, for a less important area, I think, bends the constitution. Then I would say that it sounds great when you say that this is an incredibly important tool, but I know that in a single case here in 2015 we have not revealed undeclared work or social dumping through this power. And then we are left with the principle: do you really have to indulge in the basic law in order to give a power that has not led to the unveiling of anything? I guess sometimes you have to evaluate the things you've set in motion. And when you've had this power for a long time, for several years, and it shows that you haven't once this year revealed any cheating, it might well be that you have to return to the constitution's provision that there should be a special exception. And I don't think the special exception has been met with this, at least in my opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142346	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142349	Once again, I have to say: no one has graduated the constitution. The Constitution has been fully followed. But can I have the rapporteur confirm to all of us in this Chamber, and for that matter also to all the citizens who sit out there watching the television screens, that he does not think that the fight against social dumping, that efforts to limit organised wage dumping, organised deterioration of working conditions are important enough to give the SKAT the powers that are necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142424	I can confirm that I think these things are extremely important for the Danish People's Party, but, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, control powers must be matched by the tools used in relation to the result that can be obtained from it. And here we have a power that has not led to anything throughout 2015. And then it's just that we're going back to the principle of whether this is a power you need, while at the same time it's a pretty insulting act in relation to the homeowners who can see that SKAT can go into their land, and there I just just don't think that the two things are in line with each other. But does this mean that the fight against social dumping is not considered important? No, of course that does not mean that, but if you have a power that is quite far-reaching and that does not lead to anything, then we owe it to the people and the houseowners out there to reconsider whether or not there is a need for it at all. And that's where we in the Danish People's Party just assess that there's no need for this power. But yes, the fight against social dumping and undeclared work is incredibly important just with tools other than this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142518	The next brief remark is Mrs Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142528	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær says on the platform that when there is only one point left in the Legal Security Package 1, it is the Danish People's Party's merit, and that is entirely correct. In this context, of course, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. Given that the rapporteur believes that SKAT should be instrumental in combating social dumping, does the rapporteur agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that SKAT as an authority must combat social dumping which has to do with pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142606	I think these are quite excellent tools that have been pulled out of this bill. I would like to sum it up, because the draft law does not make it clear what it is. One thing, of course, is that today we have a provision that says that there is enterprise work for a value of more than DKK 50,000, there must be a sign in the garden so that you can see who works there. The curious thing about this is that the Left Government wanted it removed as an administrative relief for the industry. But we can see in the consultation answers, for example. in Dansk Byggeri's hearing answer that you actually think it's a pretty good idea that we have this and that they don't want to get rid of it. And quietly said, it's probably a little stupid to remove something on behalf of the construction industry that really seems to be a fantastic idea. Then you can question whether you think it is SKAT's job to do so, but it will be easier to see if it is illegal work that is going on there if, after all, we can see who it is. If there isn't a sign standing out at the site so you can see who is working, then perhaps there is also a reason why the SKAT must ask for the approval in order to be able to go in and control it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142701	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142705	I would like to clarify this once more, because it is very important, also for the work that is being done with legal certainty, and also to get the SKAT under control, which is, of course, an organisation in crisis. Of course, we are discussing a great deal in the blue circle that SKAT is currently having a real difficulty in managing its tasks. Therefore, it is also important to clarify what is the task of SKAT. So would the rapporteur not like to clarify whether he believes that it is a task for SKAT as an authority to combat social dumping, which does not have to do with taxation, but which has to do with pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142741	First of all, let me say that Mrs Merete Riisager says that this is a measure of legal certainty. I'd just like to deny it is. I do not think there are any builders who think that it is a legal problem that they should put up a sign in the garden where they work. On the contrary, they themselves think it is a good idea. So I have some doubts as to why it is actually included in a legal certainty package when the industry itself thinks it is a very good idea. As far as I am concerned, it is not just social dumping, but I think it is clearly the task of SKAT to catch people who do not pay their taxes. It is therefore a fundamental task. I understand from the Liberal Alliance that they don't think it's SKAT's job to find out if people pay the taxes they have to pay. And I just think basically logical that it is. That is why, of course, it is also important that we know who is working so that we can get to them in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142825	There are two more who have asked for brief comments. First, it's sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142841	Thank you. When you as a private person want to build a new carport, you also invite the Danish labour market into the matrix. And so we have a clash between, on the one hand, private property rights and the inviolability of property rights and, on the other hand, the rights of an employee in a workplace. And that is the balance we are discussing now. In this context, I assume that we agree that the Factory Inspectorate must have access to a private site in order to strengthen workers' working conditions. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029142922	I understand that the questioner says that, like all authorities, if you have invited some workers in yourself, you have to accept that you can go into your property. But as a homeowner, you also have the possibility that you voluntarily choose to say that SKAT can come and see if the workers who are on your property are now paying the tax they are going to have to pay. You can have an interest in that. I wouldn't mind if it were on my property. But I would prefer to have the opportunity to resign, and the principle of this is that it is the provisions of the Constitution that are more important than the powers of SKAT to enter a ground without a court order. And I understand that we have a disagreement in principle, and that is fair enough. There are a lot of exceptions to the Basic Law, where the Factory Inspectorate is then one of them, and it is a slightly different consideration that is in it. Because after all, people get hurt. There may be some shielding and other things that are not right, for example. in relation to a scaffolding or something else where people can really be disabled or even die if things go wrong. And there I think there are some other considerations than the SKAT's desire to be able to go in and see if anyone is doing black work. I simply think it is too far-reaching for SKAT to be allowed to go into people's gardens without a verdict.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143025	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143029	Thank you for your answer. So when Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær to my colleague Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says that this is a less important area and that it should not therefore be granted access to a private garden by this authority, i.e. SKAT, because Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær believes that the control of undeclared work is a less important area. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143053	Now it will be like a controversy, trying to be bickered in the Parliamentary Chamber. But yes, I do think that people's lives and health, lives and limbs, or whatever they call it, are more important than the consideration that SKAT can go into people's land without getting a permit first. So yes, I'd like to confirm that. I think it is more important that people have a safe working environment, and I think that if the SKAT suspects any cheating, you should have a permit to go in and check it just as before 2012. That does not mean that I think it is okay for people to make fraud or social dumping. It just means that I think that the basic law should be based, which says that private property is inviolable, and that is why, of course, one must have a permit if one is to enter and control something.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143131	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten for a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143137	I trust that the rapporteur agrees with me that if the supervision of the SKAT is to be carried out effectively, it must take place quickly and without warning, and now we have established in several answers that it is the police who are being equipped with judicial orders. Is it simply not obvious that if the SKAT is to be able to do this without warning and quickly, it is a very difficult process to first have a warrant through the police? After all, we are at risk of losing the moment. There is, in fact, an opportunity to get a warrant, but it is still the police who have to have it, because it is not SKAT that is equipped with a warrant, so you are really making the process more difficult. And I do not understand why the rapporteur of a party that has social dumping at the top of the agenda will help to weaken the fight against social dumping, the fight against tax fraud, VAT fraud and what else might be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143244	The crucial thing for the Danish People's Party is the balance between control powers and legal certainty for the individual, and there we just don't think one is equal to the other at this time. Then it is true that there is the specific problem that the pace is important in these matters. If you come out and experience that something illegal is going on, at least something supposedly illegal, then you should move out quickly, because otherwise they will be gone before you get past the various agencies. I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and in reply to previous authors, that we would very much like to look at the committee's work to see whether it could be done in a way that would allow the SKAT itself to obtain these court orders or otherwise be able to obtain these permits more quickly. The important thing is that you have to have a permit before you do, because you have to respect people's property rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143329	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143332	The rapporteur continues to refer to this balance between the fight against social dumping and the fight against tax fraud and so on. It is strange, of course, when you see that there are also quite a lot of other authorities which have a means of control, even without a court order, to check on private companies and on private grounds in general. There has been mention of the Labour Inspectorate, and one could mention the food authorities, fisheries control, etc. etc. So why exactly is this the case in the fight against social dumping and tax fraud?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143422	I do not understand why we are trying to create a controversy in terms of a balance between supervisory powers and then legal certainty, because that is what we should like to see in very many areas. And why else would the limit be set to the garden? Why not inside the house? Well, after all, somebody thought it was too much, but that the garden wasn't too much. I also think the garden is too much. But if there is no limit to that, then why not end up with some police state where you can just do what you want, if you are authority and are completely indifferent to citizens' rights? It's to reveal a lot of things, and then it has to be in the interests of all of us. So, of course, there is a limit and a balance that one has to find, and that is where, in the view of the Danish People's Party, one has just exceeded the limit in relation to that balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143503	No further brief comments have been requested, so thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. And then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143510	In 2012, the previous government implemented legislation that allowed SKAT to enter private gardens without prior court order on suspicion of undeclared work. That worried the Left at the time, and it has done so ever since. That is why we are now proposing to remove SKAT's access without a warrant. The rationale of the then tax minister, Thor Möger Pedersen, was that there was nothing to hide, what was the problem? This is not a line of thought that we in the Left share, and I therefore very much welcome the fact that this proposal will be the first in the legal certainty package I. The Left saw the actions of the then government as a violation of private property rights. This was just one of several ways in which the previous government subjugated private ownership to great concern for the Left. And this is because private property is a so-called negative right to freedom, that is, a right that can be enjoyed without violating the rights of others to the same. Another negative right is, for example, the right to freedom. freedom of expression. I can speak without preventing others from expressing themselves. It can also be religious freedom, freedom of assembly and therefore private property. I regard negative freedoms as universal and as human rights. They should not simply be violated in a community governed by the law, because we need to know whether a terrace is now being made with or without VAT. That is why this is a question of rights; it is a question of whether or not we want to undermine the fundamental rights of a democracy. And private property helps to describe the negative freedoms and thus what a democracy is. Some might think that when you abolish the extended powers of SKAT, it will do buyers and suppliers of undeclared work a service, and that is not the intention. Black work is not in order, but it does not justify a violation of private property. If the authorities suspect anything illegal, they'll have to get a court order. On behalf of the Left, I must inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143737	Thank you. Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143745	Now we have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say from the platform that they will work to ensure that SKAT has easy and quick access to a court order. This is one of the things the Danish People's Party intends to work on in the committee work. Then it is appropriate to ask the rapporteur of the Left, since the Left has accepted the wish of the Danish People's Party to withdraw two things from this bill, whether the Left is also ready to respond to the Danish People's Party's request for speedy and easy access for SKAT to be able to obtain a court order. And how does the rapporteur of the Left imagine that it will be possible to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143824	I have also heard the speech by the Danish People's Party, and I am open to looking at how such a thing can be done. Is that also a request from the Socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143833	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143837	But since I am asking the tax minister and now I repeat the question I put here earlier, so it should not be a surprise how it is going to work in practice in relation to court orders, then the tax minister says: the police can get court orders, but it cannot; SKAT must go to the police, and there must be serious reasons why you can get a warrant. So is not the wish of the Danish People's Party really a blow to the air, because the Left has no opportunity to accommodate it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143904	Now I understand what the Socialist rapporteur has said in that way, because there is a court order, because you actually have to get the police over because we are a community of law in Denmark and because we want to maintain Denmark as a community of law, you cannot do it quickly. Is that how I should understand the question? Moreover, I did not get an answer to the question that I myself sent back, which I do not need to receive either, because you are not obliged to answer. But I would say that I do not understand how these things are not connected. Well, I haven't laid down on anything, but I don't close any doors either, so I'd like to look at what the Danish People's Party is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143937	Sir. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029143941	After all, the legislative proposal here is a clear deterioration in the fight against social dumping and against the pressure on employees. One of the methods then to do it just a little better would then be what the Danish People's Party says that SKAT could get a warrant directly, what they can't do today, because the principle is that the police should go to the judge. I would actually assume that the Left rejected it, but would just follow up and get a clear answer from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, i.e. whether it is something that the Left will help change so that SKAT can go straight to a judge and not go through the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144025	This bill is about guaranteeing people's That is what is fundamental, and it is also true that it is to put something earlier, because it is to say that human rights are more important than other rights, and that is fundamental in a democracy. That's what the Left thinks. I do not want to dwell on exactly what we are doing, but I am open to a committee procedure where we listen to each other, because I think it would be strange if I were not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144050	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144057	No, this bill is about the fact that the Left thinks we can score some points, that we stop having a control where you have to go into private property and control professional construction, and it's been all along. In practice, no one is dissatisfied with the existence of this system. The employers on a string say in the consultation answers that they think it is excellent that this legal basis has been with SKAT. Almost no one has complained about what I think there has been a single complaint because a particular letter had not been given to a citizen in time. However, there is a broad acceptance that, as my colleague said before, if the labour market has been invited into the labour market, it must also be checked whether black work is being done or whether there is a breach of the health and safety rules. Why would the Left in this way weaken the fight against social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144138	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144140	After all, it is not the seas of employers or workers, it is the citizens, and they are not the consultation parties. I think I should be speaking on behalf of the citizens, because I am elected by the citizens, and these are the people I want to represent, and for me it is fundamental that we safeguard their rights. I am aware that the Socialists can find all sorts of reasons for undermining private property, but I do believe that it is extremely important that we maintain negative freedoms and therefore it is important that we restore them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144204	Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144213	I understand that the rapporteur has been doing his homework and has learned all that about negative freedoms and all the other rights well enough and that the rights of the citizens are very much at the heart of the rapporteur and the Left. But now it is the case that we also have some authorities; we are making some legislation and the authorities are then set to control this legislation. It takes place in a very, very many areas. After all, there are very many authorities who have access without a court order to control the citizens of, I would have almost said, one end and the other end yes, I said so, but I almost said the other there! They have access to that, and so what I am asking is: why is it in this area that SKAT should not have the opportunity to check whether the legislation is actually being complied with, even without a court order? Does this not have to do with the fact that this can certainly be seen as a tool in the fight against social dumping, in the fight against unfair competition, because tax and VAT are being cheated on by some of the companies working in private gardens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144313	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144316	I mean, I don't quite understand the need to talk down to me as if I didn't know anything about negative and positive freedoms. What Enhedslisten is trying to allude to is that positive freedoms must weigh more heavily than negative freedoms, and I did not really think that was the position of Enhedslisten. In fact, I thought that the Enhedslisten placed enormous emphasis on the negative freedoms. This is what the previous government did was a violation of human rights, which are the negative freedoms, in order to guarantee some positive freedoms. For me, negative freedoms are more important, in other words, fundamental rights such as private property in this case, but they can also be freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144354	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144357	Yes, yes, but the various forms of freedom, negative or not, are of great concern to us. There is another thing that is very close to our hearts, and it is actually the fight against social dumping, also because if we are not able to fight against social dumping, it is really our entire welfare society and our entire legal society that are threatened by collapse. If people can run around in private gardens and work for what they want and cheat in VAT and tax, we really have a huge problem. And that is just what we are saying, and that is why we are asking: why is it precisely in this area that SKAT should not have the opportunity to carry out control activities? Is it not because there is a coincidence with the fact that the Left is not so keen on combating social dumping and apparently not on fighting fraud with tax and VAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144444	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144446	I can promise the rapporteur that I will fight for the negative freedoms wherever I can, because I find them fundamental in a society of law. But I can surely hear that Enhedslisten thinks it is more important to combat social dumping than it is to safeguard fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144500	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144508	I would also like to stay a bit in this whole debate on rights, because it is so sore, and if it were allowed to have coffee in its place here in Parliament, I would have got it wrong. Can I just, for the sake of good order, have the rapporteur confirm to all of us that the powers granted to SKAT by the then government back in 2012 were neither in breach of the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, nor, for that matter, a large number of other UN conventions? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144538	I haven't checked whether it's in conflict with UN conventions. But I remember teaching negative freedoms in Belarus and explaining all these negative freedoms and the division of power, there was a girl who raised her hand and said: these things are all in our constitution. Why, then, do we not have any democracy? Then I said that it depends, of course, on whether you live with them. It's kind of the same thing here. It may well be that you have a lot of fine words standing up, but it is therefore important that the rules of the game that are in a democracy are actually followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144607	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144610	The rules of the game in a democracy are, of course, that you must not cheat and that you must pay the tax you are obliged to pay. And that is why we have a number of authorities that are set to enforce that rules are followed. That is what the government of that time provided, that is to say, for SKAT to be given some powers to control. And that is what the Left today does not think is important enough to enforce any longer. Can I ask the rapporteur to confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144635	We have always opposed that bill because it violates private property rights and it violates fundamental human rights. And I understand that the Socialists do not take human rights very seriously, but the Left does.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144645	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144650	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is busy confirming that the legislation now being abolished was not contrary to the Constitution. Then I would ask the rapporteur to confirm that there was a reason why this legislation had to be introduced at all. It was just necessary to introduce a legal basis allowing SKAT to enter people's property without a court order. If it were the case that SKAT just did it without this legal basis, it would just be contrary to the Constitution. That is why this legislation had to be introduced. It was necessary to make this legal basis, which meant that SKAT should not take account of Paragraph 72 of the Constitution. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144733	It is quite true that this law was implemented because in the past there was a protection of private property which was disregarded for the sake of the political views of the red bloc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144744	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen did not wish to make any further brief comments. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144751	Thank you. I sit around a bit in the previous draft law, the original proposal, and it is described as not contrary to it under the European Convention on Human Rights as long as there is a right of appeal. Can the Left confirm that this is still the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144818	Now my argument is not based on the European Convention on Human Rights, because what I am aware of is the negative freedoms. These are the rights that I believe are fundamental to a democracy and for which I will always fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144830	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144835	The reason why I am asking is that the rapporteur himself uses it as part of his argument that what is the legal date is contrary to human rights and that is why it must be abolished. So can the rapporteur confirm that what is the legislation as it stands today is contrary to human rights, as the rapporteur himself argues?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144857	Human rights are, after all, more than what a convention says. After all, human rights are the negative freedoms. They are the ones that are fundamental to how we describe a democracy. That is what our whole democratic thinking is based on. These are negative freedoms such as freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, just as they are private property, because they are rights that can be enjoyed without violating the rights of others. And that's why we have to cherish them like that... they're so fundamental. I understand that the Socialists do not have the same need to protect the negative freedoms that the Left has.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144926	No further brief comments have been requested, thanks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029144943	It is probably not surprising when I say that the Enhedslisten is clearly opposed to this bill, which makes it difficult for SKAT to take action on social dumping, on the one hand, and on the other hand, against fraud on tax, VAT and taxes, and, on the other hand, not least in relation to construction activities on the villa roads. A traffic that has been particularly widespread north of Copenhagen and in North Zealand. We are, of course, pleased that parts of the original legislative proposal have been removed. These are requirements for signposting at construction sites and the possibility of requiring identification of those working where the SKAT carries out a check. But SKAT's ability to carry out control of professional construction on private grounds is still being proposed with this bill. And it is clear that those parties who believe that social dumping is a major and growing problem are, of course, opposed to this legislative proposal to reduce the control of undeclared work and social dumping, and also the employees' organisations have spoken against this bill. But it is quite interesting, as several people in this Chamber have pointed out today, that the employers of the construction works in the Danish Construction and Crafts Council are against the law. Danish Construction was skeptical of the opportunity given to SKAT to control construction activities in villa gardens, but writes in their hearing answer, and I quote: "But we must also recognise that black and illegal work on villa roads was and is a real problem. This undermines both the "Danish model" in the labour market and the law-abiding part of the construction industry and we have no doubt that the overall package has had a beneficial effect on the black and illegal work on the villa roads. And the Craftsman's Board follows up and calls this bill a retrograde step. So they are against the limitation of the scope of SKAT, which is now being implemented to expose cheating. The legal proposal is justified by the lack of legal certainty for citizens, but it has become clear to us through the answers we have received to a number of questions that we have asked that this is not the errand. That is clear, perhaps not particularly from the answer No. 94 but by others, that regardless of whether the inspections carried out by SKAT are being tested in a court before or after a visit, that possibility should not be granted to SKAT at all. Otherwise, there was an opportunity for both more legal certainty and continued control of cheating and social dumping. But the government's choice is clearly to reduce the possibility of exposing cheating and social dumping. So the government has chosen side: it is more important to protect those who cheat than to protect those who pay the price for cheating, namely those who have to set up in the unemployment queue because the work is taken over by some cheap Eastern Europeans, but also those who have to put up with pay and working conditions that are far below Danish standards and with less legal certainty for the employers who follow the rules, i.e. the law-abiding ones of the kind, and they actually exist. As far as legal certainty is concerned, it is also interesting that, despite hundreds of checks carried out, there has, as far as I have heard, been only one complaint in relation to the checks. In these cases of combating social dumping, it is interesting that employees and employers often stand together against the erosion of Danish pay and working conditions in parts of the labour market. In relation to this law, the employees' organizations, Danish Construction and the Crafts Council are agreed. In fact, we also see it in another area, namely the issue of cabotage, where employers' organisations and road hauliers, together with drivers and 3F, agree to combat social dumping and unfair competition. It has to be said that, in this area, it is the red parties which defend not only the interests of employees but also the interests of employers that there are arranged conditions in the Danish labour market, and one must wonder at the choices made by the government, because this affects both employees and employers in the construction sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145331	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145335	Thanks for the long speech, or it might have been quite normal length. I would just like to hear the rapporteur: usually the Enhedslisten is concerned about the negative freedoms such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion. Is it only in the area of private property that Enhedslisten believes that it is possible to compromise with the negative freedoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145356	No, we do not believe that we compromise either, that is to say that with SKAT's ability to control private property, private property is compromised. Actually, we can't see that. What is the purpose of the control that we are asking the SKAT to exercise is to have control over whether the land in question is cheated, and that is, of course, directed at a possible company working on the site and the workers working on the scaffoldings that are found to be on that site.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145428	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145430	What other places does Enhedslisten think there is no need for a court order until people's rights are violated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145440	However, it is not unusual for authorities to have powers of control which do not necessarily require them to hold a court order. I myself have pointed out in some of the questions that a number of authorities are equipped with supervisory powers, so that they can check without a court order. This is also done on private property in private companies. The Labour Inspectorate does this and Fisheries Control and Food Control. I think there are hundreds of authorities controlling without a court order. You have to do that in order to follow up on the legislation we adopt from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145516	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145523	Thank you. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentions that this bill will weaken the ability of SKAT to control fraud against VAT and excise duties. If that were to be the case, it would require that when a company starts work in a private home, it would have to move its entire bookkeeping to the workplace in question in order to check things like VAT and taxes. So I just want to know if it is the rapporteur's view that it is common standard in Danish construction that you move your entire bookkeeping out every time you start a new building, so it is out there that all invoices and bills are located.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145559	No, but it is a fact that many of the companies that are, of course, going to control here are companies that in some way cheat. That is what control is all about, and it is not least some of the foreign companies that we know work illegally and illegally in this society. So these are, of course, the ones to which control is directed, and we think that is a very good thing that one can do, and one should also be able to do so without a court order. Because this is something that sometimes has to go fast. You can't wait to get a warrant like that. You're supposed to have it through the police, and you're gonna judge the police just how necessary this is now? And get upstairs and get down here. Then the moment is lost, as it is called, and the workers have fled across all mountains. You actually experience at construction sites out there, where it happens that when SKAT, the police or the Labour Inspectorate comes to visit, a lot of people get busy getting out of the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145658	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145702	Now I specifically asked about what the rapporteur himself refers to, namely the alleged fraud in VAT and excise duties, which this proposal should prevent SKAT from controlling. Can the rapporteur not try to elaborate on how SKAT cannot now expose VAT and tax fraud on the basis that it is no longer possible to enter people's private gardens and find the invoices that should lie behind the rhododendron bush?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145731	Because you just don't get the opportunity to come in and check what it really is for a company that is present at the address. It is quite possible that we can then find that we can then check their books in their bookkeeping etc. It's probably at the home address. There's no problem with that. The aim is precisely to seize those companies which are not in order and where, especially for foreign companies, it is not possible to go to a home address and check the accounts. It may be in Lithuania or Poland, or it is nowhere, because there is a totally black economy in the projects in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145805	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145810	When the Enhedslisten was against the terror package and the biker law, was it an expression that Enhedslisten would protect bikers and terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145829	No, it wasn't. This was, of course, in the interests of legal certainty for those concerned. It is important in a community governed by the rule of law that people are equipped with security against the abuse by the authorities. That is just not the case here, to the best of my knowledge. This is an authority which must be able to check whether the legislation adopted here in Parliament actually works in practice and whether it is being complied with around it. That is also exactly what employers' organisations and professional organisations say in this area: otherwise unfair and unequal competition will be imposed if there are companies that cheat around. So it is part of the normal control company which, and I have pointed out what a number of Danish authorities are doing to ensure that the laws adopted are complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145917	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029145919	What would dress Enhedslisten in this case was that Enhedslisten stopped accusing us who are against SKAT being able to enter people's property without a court order, of wanting to protect people who want to cheat in taxes. Because that's exactly the same argument that Enhedslisten uses against us who want to lift this right that others have used against Enhedslisten when they were against terrorist law and bicker law. I really think it is a pity that we are falling to the same level of debate when what we are talking about here is how important it is to weigh different principles against each other. For us, it's not about wanting to protect people who want to cheat on taxes, but it's about standing on some legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150002	No, I am not accusing parties that I disagree with on this matter of standing for a principle that is thus defending cheating in tax. I'm just saying that's the result. It will be easy if you do not have a controlling authority and if you do not have a regulatory control that actually works quickly, alerted and so on, which is necessary in this case. The result may then be that VAT and tax are being cheated and that there is also evidence of social dumping. So no, no accusations against the politicians who stand for that point of view, certainly not, but I'm just saying that it can easily be the result if you don't give SKAT this control option.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150040	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150043	In our previous debate on Enhedslisten's question to myself, we both mentioned that the speed obviously means something when you go out and expose this fraud. I just want to hear Enhedslisten, who usually cares a lot about legal certainty: if we get a model out of committee work that allows you to get this approval quite quickly, could it not be an idea to vote in favour? Then, of course, there is a better balance between the legal certainty of citizens and the need for this to be done quickly, of course. We in the Danish People's Party fully agree that it should not take several days before you get such approval, because then those who cheat are far, far away and perhaps back in Eastern Europe, or where it may be they come from, and they may have received cheaper wages up here. But I just want to know if Enhedslisten could imagine voting in favour for the sake of legal certainty if we could find a model that would allow you to get a court order quite quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150141	Sure. Many of the questions we have asked actually go in that direction. We would like to help ensure a greater degree of legal certainty if we do not weaken control of social dumping. So if it can get out of it in some way during the committee work, then it is really fine for us, and then we want to take part in it. I just have to say that of the answers we have received so far to our many questions and we will of course ask more during the committee work it has become clear to us that that option is not provided. I think the tax minister is relatively clear in his answers and I do not see any possibility of going along that path, but if that is possible, we are fully in favour of it. Then we would like to help raise legal certainty... it just must not go beyond the control of social dumping and cheating on tax and VAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150227	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150228	Thank you for that answer. I think it is worth trying to get the drill out of committee work if, after all, in a wider circle in the Folketing, you can find each other, so that in the great area of conflict you can end up with a model that you can live with. What I hear from the Enhedslisten rapporteur is what I heard in an issue that went the other way. There is precisely this balance between legal certainty and control powers. I also understand that Enhedslisten may be a little milder in the rhetoric compared to the time when questions were asked to me. You actually accept that if this approval can be obtained quickly, it's not a problem. Then there is precisely this balance between legal certainty and supervisory powers, but I am in favour of having the opportunity to control things, but there must be legal certainty for citizens at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150314	It's gonna be a bit of a repeat of what I said before. We are certainly interested in this if it is possible at all. I am not very optimistic at this stage, but if it is possible, then it can be done, and we will find out during the committee procedure. We are extremely concerned about legal certainty, and we have no doubt about that. The fight against social dumping is incredibly important and we do not think that there is the big problem here in relation to the control option given to SKAT in the old draft law, and that is why we are very sorry that it is being removed, but if it can be done in respect of a higher legal certainty than people think there is, then we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150352	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150402	In the Liberal Alliance, we are delighted every time we can stand on the platform of the Folketing and give a speech in relation to legislation that is Liberal Alliance policy. L 13 is such an example. In Denmark, it must be the case that authorities must have serious reasons for doing so if they require access to our personal trademarks. L 13 abolishes the possibility that SKAT can go directly into people's gardens to control without having a warrant. That's perfectly reasonable. On the other hand, it has been quite unreasonable that SKAT has been able to go directly into people's private property if, for example, his father-in-law has been visiting and he has been helping his son or daughter with regular rehabilitation. We can help each other, and we do not want to be suspicious by authorities that violate their powers. The initial legal certainty package 1 also contained two other proposals which removed the requirement for signs on construction sites and abolished the obligation for workers to show valid identification when checking by SKAT. This has been done primarily at the request of the Danish People's Party. In the Liberal Alliance, we can live with signs that show which company is building it is not an unreasonable requirement, but we are opposed to parties such as the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF using the tax authorities as a bridgehead in a battle to keep as much foreign labour as possible out of Denmark. SKAT has to control tax matters, nothing else. It is not the task of SKAT to engage in a struggle for wage or working conditions. Such struggles shall be conducted by the relevant authorities and by the social partners. This is precisely what is needed, namely that SKAT, as an authority and tax legislation, is used to promote a hundred seventeen purposes other than what is essential, namely to collect taxes in a proper and fair way, so that there is money for roads and hospitals, is an independent problem. I would go so far as to say that it is a disease that has rooted itself in the field of taxation and that is detrimental to the functioning of our tax system and to the legal certainty that citizens experience in the field of taxation. L 13 is an important step towards promoting legal certainty for citizens, and I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation for putting legal certainty on the agenda and encouraging us to take many more steps together. For L 13 should be a start. In the Liberal Alliance, we have proposed the introduction of a tax ombudsman. A tax Ombudsman must be on the side of the citizens when SKAT infringes its powers. We have also made a proposal to clean up SKAT as an organisation and simplify legislation. I look forward to presenting more and important legislative proposals with the Minister in this area. The Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150654	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150659	Thank you. Does this bill, in the opinion of the Liberal Alliance, mean less undeclared work or more undeclared work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150715	I now have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur meant social dumping or undeclared work. I find it hard to imagine that it will lead to more undeclared work. SKAT must control taxation and tax fraud, and SKAT will still be able to do so. If there are facts that seem suspicious and you suspect that tax fraud is taking place, then SKAT can obtain a warrant and investigate the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150746	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150749	When the rapporteur replies that, according to the Liberal Alliance, this will not result in more undeclared work, does this mean that all the hours spent by the SKAT to control private gardens have been useless?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150809	This means that, if you suspect, SKAT will have to obtain a warrant, and that can be done by SKAT if there are grounds for doing so. And that is what SKAT will do if there is justification for it. So in those cases where there is actually a reasonable suspicion, SKAT will obtain a warrant and then you will investigate the situation. But at the same time, it means that SKAT needs to think and not just go in without a warrant. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is a very important distinction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150841	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, the Socialists, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150843	With the answer that the rapporteur has just given to my party colleague, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, the comment in the hearing from Dansk Byggeri must be wrong. So does the rapporteur think that Dansk Byggeri is wrong or writes something that is not truthful when they write that, despite a certain concern when the power was introduced, Danish Building Agency recognises that black and illegal work on the villa roads was and is a real problem that undermines both the Danish model on the labour market and the law-abiding part of the construction industry, and • important that the overall package introduced in 2012 has had a beneficial effect on the fight against black and illegal work on the villa roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029150932	I am very much concerned with the tax experts who say that it is entirely possible for SKAT to have a real suspicion that there is systematic tax fraud, to obtain a warrant and to investigate the situation. Several tax experts have said that you can do so. That is absolutely possible, and that is what the task of the SKAT is. However, it is important for us to make it clear that a court order must be made, and it is also important for us to make it clear that SKAT should only deal with the tax issues. We disagree very much with Mr. Jeppe Bruus, who believes that SKAT should also deal with matters relating to pay or working conditions. That's not the job of the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151018	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151019	If I do not put words into the rapporteur's mouth, the rapporteur could of course do the same with the Socialist rapporteur. But let me just ask the question again very briefly: will this bill lead to more undeclared work on the villa roads, or will it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151039	I find it very difficult to imagine that it will, because at the moment of systematic cheating or suspicion, a warrant can be obtained. It is not difficult, it is not difficult, it is something that can be done, and it should be done if there is suspicion of tax fraud. But you should not do so if you have a suspicion of other matters that have nothing to do with SKAT as authority. It is very important to say that we need to clarify what is SKAT's task, especially in this time when SKAT is spreading over many tasks and therefore mismanaging its core task.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151116	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151119	Oh, I guess it's a core task for SKAT to control for black work and combat black work. I certainly hope that the Liberal Alliance agrees with the Enhedslisten. However, this is evident from the comments made on the draft law in the so-called summary table. It says directly: "The payment may give rise to more undeclared work and thus increase the tax gap. So it is not so much a question of what the rapporteur thinks or thinks. After all, you have to assume that those who are behind this bill are the star lawyers in the Treasury, and who else has been in on it know a little bit about what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151201	I turn now to the tax experts who say that it is possible for SKAT to obtain a court order if necessary and if there is a suspicion that systematic tax fraud is taking place. However, it is important to clarify and I do not put anything in my mouth when I say that earlier today the Social Democrat rapporteur stood here on the Parliament's platform and said that SKAT must also deal with matters relating to the working environment and pay relations, and we simply do not mean that in the Liberal Alliance. For the fact that SKAT is being sent out as a bridgehead in relation to things that have nothing to do with SKAT's task is contributing to the fact that the SKAT today works so badly when politicians use an authority that has some completely different tasks, for another battle that should not be fought by SKAT. SKAT must deal with tax matters, they must fight tax fraud. They should not work on things that the social partners should take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151305	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151307	I believe that cross-cutting action between different authorities can now be beneficial many times. That is also why the joint action by the Labour Inspectorate, the police and the SKAT has been established. This is precisely to check, among other things. social dumping. You come across a lot of things when you get out to a check, and if you just wear blinders and say that you have nothing to do with that, then you report nothing about it, then I think that you at all are undermining your control efforts. After all, there are legislative issues that also affect the labour market: holiday law, employment contract requirements, registration in the RUT, posting, and what do I know? And it would be crazy if the SKAT, if they come out and control and discover such conditions, then do not also do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151355	Exactly the position that has been taken on the whole red wing, namely that SKAT has been used as a bridgehead for other purposes, is, just as I said, a disease which means that SKAT has dealt with things other than that which is the core task. This means, among other things, that we are currently faced with some major, violent cases that are about the operation of the SKAT, which is about the important thing in the SKAT. This means that we have lost billions of dollars by paying out to scammers abroad. This means that we have not been able to recover tax in good time. This means a whole lot of relationships that have to do with the core task, that politicians have had a completely different focus with SKAT as authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151442	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151445	I have to say that I really think Mrs Merete Riisager is in deep water and has moved further and further out. The bill says in black and white that it will lead to more undeclared work. That's what you try to avoid, but it will. This must be acknowledged, even if Mrs Merete Riisager does not wish to do so. Dansk Byggeri's hearing answer is clear: It is believed that it is to the detriment of ordinary Danish construction companies, which will play according to the rules, to remove the legal basis for SKAT to carry out these checks. It refers to the sense of justice of Danish citizens and construction companies who comply with the rules and pay tax and VAT, and writes that they deserve respect. Why is one so disrespectful of the companies that play according to the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151541	The Liberal Alliance is certainly not disrespectful of companies that play by the rules. It is, I think, a rather strange accusation to make. Whether or not the Liberal Alliance is concerned with the well-being of companies, but we believe that it is entirely possible for SKAT, as I mentioned earlier, in cases where there is a legitimate suspicion of facts relating to SKAT, to obtain a warrant and to investigate the situation. Among other things: The tax expert Henriette Kinnen has said that it is perfectly possible to do so in cases where suspicion is believed to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151626	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151628	Yes, it is possible, but wouldn't Mrs Merete Riisager confirm that she has read and understood when the Minister of Taxation says that it is actually difficult for SKAT to get a warrant quickly to carry out this kind of control? You should not have any presumption or be able to see from the outside that you should go in here. We simply need to have a concrete, well-founded suspicion. And SKAT cannot go to court on its own, but must have the police do so on top of all the many other tasks the police have. That's why the tax minister says plainly that you can, but that it will be difficult for SKAT. Will Mrs Merete Riisager not acknowledge that this may be possible, but that it will make the work considerably more difficult?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151715	Now we are here discussing assessments. Sir. Jesper Petersen emphasizes Dansk Byggeri's assessment that it will be difficult. I stress that a tax expert says it is absolutely possible. Well, then we'll have to see how it gets. I believe that we must emphasise that this is absolutely possible and that it is really important to ensure that privacy is recognised. And it is also very important to send a signal about what is SKAT's task and what is not SKAT's task.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151746	No further brief comments have been requested, so thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we move on to the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029151802	Thank you for the floor. This proposal is, of course, about abolishing SKAT's authorisation to lawfully carry out checks on outdoor construction activities on private property. This means that SKAT must in future have a court order or a so-called right of appeal before they can access people's private gardens. Now there has been a lot of debate back and forth up here about legal certainty versus the fact that SKAT can enter private gardens. And I must not hide the fact that this has been a legislative proposal that we have had a great deal of doubt about in the alternative, because it is the consideration of private legal certainty against the need to be able to carry out checks that enable SKAT to recover revenue, on the basis of companies having acted in accordance with Danish legislation and agreements respectively. So we can follow very well the considerations of private legal certainty that have been and we think, from the outset, that we should be very careful to allow the authorities to enter the private sphere and to private affairs without a court order, and we would very much like to stand guard over that. On the other hand, as has also been discussed up here, there has been concern for the fight against social dumping and illegal work, which in fact is also a matter of legal certainty. It has been a difficult weighting for us and we have discussed it very carefully in the group, as I am sure others have, of course, done. But what we have also done here now is that we have involved our Members in a digital consultation to get an insight into how that weighting is experienced among Members and how they see the issues. What has been interesting here is that a major argument has been that the fight against social dumping and illegal work is not seen to compromise legal certainty to such an extent that it should change the rights of SKAT in this matter. There have been many different arguments, but one argument I have put forward is that it is the company and not the citizen who feels controlled and supervised without this warrant. We think it is positive that the bill also continues to work on signage and the cvr-number issue we are very happy to continue to say in the bill. It has also been important for us that both workers and employers' organisations should take a positive view of the current opportunities for SKAT. And so they feel as I read they hear the hearing answers that the current legislation strengthens their legal certainty in terms of protecting against illegal competition. Again I would like to say that now there have been some talk up here, and Danish Construction has been mentioned a lot, but I would also like to refer to Danish Construction. I would point out that they write that they have 6,000 member companies and they have not received any negative member reactions since 2012 when this was introduced. This is a good and pragmatic arrangement, which SKAT uses responsibly when carrying out checks, and checks are carried out only outdoors when there is visible professional construction activity. But, of course, continuing to be responsible on the part of SKAT is important and we can only support that here. According to the Ministry of Taxation, the authorisation of checks in private gardens without a warrant until the end of 2014 resulted in 747 checks with 869 different cases. There I agree with the Danish Construction Agency that it shows a clear justification for the scheme, to which is also the preventive element. It is also a considerable amount of money which has been called up in the light of the previous arrangements. Against this background, we look forward to the further work on the legislative proposal and therefore disagree that we should abolish the possibility of SKAT being able to go in and control in people's gardens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152207	There is no wish for short remarks? Someone has a wish. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152218	I am very pleased to hear that the alternative has had a major debate on this. But for me, this is a question of principle, because it is a question of negative freedoms, which are quite fundamental in a democracy, and it is a question of whether you can just violate them to check different things. So, what does it take to violate negative freedoms? In this context, has the alternative also made it clear that, in general terms, we are in favour of violating negative freedoms if we look at social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152256	No, we haven't. So, what we have been discussing here is the balance between what the original scheme is intended to do, namely that SKAT was allowed to enter gardens and then private inviolable property. It has been the two things that we have liked to hold up against each other, and then we have assessed what the damage is to the original system. Has there been any harm? And there is our assessment that the positive application of the law here wins for us in relation to private legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152329	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152331	Now ownership is not inviolable when you violate it. But I would say that it turns out that there have not really been any cases on the basis of the checks that have been carried out, so it may well be that SKAT has had the opportunity to go in, but they have not got anything out of it. Does the rapporteur think that is fair? I am basically very sorry that the alternative thinks that it is okay to violate negative freedoms. But does the alternative rapporteur think that, in view of the fact that it does not actually produce any effect in relation to several cases, it is still reasonable to violate private property rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152401	I find it hard to understand what's being asked. As far as I know, and that is also what I was just reading, there have been a large number of cases. I mean, now I don't remember the amount... that it's been charged $192.5 million. kr. on the basis of cases in 2012-2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152418	Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen from the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152420	It is interesting, moreover, that the answers to questions 278 and 372 show that the Folketing has not been able to know what the effect of this has been. Normally one always hears that the alternative will have openness and knowledge of the effect of the law, but there is a particular reply from the Treasury that there is no answer to that. But the reason why I am just asking a question to Mrs Josephine Fock now is that earlier this day I heard a debate down here in Parliament on PET and their access to passenger lists without a warrant. This is a matter that I myself worked on in the past when I was Minister of Justice, and during that debate today I was writing down what Mrs Josephine Fock said. And Mrs Josephine Fock said that it must be a fundamental principle of Danish law to obtain a court order. I would like to know why the established principle should not apply to the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152516	It shows exactly the dilemma, and that is exactly what I started by saying. Because that is a fundamental principle, and I fully agree with that must be the general rule. That is why, in the alternative, we have done the interesting exercise to ask what people really care about. And what I said was that what Members attach importance to is that the effort being made against social dumping and illegal work is not seen as something that compromises legal certainty. And the sample survey I've done in my hinterland, I choose to take note of and comply with this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152556	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152557	That's fair enough. Of course, the alternative can decide what they want. I just think that this is a strange form of attitudelessness in relation to principles. I just quoted what Mrs Josephine Fock said in the PET debate, that is to say that it is a fundamental principle of Danish law to obtain a court order. It was said explicite and black and white. But when it comes to the tax administration, they have some other unlimited powers, which no other authority has, to simply go into people's private property.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152634	Well, I can understand your question. I fully acknowledge it. That is a perfectly reasonable question, and that is also why it has been a very, very difficult weighting for us in terms of how we should deal with this bill. I just have to say that in relation to this bill right now, I choose to be guided by the fact that it is not seen as offensive to people, that they are visited by a tax person in their garden when they have a building, and that there have been no complaints about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152711	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152713	Thank you. When there are specific legislative proposals in this Chamber, one is forced as a party to take a stand on what one thinks of them. That's how it is. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur feels about SKAT as an authority. Does the rapporteur agree with the Liberal Alliance that SKAT should deal only with offences relating to taxation, i.e. tax evasion, undeclared work, etc., or does the rapporteur agree with the Social Democratic Party that SKAT must also combat other issues relating to pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152755	In other words, I think that the approach taken so far by SKAT has been fine, and it is fine for us, in relation to them, for example. It is also necessary to check whether people are subject to contractual conditions if there is an agreement in this area. Because I think it is important for Denmark that we have the Danish model with the social partners who make an agreement, and then I think it is good that you can control it when you are already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152824	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152825	Okay, so the alternative is in agreement with the Social Democratic Party that SKAT as an authority must not only deal with tax legislation, but must also deal with industrial relations, agreements which actually have to do with the social partners. This is what we usually call the Danish model, i.e. that the social partners agree on matters. But it also has to be controlled by SKAT as an authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152855	I think it is very positive that they are looking for compliance with all agreements, agreements and all legislation. I am fully familiar with the Danish model; it is the whole foundation of the Danish labour market, and it is really, really important that we continue to be able to maintain the Danish model and that it is not undermined on all sides. So I'm very supportive of that, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152914	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus of the Social Democrats if he is in his place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029152919	Thank you. Well, now there is no more nonsense from being repeated, but leave it from the Liberal Alliance. I would like to put a question to the rapporteur because questions have been asked about statistics, whether they have had any impact at all and so on. Does the rapporteur know the answer given by the then tax minister to the Tax Committee? 547? In the reply given by the Minister of Taxation, it is stated that from 1 July 2012 to 31 December 2014 869 checks have been carried out and that it is estimated that out of the 869 the tax legislation in 86 cases has been infringed, that 682 cases have been closed at that time, and that 101 cases are in progress, which, of course, shows that there are a large number of cases where this control has had an effect. In the light of the Ministry of Taxation's assessment, this has also had a concrete effect on the control of compliance with tax rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153030	I have my doubts as to whether it was a question or whether it was a comment. Well, I'm happy with the information.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153036	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153037	The question is simply that when you hear several of the liberal rapporteurs ask questions about whether it has had any effect at all and ask questions about statistics etc., then I just think it is appropriate to hear the rapporteur also whether the rapporteur is aware of the statistics in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153051	I'm sorry I didn't understand the question. But that's absolutely right, and that's also what I mentioned... now I found my paper here... that from 2012 to 2014 SKAT's controls against social dumping and undeclared work were reregulated for a total of 192.5 million. kr. So, yeah, I'm familiar with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153106	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153108	It is the case in Denmark, and that is what is absolutely fundamental in the Danish model, that agreements are private and that they apply only to those who have joined them. That is why it is also up to the social partners to ensure that these agreements are respected. There are clear rules of the game for that. That is why it is not for the authorities to check whether the agreements have been complied with. This is not a task for the authorities. That is what will be a breach of the Danish model, that is, if we say that it is the authorities that must maintain them. Then we might as well abolish shop stewards and all sorts of others and then just say that this is something the authorities are dealing with. I think we should be aware of this when we say from the point of view of the alternative that we support and that we know what the Danish model is about. We do not do this if we believe that the private contracts must be controlled by public authorities. This would be a fundamental breach of the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153211	Thank you for that comment. That's a point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153215	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153216	It is not a view that agreements in the labour market are private and apply only to those who have acceded to them. Are there any other private agreements that the Alternative believes the authorities should start monitoring? Authorities are responsible for legislation. They have an obligation to ensure that the legislation we agree in here is respected, not that private agreements out there are respected, unless it is a task for the courts. We have labour law, etc. that can take care of that. That's not the job of the SKAT. And if you move into that territory, you go into a fundamental break with the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153303	I would say that I think the Danish model is really, really good, and I think it is important when there are agreements in this area that they are then respected. That is my basic view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153314	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the alternative rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153324	Thank you very much, President. Like several other parties, we have also had thorough discussions about this bill. It has to be said that the great legal certainty package from the Minister has been shaved somewhat during its trip to the Folketing and actually now contains only one proposal, namely that SKAT should not be allowed to enter people's gardens. So it is not a huge discussion we have today, since this package has now become one small proposal. But the proposal is, in fact, of great symbolic importance. This can also be heard from the debate in the Danish Parliament today. Thus, there are both good arguments for and against abolishing this right for SKAT. In order to do so, as several rapporteurs have said, namely the inviolability of private property, the fact that you as a homeowner must be allowed to have your garden in peace. Even if that is the case, one might of course think that the fact that SKAT has a power which the police do not have, namely to be able to enter without a warrant, is a little special, of course, because the police cannot simply enter a garden if they do not have a court order. This is an argument which the Radical Left can well understand and which also touches some heartblood in my party, namely that the state should not just come thundering. Against that, the consideration is that we want to combat undeclared work and tax fraud. I would just like to say, in order to avoid perhaps a wave of questions from the Liberal Alliance, that for us this is not a question of collective checks and so on, it is a question of combating tax fraud. And that is where we believe, as the DF's rapporteur, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said that it is a little difficult to imagine in practice how to intervene against black work in a garden if you get that suspicion. I must say that I do not have the imagination to imagine that the SKAT would come to visit a garden if they did not have a concrete suspicion. But they can't wait for days, if I may say so, if they have to come in and prove it first. So there's a practical problem. Another thing that speaks for keeping this right for SKAT is, as the English will say: If it ain't Broke don't fix it. So has this de facto in the real world been any problem for any homeowner? No, not as far as we know. To this one might say: Well, has it proved to be of great importance to the SKAT? We don't know. That's probably the closest we'll get to the exchange we've ever had. There are various answers. From the spring we have an answer which shows that there has therefore been application, but it is, as far as I understand, in connection with the original legal certainty package, i.e. in connection with the signage and CVR number check etc. it has been possible to use it. And, you might say, thorns in the original legal certainty package have now been lured from the government's side. And as far as I can judge I have read the same questions and answers as everyone else, so I shall not in any way make myself wiser • we do not know exactly what this one legal basis, i.e. to go into gardens, actually gives and does not give, i.e. neither one way nor the other way. We do not know whether it is very important, nor do we know the opposite. So here we grope a little blindly It makes so radical the Left say: If it could be done to pursue the path which among other things. The Danish People's Party has proposed here: whether you could give SKAT the opportunity to obtain a quick warrant, that is, a quick access so that they would not have to go through the police and all sorts of other authorities and then a month after returning to the same garden, but therefore a quick and effective legal basis for entering, it would actually be a happy outcome to this, because then you could reconcile the sense of justice with effective tax control. I think that's the path we're going to pursue. Otherwise, from our point of view, we will probably be negative about the tax minister's proposals here, but I would like us to be able to get the various interests to go hand in hand with this issue, because that is actually what I hear a lot of parties around that they want to do. So it will also be our entry into committee. The questions we are going to pursue are whether we could get the last thistle out of the tax minister's so-called legal certainty package, because then we would end up with a better end result, which all parties could agree on, and we would be happy to help the tax minister with that if we could get away with it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153752	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153758	What we have to deal with today is the legislative proposal that is on the table, and I understand from this speech that the Radical Left will vote against it. In my view, it is regrettable that a party that I have always seen as a party that took legal certainty very seriously chooses to do so, because what you are doing is saying that legal certainty, private property, is less important than the fact that we have a completely effective tax collection. Although we do not even know how much money this has been given in the Treasury, we do not allow what to say about the doubt to benefit legal certainty, and we weigh it less than effective tax collection, if that is the case at all. I think it is a pity that the Radical Left is so placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029153906	For the Radical Left, principles are important, but reality is even more important, and that is why it was my statement from up here that there are two things we would like to clarify before we finally take a position on what we are voting here. We entered this Chamber with a negative starting point, but there are two things we would like to have examined on top of today's debate before we take a position. One is whether we can find a solution that will enable us to maintain both a high level of legal certainty and, at the same time, effective control. The second is, in fact, the question of whether this paragraph has been applied, because if it is an important instrument, there is another form of legal certainty that comes in here, namely that we can combat undeclared work, which at least helps to put my sense of justice in a way that makes me think that it makes no sense for the Community to give up its sense of justice for the individual. That's the balance we're in. But if it is completely irrelevant and nobody ever applies it here, then I agree with Joachim B. Olsen that then I would also say that the principle must come first. But it is also a very good principle, if I may say so, that we are testing the principles of reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154011	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen does not want any more brief remarks. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154017	Thank you for the speech and for the small reception that came after all. But I have to say that I am a little disappointed anyway, because I am a liberal, and so are the Radicals, just a little more purple than we are. It is my view, my basic idea, that we are based on some of the same principles: a very high level of respect for negative freedoms, in other words, respect for the existence of a democratic society that we are building on and that it is enormously central to a society governed by the rule of law. That is why I had really hoped that it would have been an even more positive response I had received from the Radicals. I had hoped that the human rights tab had been kept higher, that it had been weighted higher than positive freedoms. It is not because I do not understand that people are interested in combating undeclared work. We are also interested, but the question is by what means. The question is whether negative freedoms should be compromised in order to safeguard the positive ones. Can the rapporteur explain a little more whether it is in general terms that one considers that one can compromise on negative freedoms or whether it is in this one case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154133	I would really like to hope that the Left tax rapporteur might also be able to obtain the legal rapporteurship, because there are a large number of the freedoms that we value very, very much, which we think the Left is very much looking at when it comes to, for example. Terrorist legislation and the powers of PET and several other areas in which we have some serious discussions on these issues. Instead of teasing, however, I would actually rather seize the outstretched hand in the question and say that these are difficult balances. After all, there was a reason why the Left and the Radical Left were divorced 110 years ago. It is because we see ourselves not only as liberals but also as social liberals, and we think that it is the balance between the rights of the individual and the rights of the community that defines the entire Danish social model. Therefore, it is a difficult question, a small one can be said to be magical on how we should weigh the two things in a society like the Danish one. That is also why we find it difficult to take a position on it. I'll be happy to continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154230	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm did not wish to make any further comments. Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154236	Thank you. I shall be very brief. In contrast to several of the other authors, I am glad that the Radicals, like all the eggs, have had to turn, which have actually fallen into the bowl where it is so that they vote against this proposal. But can I ask the rapporteur just to confirm that? Because it sounded a little bit in the rapporteur's speech, as if we did not quite know what the effect was of, among other things. the powers that the government will now abolish. Can I just have the rapporteur confirm that, in fact, from 2012 to 2014, there was a recovery by virtue of the powers granted to SKAT back in 2012 of 192.5 million. kr. which, in fact, is an important contribution to financing all the good things we want in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154323	Yes, but so, as far as I understand that question, it is all the powers that we introduced in 2012, that are also the ones with signs outside and the fact that you had to give up the CVR number on request; all the good things, if I may say so, that the government then introduced. And I would also like to say that if they had still been included in the legal certainty package, I would have had no doubt at all as to what the Radical Left was going to vote, namely against their abolition. But now you've actually pulled the thorns out of the so-called package, so now there's only this thing with access to the garden left. I have a bit of a feeling that if we can find a way of doing this, so that we can get a quick court order so that we can act effectively, then I am not sure that I am voting against the proposal that the government has here, if I can see that a solution can be found. It will probably require an amendment along the way in the second reading or if it can be shown that this particular provision has no effect at all. Then we are also in a different situation. So, yes, all the good powers we introduced at the time have given the result that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen demonstrates. But I don't know what exactly garden access has given.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154433	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154435	But very briefly: one can say that the Social Democrats are also happy that the government in this legal security package has not tampered with everything, but we are really afraid that without among other things. this garden access, without access to control, which is both the signage and CVR numbers, etc. is part of, it may be impossible to enforce at all some of these various other powers, which we are pleased to see, after all, are not part of this Legal Security Package 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154509	But that is also the fear that can be justified and that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. But of course it would be nice to know that it has actually been used at all, so that is one of the things I hope we can clarify, that is, if we can separate the individual part from the answers we have received earlier this year. Because it would be nice to know. And if it can be demonstrated, I agree that then it is a very good argument for voting against that option to be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for any more brief remarks, so we move on to the SF. It is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154553	Thank you. When a company enters a private property, there is a place of work there in the garden. As in all sorts of other areas, we must ensure that there are proper working conditions and that there is no social dumping, undeclared work etc. Therefore, we believe that there must continue to be control in the same way as if you have a food business. It is your private business that you own the land on which it lies, and then there may also be food control. It's not about checking out the private people who have a garden. It's about checking the contract. SKAT won't come by if you need to change a window. But if a scaffolding is set up with a sign, etc., a workplace has arisen, and then you have to come into the garden to investigate this workplace. It is a control of the company and not of the people who live there. That control must obviously be carried out on people's grounds because that is where the workplace is. Of course, there can be a discussion about how large the scope should be and how often the authorities should appear, but well over 700 episodes can't be said to be overwhelmingly much. As my colleague from the Alternative also mentioned, there have been a number of cases where it has been seen that there have been major problems with cheating. Then there is the whole discussion about whether SKAT should have a court order in these cases, but what exactly should the judge look at when it comes to taking out some workers for random checks? It's about having an idea that in this area, and unfortunately SKAT has a lot of cheating going on. A few years ago, the head of department of the Crafts Council, Frank Korsholm, said about one of these proposals, which was part of the previous government's proposals on social dumping: we are generally positive about the government's proposals, as we believe that undeclared work is a serious crime, first and foremost, against all honest companies that are missing out on turnover and earnings, but it is also a crime against society and private people who are going to pay a higher tax than necessary. It was a departmental director of the Crafts Council who was very excited about this action against social dumping, because it is just so unfair to all the honest businesses, honest taxpayers who are out there. We have a huge problem with social dumping. We are losing thousands of jobs because some people are paying out money to foreign craftsmen. Frankly, I do not have any alternative from the bourgeois, the government, the minister, because not a single proposal has been put forward to curb social dumping in the construction industry and among some master craftsmen. I think that would have been a good idea for the Minister to come up with a proposal at the same time to remove this tool, which has been a great pleasure in the industry, because it is precisely helping honest and honest companies that pay the tax they have to pay and pay the salary they have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154910	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154914	Thank you. Now I wrote down what the rapporteur said: the moment work is done in the garden, it becomes a workplace. Then I would like to hear from the SF's rapporteur whether this means that private property has simply been abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029154927	No. I'm saying this doesn't apply if there's a artisan who comes and changes a window. However, when there is a large contract, where a scaffolding is set up, to be changed, and a sign is put up with the company's name, etc., then a workstation arises in the garden. The rapporteur can pull out of his pocket so many times, but this is simply not a question of the constitution or that it should have been violated in any way. Then I also think that there had been some lawyers in this country who had shouted guard in the rifle. In fact, a company arises on private property. It would be the same if Mrs Louise Schack Elholm owned a food business and owned the land on which the food business was located. Then there would also be food control at that company.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155019	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155021	Now most private landowners do not have a CVR number. I have to understand that SF believes that the moment you get a scaffolding in the garden, you no longer have any private property. Then it disappears. Is it a general opinion if you have such a place on your property? What if it's inside the house? What if you get a bigger job done inside the house? Will private property be allowed to smoke because it is a bigger job?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155047	No, let's talk about it, it is that there is a workplace on the ground, out in the garden, when there is such a building here. It is the workplace that is being checked, not the house or the owners of the house. It is the contract that arises on the ground. I can't understand why the Left doesn't care that there are a lot of these people, among them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155124	There are no more brief comments. Then we say thank you to the SF rapporteur, and then we turn to the Conservatives, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155130	It is a good proposal that the government has put forward, which the Conservative People's Party can of course support. It is of course an interesting debate to follow, both the debate in this Chamber today, but also the debate we had on the conservative side with the then government, during which we tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at abolishing and banning the possibility for SKAT to enter people's gardens without a court order. Why is this so important in principle? For one can of course always put up all kinds of logical arguments and make reasonings that say that SKAT should just be allowed to go into people's gardens because it will help to ensure more effective control. There are many things that would be more effective, there are many things that would be easier for the authorities if you just let go. But we live in a society of law, a democratic society of law, with legal certainty for the individual citizen and with the constitution as our preamble, so ensuring that ownership is inviolable. So now that the previous government allowed SKAT as an authority to enter without a warrant on people's private property, in people's gardens, it is a basic disease that you start, that is, when you do not say off, when you do not stop in relation to the power that the state will always take on. Because it's always easier to get in with people without a warrant. It's always easier to give the police more powers. It is always easier to give SKAT more powers. However, we have a fundamental obligation and a responsibility in the Folketing to ensure rights and legal certainty for citizens. So when the Red Government made it possible, people's rights were trampled on. It was allowed that SKAT over 700 times in the last few years could penetrate private people's gardens. I got an email from a woman who had experienced it. It was a woman who came home from work one afternoon. There were two tax workers in her garden because some work had been done. They were arguing with the woman for a few hours out in the garden while all the neighbors heard it, accusing her of the ditto and the date. It was very, very humiliating. It was an authority that, without a warrant and without being authorized by anyone, had just walked into his or her garden and stood and discussed loudly with her and accused her of all sorts of things. It ended up with her getting a letter saying that the only thing that was wrong was that there were some empty Coke bottles out in the garden that belonged to that building. Yet, as authority, one assumed the right to enter people's gardens. It is therefore a fundamental injustice, and it is symptomatic of many of the huge problems that have been in the SKAT in the past, which the current minister is fortunately in the process of correcting, namely that one simply thought that one could accept that right. It's unhealthy; it's really unhealthy. Of course we must combat undeclared work, and I will help to make every possible effort to ensure it, but basically it must be the case that people's rights are safeguarded. That is why we are very pleased with the proposal here, which follows up on the campaign for which we, the Conservatives, fought hard in the last session, and we will, of course, warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155518	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155521	What we did in the government at the time was to strengthen the joint efforts of the authorities, so that the police, Labour Inspectorate and SKAT work together, become better at informing each other and better at creating joint controls, so that when there is something that the Labour Inspectorate should look at, they also often take out both the police and the SKAT. This has, of course, had a huge effect, and I assume that the rapporteur can also confirm that. Perhaps that's why I have not heard the story of the woman and the Coke bottles before that I know only a complaint about it here, because it is precisely part of a joint administrative work which aims to combat some of the particularly foreign companies operating in Denmark and which have employees running around on difficult conditions and thus outdoing law-abiding Danish companies. This is also one of the reasons why Danish Construction and others think this bill is a bad idea. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm briefly that, in such a way, the joint efforts of the authorities have had a beneficial effect on the fight against undeclared work and foreign companies that are not in control of the papers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155640	It's elementary, my dear Watson. The more you cooperate, the better. And we are against undeclared work and we will also provide instruments to ensure that undeclared work is combated. But here it is about some fundamental rights for citizens, of which the Socialists should also be defenders. The Socialists have helped to establish the rule of law and the democracy in which we live, and have been a very active party to it in defending the rights granted to citizens, including to totalitarian forces. It is a struggle that has been waged in the past against communism and against other totalitarian systems. And it is precisely totalitarian that you just give an authority the opportunity to go into people's land without a warrant. It is, of course, a fundamental right that you as a citizen have that protection. Otherwise, an authority can just go in, and I can safely say on the basis of my previous work as Minister of Justice, that it was of course difficult for the police to have a warrant. Of course it was. But that meant that you should have confirmed that you had a good case before you could go knocking at people's door. The police can't just go in with people from Hell's Angels; they need a warrant. But SKAT could just go in with Mr. Hansen without a warrant. It's a little grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155747	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155748	Well, then, let's stick to the warrant, now that we have a former Justice Minister in the Chamber. The Liberal Alliance says it must be easy for SKAT to obtain a warrant, the Danish People's Party wants there to be an opportunity for SKAT to obtain the warrant, and Radicals say that there must be easy access for SKAT, perhaps even without the police catching up with the court order.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155815-2	It doesn't have to be difficult. This is something the police are dealing with today, together with the courts, and SKAT must also be able to deal with it in conjunction with the courts. It's not something I want to get involved in. Well, I'm not interested in bureaucracy. But the fundamental right lies in the fact that the SKAT cannot simply go in with Mr. Hansen or Mrs Jensen, on the basis of suspicion, is so fundamentally important that you have to go by a judge and ask permission, as well as it is important that the police ask a judge for permission before going into Hell's Angels-rocker X, Y or Z
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155851	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, so we will move on to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029155903	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for the good and lively debate that has taken place in this Chamber. It was also a fundamental debate. It is not always the case that the debates we have in the Parliamentary Assembly are as fundamental as the one we have had in the last hour and a half, and I think that is basically very good. I would also like to thank you for the fact that there is at least a majority of parties, I have noted that I welcome the proposal. Then there are a few individual parties who can see some positive elements in it, but apparently not enough for them to be persuaded to vote for it, and then there are some who are indignantly opposed to it. After all, the legislative proposal for a legal certainty package you are part of a process that the government and I, as tax minister, have set in motion in order to focus more on legal certainty in the field of taxation. I think sir... Martin Lidegaard said that there was nothing left in this legal certainty package, and it is true that the bill contains only one element. However, there are a number of other things in this legal certainty package I, which are administrative things that the tax minister has the authority to change. One of the elements of the legal certainty package is the abolition of the anonymous review service, and there has been little discussion in the previous government about whether to have it. Some tax ministers thought it was a good idea and created it, and others laid it down. I think that among other things... the radical tax minister, sir. Morten Østergaard dropped the anonymous review service, and I think that was wise. Unfortunately, it was set up again, and now it has been abolished, hopefully finally, and I hope that there will be a broad majority in the Folketing in order not to go that way again. Another initiative in legal certainty package I is, of course, the question of cost compensation, where later this year or at the beginning of next year I will call the parties of the Folketing to look at it to see how we can put companies and companies that win over SKAT better than is the case today, when they do not get their costs covered if they run their company in company form. There has also been a discussion about telecommunications information, i.e. whether SKAT can use telecommunications information, access to detailed telecommunications information, in order to decide whether or not to apply tax. There has been much discussion about this. I have also chosen administratively in the legal certainty package I to say clearly to SKAT that, for my part, the question is politically settled by the fact that SKAT should not have access to this information. If you want them, you have to go to the courts, you have to be unable to obtain them as part of the application of the tax control law, and if I am not mistaken, it is Article 8d of the tax control law. So there are a number of initiatives that go beyond the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, and they then constitute this legal certainty package I. Then there must be a legal certainty package II, and there must also be an III. It is basically about the government and I, as tax minister, wishing to focus on citizens' rights in relation to the tax system, in relation to SKAT, and it is about restoring the confidence that, what to say, has been under pressure over the past many years, and to ensure that we, as politicians and legislators, take our side with the citizens. This should not be done by criticising SKAT for using the laws and rules that have been adopted and the guidelines that apply. This must be done by taking political responsibility and saying: we are now setting our feet against some of these powers, where we do not think there is any connection between intervention against the citizen and what comes out of it where there is no proportionality. This is one of those areas where, in the view of the government, there is no proportionality. With this bill it is proposed, as the debate has also shown, that we are removing the powers of SKAT to carry out checks on visible construction activities of a professional nature when work is done on private property. This leads the government to remove, as was also highlighted in this debate, because we believe that in some situations the relationship between the supervisory powers of the SKAT and the rights of the individual citizen has come out of balance. This bill and a number of the initiatives I have just mentioned and some of the future legal certainty packages, which I hope to have broad support for in the Folketing, aim to help achieve a fairer balance between the supervisory powers with which SKAT is endowed and, in this case, the citizen's right to privacy. If there is no balance and coherence in these considerations, then the citizen loses confidence in SKAT's important control tasks. Control on private grounds is a major interference in private life, and it is by such intervention that there must be very serious reasons why it should be carried out. The government does not want citizens without their own faults to be blameless or without being able to prevent governments from entering the private sphere. There are also some who have raised the political, what to say, the value-policy debate in this. For me, as the tax minister, it acts, among other things. on what is stated in the Constitution, Section 72 of the Constitution, that the dwelling is inviolable, and Section 73, that ownership is inviolable, and there is nothing legally to prevent one from choosing to have these powers of control, that is not contrary to the Constitution. However, as Minister for Taxation, as Liberal, I would say that I feel morally obliged to respect the spirit of the constitution as well, and there I must say that I actually regard a garden as part of the dwelling, and although we are legally not bound by sections 72 and 73 of the Constitution in relation to this discussion, I must say that I think that this is in fact connected with the ideas underlying the powers that people say: what is happening in people's private gardens must be extremely serious reasons for us to give the authorities access to. But that may be politically disagreeable, and that is quite fair. Oh! However, the abolition of SKAT's access to private checks will not be granted and it is also the answer to some of the questions that are crucial to the overall control of undeclared work and social dumping by SKAT. SKAT will continue to have a number of supervisory powers to ensure effective control. The draft law only amends the grounds for the supervision of the SKAT. The draft law has also been submitted to external consultation, which several speakers mentioned, and then it contained two additional elements. One was a proposal to abolish the requirement for signs to be erected at construction sites, and the other was a proposal to remove the obligation for a worker to provide his full CPR number and, if necessary, to present valid ID. And in the light of the consultation responses received and the subsequent political discussions that have taken place on the possible consequences of the scale of undeclared work and social dumping, the government has chosen to respond to the desire to preserve these elements of tax legislation. This is the case with a democratic process. I shall deal briefly with some of the issues that have been discussed here, and I have to say that some of them leave the impression that if we remove this power of control, the whole effort against social dumping and undeclared work will fall away, and Denmark will become a developing country where there is no control of undeclared work and social dumping. That is simply not true. That is simply not correct. For in that paragraph, it is of course clear that before this control power was exercised in 2012, we made a great and inadequate effort in this area, and that is simply not right. We made a really comprehensive effort to limit undeclared work and social dumping before 2012, when we adopted this bill, and we will continue to do so, and there are a large number of other tools that authorities like tax authorities, but also other authorities, can use to minimise illegal social dumping and undeclared work. So I simply do not buy the premise that some people argue that we should retain this power of control. And I have to stand firm on the fundamental point of view, which I think is absolutely crucial and important. One could also choose as a starting point to look at what has actually come out of it. So, if there is proportionality, is there a connection between this control power and the intervention that it might be against a homeowner that SKAT can show up? Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, by the way, is a concrete story out of the real world about. Is there any connection between the intervention that it can be experienced to be and what then comes out of it? And a number of parliamentary answers have been given to that. If I am going to highlight one of the answers, I can draw attention to the answer that was given, which I believe at the middle or end of August to Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democratic Party, in the Tax Committee, and one can read in the reply that from 1 January 2015 to 12 August 2015 there are 107 cases in SKAT, and that some of the cases have not yet been finally resolved, but of those that have been clarified, and that is by far the majority, I think it is 80, there are 4 cases that have ended up with orders • 4 cases have ended with bans. That tells me as the tax minister and hopefully also the people who are listening and the members of parliament who are following this, something. The fact that you have had 107 cases is, of course, an expression of the fact that it is not a tool that has been used on an enormous scale, and I would remind you that it is a tool, because in the first half of 2015, we had another government, so it is not about changing track as a result of a new government. 107 cases have therefore been for a tool which has not been used to a great extent, and when I look at the figures, I have to say that I do not think it is very much that has come out of it. It is, of course, four injunctions and certainly also a little extra money in the Treasury, but not something that I think justifies continuing to have this power of control and that we go in and give SKAT access to people's private gardens. So in those words I should like to thank you for a good debate and I look forward to a constructive committee reading. I have the feeling that there may be some questions, but also a further discussion here in the Folketing at the second and third readings, and I shall look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161000	Thank you. And the Minister's feeling is right, as there is at least one question, and that is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161009	This is a little prompted by some of the discussions that have taken place in this Chamber today, including the discussion that I myself had with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and also a little prompted by some of the brief remarks made by the Liberal Alliance. And that's the whole question of this judicial review. In other words, we have received a very, very clear answer, answer No. 96, from the Minister for Taxation, in which he states that SKAT is not entitled under the applicable rules to obtain a court order and that he does not have any current plans to do so in the exercise of the authority of SKAT following the possible adoption of Bill L 13. Now there was such a debate that one could do something like that, and I just want to know if the Minister is still standing by this answer, that is to say that it will not be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161110	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161113	Well, it is a one-party minority government, so I would say that as a tax minister I stand by what is my position and what is my party's position, but if a majority in the Folketing wants something else, I must bow to it. However, I would like to express my scepticism about the proposal from the Danish People's Party and whether it would make sense, overall, to move in that direction. But I understand that they have a wish for it, and we shall have to look at it in committee. In other words, there is a fundamental difference between carrying out a control task and carrying out a specific investigation, and that is why it cannot be fully compared with access to court orders. I think we should keep our tongues straight in our mouths, in relation to whether it is a matter of regulatory control and what we have to do there, or whether it is a case of specific suspicions of various things. It could be a breach of the tax law, and it could also be criminal proceedings or something else. After all, there are different tools to use and different rules and guidelines that apply, and I think we should be careful to mix the two types of interventions together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161213	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161217	Yes, I understand that, but that is still what the debate here today has been all about. And, of course, I am glad that the Minister is saying that what is true is a minority government and that you have to comply with the majority, but if you move in that direction with some more control of one kind or another, judicial decisions or whatever, it will of course also shoot down a lot of the background to the whole legislative proposal and legal certainty package.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161246	But I can also answer the question in another way. I understand the Danish People's Party's desire to focus on social dumping and the minimisation of undeclared work, but I think that if you are going to use your resources where you get the most out of them, you should not go down the road that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær pointed out, but then we have to look at other parts of the legislation and, moreover, also at how much resources have been made available to limit undeclared work and social dumping. And, of course, we listen to the parties of the Folketing, but especially to those who are the parliamentary basis of the government. It would be stupid not to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161317	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161321	Thank you. It's just a short question. It's almost leading, but it's not meant to be that bad. It's because we've had a discussion about whether this bill will lead to more undeclared work, so I just have to ask the tax minister to confirm what the tax minister himself writes, namely that this bill can give rise to more undeclared work and thus increase the tax gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161351	That is, when from 1 January 2015 until 15 August 2015 there have been 107 cases, of which there are 4 cases, where there has been an injunction now I do not know what lies in the cases as such; it could also be because people do not comply with the law on signage or anything else; it can be examined more closely then it has of course some effect. That's why it's in the bill. But can't be the same as it sure will. You cannot rule out the fact that when you remove a control power, it has some effect. The only question is whether the effect of restricting undeclared work and social dumping is in line with the intervention it is. Is there proportionality, is there coherence in relation to the citizen's privacy, rights, the inviolability of the dwelling and the spirit of paragraphs 72 and 73 of the Constitution? And there I just have to say clearly as the government and my view: no, there is no coherence and proportionality, and that is why we are proposing to change the power.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161450	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161453	Thank you. In the second context, in connection with the introduction of the housing job scheme, the government and the Minister lean on Danish Construction and believe that this action will help to combat undeclared work. That is one of the arguments. We have been talking about this in a number of contexts. Why is it that the Minister does not lean on Danish Construction in this context when Dansk Byggeri writes in their hearing answer that the overall package introduced in 2012 has had a beneficial effect on the fight against black and illegal work in the villa gardens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161527	I think I said in relation to the treatment of the housing job scheme that there are various contributions from interest groups, and you can look at them. Then you can agree or disagree, and you can also challenge some of them professionally. I think that is what the Socialists wanted to do. In the situation at that time, it was thought that the housing job scheme did not provide as many jobs as the Crafts Council pointed out and leaned on the figures of the Ministry of Taxation. So I really don't think there's anything unusual in that. After all, there are a large number of consultation responses here which recognise that this is a step in the right direction for legal certainty, among other things. from the Lawyer Society, the Institute of Human Rights and others. And these are some of the consultation responses that I choose to emphasise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161605	The next question is Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161610	Thank you. The Minister says in his speech here that we are some who warn that Denmark will become a developing country if it is that these powers of control are removed. I can hear that the Minister does not necessarily attach much importance to what it is, at least the Socialist Members are asking. But as my colleague Jeppe Bruus mentioned, the Crafts Council is some of them. They certainly do not call it that we are being put back into being a developing country, but they nevertheless call it both spectacular and a major step backwards in the fight against undeclared work. So I would just like to repeat the question that Jeppe Bruus raised earlier, namely: does the Minister believe that there will be more or less undeclared work after the legal certainty package 1 is adopted, presumably here in a short space of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161700	Well, I mean what the bill says. But it all depends on what else you do. And it's a strange premise to run. You can choose to look at it in isolation, and then you can't rule out anything. But you cannot rule out one or the other or the other. I think the Socialists should use their energy to dive into how we optimise the efforts we have against undeclared work and social dumping. Would we be able to use the money? the much, much money we spend and that the previous Social Democratic government allocated to the area? a little more wisely? Is it now necessary for us to have these powers of control which compromise some very fundamental things in our community of law and the spirit of that is such a moral argument as some of us understand in the provision on the inviolability of housing? I don't think the Socialists should use their energy and energy to take a big fight on this proposal. If you read some of the other consultation answers, you will see that there are some others who have a completely different view from Danish Construction, and you can then choose to emphasize them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161802	I can assure the Minister that the Socialists spend all their time optimising the fight against cheats, those who cheat and those who cheat. That is also why we are so sorry that the new government removes some of these powers of authority, which have actually been good tools in the fight against undeclared work. And you can clearly see that. Between 2012 and 2014, there was an additional recovery of 192.5 million. kr. And the fact that the Minister now intends to remove those tools makes it even harder to get that money back home. That is what we are so sad and sad about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161842	I'd like to draw Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's attention to the hearing from the Danish Employers' Association. The last paragraph states: "The DA should also draw attention to the fact that since the 2012 legislative amendment a large number of other legislative and collective agreements have been introduced which are aimed at undeclared work and work that does not comply with the applicable rules, and the coordination of regulatory cooperation has improved. I think that is the answer: if you remove this power of control, it may in fact be that we are still far better off in isolation compared to minimising undeclared work and limiting social dumping than we were before 2012 because we have done a number of other things. And it may also be that the government will do a number of other things. But I can promise that we will not reinstate this power of control that we think is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161931	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029161958	The debate is open and I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162011	Thank you for the floor. We are generally pleased that the ambitions for strengthening the Blue Denmark presented by the former Socialist-led government have been adopted by the new government. This bill is part of the ambitions presented in the previous government growth package from 2014 and the agreement reached between the former Social Democratic led government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservatives. From this point of view, of course, we support the proposed bill, which is based on a similar legislative proposal that was tabled but not finally adopted before the parliamentary elections. The proposal extends the tonnage tax scheme to a number of activities typically carried out by specialised vessels. The tax minister's written submission points out that such an extension would attract new vessels to Denmark and secure investments and jobs. Danish Shipowners' Association and Danish Metal. According to the Shipowners' Association, it will provide about 100 additional jobs to specialists on land. In addition, it is the view of the Social Democrats that an increase in tonnage tax could counteract pressure on further relocations of jobs and registration of new drilling rigs, for example. Singapore. The legislative proposal we are now considering has been slightly extended in relation to the legislative proposal put forward by the previous government. In the new draft law, activities involving the construction, repair and dismantling of oil installations at sea should also be subject to tonnage tax. In future committee work, we will pay particular attention to the common sense of this enlargement, just as the Socialists will be concerned that the state will not miss deferred taxes, as critics have said when the tonnage tax was introduced. We are also aware that in 2012 the wise men expressed the fact that the state aid granted to the shipping industry had gone too far in relation to the appropriate level and we will try to see what conditions the government is laying down for the draft law to lead to a non-negotiable reduction in revenue. All in all, however, we support the proposal with these initial comments and look forward to the work of the committee and future discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162216	Thank you. There's one questioner, and that's sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162223	I just want to know whether the Socialists do not have the angle of the draft law, which states that this can also be seen here as a regular tax relief for the shipping industry, in that the tonnage tax scheme is very much more favourable than ordinary corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162243	This is but it is state aid, of course the questioner is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162259	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162302	So one of the reasons for the draft law I would like to say, however, that it is strongly toned down in relation to the previous draft law is the issue of employment. I would like to know how much more employment there is in this. 100 more specialists are mentioned, but if more wind turbines are to be transported out, there are more goods to be transported out to rigs and platforms in the North Sea, etc. etc.? How much more employment is really in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162336	I dare not say that it is very uncertain.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162341	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162349	Here we are discussing another re-submission of a legislative proposal which we also discussed before the elections. At that time we in the Danish People's Party were able to support the bill, so I can already say that we can do so again. It is about the implementation of an agreement in which the Danish People's Party is part of, in connection with the 2014 growth package, in which a wide range of parties are involved, and that is also a good argument for the Danish People's Party to support, i.e. because we are part of the agreement. It is a short matter of strengthening the framework conditions for Blue Denmark, which is a huge industry in Denmark. As far as I remember, we are the eighth largest player in the world market, and that has been quite well done by a relatively small country. It also shows just how important it is to continue to have good framework conditions in this area. In concrete terms, the draft law means that the tonnage tax scheme will be extended by special ships which can then be included in it. This is among other things. wind turbine ships, ice-handling ships, hotel ships and guard ships, and they can then in future get this lighter taxation. The smaller news that is included in this bill compared to the bill we were discussing before the elections is that there are a few other things about activities with buildings and repairs and the removal of oil installations at sea, which are now also included in this scheme. The aim is quite simple, of course, that we want to attract new vessels to Denmark and secure investment and jobs, because, as I said at the outset, this is an extremely important profession, and it is important that we retain the leading position we have in Denmark, and this is what this bill is all about. Some might as well, I understand from the consultations, imagine that we went even further, but this is, after all, a step in the right direction. Then there is one last point I would like to mention, which I would like to put a little bit into committee work. I have received a request from the Danish Shipowners' Association, which says that I also think it has been in, I don't remember whether it was the Stock Exchange or the Berlingske Tidende that there is a specific problem with a small group of ships. As I understand it, cable-laying vessels are being hit adversely by this bill, and it is not the intention of any of the parties to the agreement that anyone should be penalised, but that it should actually be a strengthening of the industry. So I would like to try to delve into it in the committee work to see if it is possible to remove that part so that it does not hit any ships negatively in the industry. But the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162631	Thank you. There's a single questioner so far, and that's Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162638	It sounds really interesting if there's a flicker sometimes and then huha, let's get it picked out, right? Oh. May I ask the rapporteur: is the shipping industry in Denmark such a threatened profession, or is it a particularly pressured profession that is almost in crisis or something like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162701	I cannot understand the first comment. If you find some inconvenients in a bill, it is surely the Danish Parliament's job to try to see if you can correct them. I really think that is only natural and not something you have to try to make fun of. In response to the second part: No, the industry is not in crisis in Denmark, but that is why you can do something to further develop it. And there are a number of special ships here that are not covered by the tonnage tax scheme in force, which is part of the reason why the Danish industry in this area, Blue Denmark, is very strong in the world competition. And, in fact, it is only positive if the system can be extended, and it is also a revenue-neutral system, so that it does not even cost anything. It's kind of just an improvement for the industry, and I can't understand that if someone could be against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162748	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162751	Whether it costs something is, of course, very uncertain according to the bill. But you can also say, in relation to those special ships covered by this bill, that the employment they generate is probably where it is. Much of it takes place up around Esbjerg, and they sail out into the North Sea. I guess there's the activity there. I guess it's not so much affected by whether there's a tonnage tax or not. I guess there's more talk about a tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162828	The right thing is that there is the activity in the North Sea that is currently there, but it does not matter to Denmark whether that activity sails from Denmark or from England or from the Netherlands, or which country it might now be that can reach the distances from which we work. I think it's much better if this job is there and these ships are sailing out of Denmark, and that's what this bill is supposed to help secure by getting them into this tonnage tax scheme. It is therefore an advantage for them that the ships sail under the Danish flag instead of under the Danish flag, for example. English flag.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162857	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029162904	Thank you for the floor. The proposal is a re-presentation of L 124, which translates part of the 2014 Growth Agreement concluded by the then government with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservatives. The proposal is broadly identical to the original proposal, with the addition that ships with construction tasks in connection with oil installations also have access to the scheme. The aim is clearly to extend the scheme so that we can attract more ships and more investments and thus also more jobs for Denmark. Blue Denmark, including the offshore industry, needs better framework conditions, and that is what this proposal gives us. There is also a small addition to the legislative proposal that we were discussing in the spring, which is a minor change compared to the vessels that are going to help outside the Danish continental shelf. So I think it looks very sensible and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163008	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163035	It is difficult to get used to the fact that we have come so far in order that we are the fourth largest party in the parliament. The draft law means that several types of ships, the so-called special ships used primarily for offshore activities in wind and oil and gas extraction, can now choose to tax, or rather the shipping companies to which they belong, to be taxed under the particularly favourable tonnage tax scheme. It is so favourable that it is regarded as State aid and must be continually approved by the European Union. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we think that this bill should be regarded as what it is, namely a tax relief for shipping companies. From paying, at least in principle, for the corporate tax activities of these ships, the shipping companies will in future be taxed with the very low tonnage tax for these ships, a tonnage tax which is independent of the revenue from the activities. In the comments it is assessed with uncertainty, for then it has at least been guarded that the bill will result in not significantly less revenue. It might have been nice to have seen some valid numbers on this. Indeed, I believe that the offshore activities in question contribute significantly to the profits of shipping companies. In other words, I believe that a great deal of money is being made on offshore activities, for example. North Sea. The proposal for additional tax relief for shipping companies is very much in line with the Government's desire to come one, one must understand, needed the business community to help, and at the same time, the living conditions of ordinary people are being reduced by numerous reforms. Finally, with the reform of unemployment benefits, conditions have deteriorated for those who have the most difficulty in coping and who are affected by unemployment, sickness or other ugly conditions. This bill spells out, and not surprisingly, of course, that the government is on the side of the wealthy. It is on the part of companies, which apparently have to pay less and less to the common fund and contribute less and less to all the many things that the welfare society makes available and which, above all, companies benefit from a well-trained workforce, a good infrastructure, a health service that takes care of employees if they get sick or get hurt, and many, many more things. Let me remind you that Denmark again scores toweringly in international studies on the economic friendliness of the countries, i.e. how good it is to operate in a country. We've just become number one again. 1 in Europe according to World Bank and No. 3 in the world. What do we have to complain about? Is there more employment in this? No, it is not for the simple reason that there will be no more tasks. After all, no more mills should be transported into the North Sea or anywhere else than before, or transported more to platforms and rigs than before. There is such a thing as the oil price, of course, a quite different significant factor with a direct impact on employment, both in oil and gas extraction and in the wind turbine industry. The Enhedslisten welcomes, of course, the fact that the bill does not at the same time include the ships covered by the DIS scheme. There is a certain link between the tonnage tax scheme and the DIS scheme, and when we welcome this, it is of course because the problem of section 10 of the DIS Act has still not been resolved. The paragraph that shamefully prevents the Danish seafarers' unions from organising and representing seafarers on board DIS ships; a paragraph which is contrary to the UN Convention on Workers' Rights and has been criticised countless times by the UN Labour Organisation ILO. But I have no doubt that in this area too the DIS scheme will come just because it is a hot wish of the Danish shipping companies, and that is also between the lines of the bill, where this question is therefore given a great deal of attention. The Tonnage Tax Scheme, together with the DIS scheme, is State aid schemes which must be regularly approved by the European Commission and, in order to obtain an authorisation, the impact and scope of the schemes must be properly disclosed, not least the economic scope of the State aid. In the case of a long-term case between the Navigators and DFDS, which has been taken as a matter of principle or as a test case for all Danish shipping companies, it has emerged that the method of calculation used to give up the level of State aid or the lesser amount of tax revenue in connection with the DIS scheme is highly questionable, so that the level of State aid is, as it were, less lying; moreover, it is not reflected in the Finance Act, and it is at the request of the shipping companies. I wonder whether this also applies to the tonnage tax scheme, in view of my earlier comment on the draft law's comments that it is assessed with uncertainty when this tonnage tax scheme is extended that it will result in not significantly less revenue. There seems to be a great deal of uncertainty about aid to the shipping industry and, therefore, the level of State aid to the poor industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163535	Thank you. The rapporteur is asked to remain, because there is one brief comment from Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163542	One must almost understand in Enhedslisten that this proposal has no effect, and in fact Enhedslisten almost believes that it has a negative effect. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he thinks that it would have had a better effect if the same ships sailing out in the North Sea were registered in England, because it could then be the consequence if we did not do this. And that is precisely the point of the whole proposal, i.e. that it is not necessarily a question of creating a thousand new jobs, but it may be that those ships can continue to sail under the Danish flag and thus also have Danish crew and be Danish workplace. So I just think that Enhedslisten has misunderstood it a little, because no matter how taxation is on ships, jobs will not necessarily be in Denmark, because there is therefore a competition that makes the ships equally well registered in England.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163627	In my best opinion, the flag states have no bearing on the location of jobs. What matters is, of course, what you are sailing out to, where it is the projects you are participating in, whether it is the setting up of an offshore farm or whatever it may be. And the competences that exist in the ports in question are what affect where the ships leave. With regard to their manning, the same thing is true, because it is very much a question of one thing, as many of these ships exactly demand well-educated, very competent labour, and that is where I think we can get along. After all, there is also a certain amount of Danish employment on board the ships in question, and I am quite confident that it will continue to be so regardless of the flag State. It is a question here of tax relief for the shipping companies concerned, and that is all we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163714	Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163717	In order to understand this correctly, one must clearly understand the fact that taxation of the Danish shipping industry is completely irrelevant, because jobs will still be here. So, in principle, taxation could be raised twice, because they would sail out of here anyway. So I don't think there are many economists who would agree with Enhedslisten. In as competitive a profession as this is, where you might as well sail from England or from the Netherlands or other countries, that means something, which flag they sail under and what tax there is. So it goes without saying that if Denmark doesn't have any good competitive conditions for this industry, they'll just move their ships somewhere else. I think it seems quite illogical to think that it does not matter what taxation is in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163758	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163801	Well, that's exactly my point. It does not matter whether the shipping companies are flapping out, if they do not contribute to the common fund, to the Danish Treasury. That is exactly what the problem is. The Tonnage tax is today so low that it is something that looks like zero tax or at least a very, very small tax. The rapporteur says that there are many economists who disagree with the Enhedslisten in this, but no, there is no, because even the economic wise men have pointed out through the '00s that it could in fact be irrelevant what flag the ships in question had in the back, because the Danish shipping companies do not contribute to the common fund because they do not pay taxes or because the employed seamen on board do not pay taxes to the Danish state either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163846	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has... sorry, there's another questioner here. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163900	I think the rapporteur is getting away with it a little too easily. Because what's the alternative? Now it is not to advertise a new party here in the Folketing, but in relation to Enhedslisten's policy. I noticed that the rapporteur spoke in several of his speeches about the poor profession. So there is something negative or insinuating in it when you say it in the way the rapporteur does. But what is the alternative? I'd like to ask Enhedslisten. For the Danish Shipowners' Association, for example, has an agreement to secure 200 student seats annually to ensure that new machine masters and masters and all sorts of others are trained, which I know is also a great challenge today, i.e. to get enough applicants. It is actually said that if you wanted to do this even better, you could also increase the possibility of more Danish student places in the blue sector, that is to say the maritime sector. What's the alternative? I'd like to ask Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163945	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029163948	After all, the 200 training places mentioned by the rapporteur are highly controversial because they are completely and completely administered by the shipping companies themselves. And there is a great deal, for example. from the Navigator's Leaders, questioned whether one gets the full benefit of those training places and one has not been able to obtain documentation from the Shipowners' Association as to whether they actually provide the places. They choose and reject, at least, their own places, which is why, for example, they choose and reject. At the moment, the masters of the machines are very much in favour of the food chain for navigators and such things are starving. At the same time, it is a fact that cover crews are largely not trained by the Danish shipping companies, with the exception of ESVAGT in Esbjerg, which stands for far, by far the majority of the training of ordinary ship assistants and such.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164038	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164042	Well, thank you for your answer, because I think the rapporteur is in fact responding to it himself. He just doesn't know it himself. Well, it's one big suspicion we're experiencing here. I am well aware of how this is perceived by the sailors, and I also acknowledge the premise that the agreement has been a little loose on its edges. But what is the alternative? That is not what the rapporteur is talking about here, which is simply discrediting and suspicious of the entire maritime sector in Denmark. That is what the rapporteur has done by saying poor shipping companies and poor people. There I think Enhedslisten should try to turn the slope once and say: is this the right way to deal with this? We do not think so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164119	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164122	It is, of course, because we think it may be a little premature to grant tax relief to a profession at a time when everyone else is being cut back and the living conditions of benefit recipients, cash benefit recipients and people on sickness benefits etc. are being reduced. etc. It therefore seems that it is precisely now time to give some tax relief to the Danish shipping companies, which do not suffer any hardship, and that is what I am saying and which actually do quite well and have been doing so for quite many years. First of all, this is very bad timing, and secondly, it is not necessary, in my best opinion, either. The shipping companies are actually doing quite well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164203	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164211	L 16 is about extending the tonnage tax scheme and thereby improving the competitiveness of shipping companies in the global market. The shipping companies are very directly exposed to global competition, and changing governments have therefore considered that a favourable tax framework should be developed for the industry. We in the Liberal Alliance fully agree with that analysis and we support the improvements that lie in L 16. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that global competition is also pushing other industries. When we in Denmark develop special arrangements for shipping companies or too highly educated, which we have, for example, through the advance tax scheme, it is in recognition that the high tax burden in Denmark drives businesses and jobs out of the country. I am therefore concerned about constantly improving the tax framework in Denmark, both in terms of personal taxes and taxes and corporation tax. Bill L 16 means that the tonnage tax scheme is extended by a number of activities typically carried out by offshore companies with special ships. The current government has extended the tonnage tax scheme further compared to L 24 presented by the previous government, so that shipping companies with building activities etc. of oil installations at sea will also be able to apply the tonnage tax scheme in relation to a large part of the activities. In the Liberal Alliance, we are positive about these changes and we are also ready to discuss other improvements for the industry. It is clear that when tax relief is relaxed one should always consider where one would like to take action, but in the Liberal Alliance we believe that the overall tax burden is basically so high that it is difficult to find places where we are not willing to look at relaxations that can improve the framework for operating in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164352	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a single questioner. It's sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164359	This is, of course, in line with the questions I have already asked, including in my rapporteur's speech. Is there anything that would suggest that the Danish shipping companies are in deep crisis or need help at the moment? Does the rapporteur not agree with me that by extending the tonnage tax scheme to these ships, this is a regular tax relief for the shipping companies concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164424	Now we in the Liberal Alliance have nothing against tax relief. We would like to help companies widely and make arrangements that apply to everyone. Here, a system has been set up for a particular industry, which is particularly competitive. I just remind you that the framework conditions in Denmark are straining companies and industries across the board, and we are therefore happy to see tax cuts going across industries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164453	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164456	But it is surely a good principle that if you benefit from our welfare society, benefit from well-trained labour, good infrastructure, that employees can be treated if they become ill, etc., then you should also contribute. It is surely a fact that Danish shipping companies are gradually not contributing very much to the common fund, and this is a further step in that direction in relation to not contributing either. Even the training of seafarers does not make a major contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164528	We clearly believe that Blue Denmark contributes a great deal. It should not, of course, be the case that an industry must be in deep crisis before assessing whether the framework conditions are good. It would be crazy if we had to constantly assess whether an industry was going beyond the edge before we assessed whether the framework conditions were in order. It may well be that in the Enhedslisten it would be fine, but we do not think so in the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Alliance would like to keep ensuring that we have a healthy investment climate, that we have good conditions for companies both to start up, but also in terms of running old, well-established companies that we need in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164607	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164615	Thank you for the floor. The draft law allows several types of maritime companies and shipping companies to move from corporation tax to tonnage tax, which is significantly lower. Tonnage tax can be described as a kind of weight tax in which the shipping company pays a fixed amount of tax per year. net tonnes available to them, while other companies pay tax on income, expenses and depreciation. Since 2001, Danish shipping companies have paid tonnage tax, and the proposal here is to extend the tonnage tax scheme to include a number of special ships and the offshore sector. The rules are made so that shipping companies can do better in international competition. In the alternative, however, we do not think that it is a sustainable way to engage in tax competition with our trade and business partners. It risks becoming a race to the bottom quickly, in which all countries lower their taxes to the lowest possible level, because they are being pressured. One of the arguments for the bill is also that it will create Danish jobs. However, we have doubts as to whether the impact on jobs will be as great as is imagined. Even if several special ships are registered in Denmark, they will probably only be staffed to a small extent by Danish staff, and therefore we believe that the effect on the Danish jobs will be relatively small. The alternative does not see the proposal as a proposal that will bring jobs to Blue Denmark, but as a proposal that will bring tax relief to Blue Denmark, and we do not think that will make any profit either on the social bottom line or on the economic bottom line, and therefore the alternative does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164749	I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164756	The Radical Left can support the proposal, and we can do so for several reasons. Firstly, we believe that the tonnage tax scheme has actually proved its worth. After all, it is not true that jobs will not be created and therefore tax revenue will be generated on the basis of the scheme. On the contrary, it is a system that has ensured constant growth for Blue Denmark, has ensured that we are one of the strongest maritime nations in the world and can continue to be so with all the accompanying industries and all the benefits that come with it on land in Denmark. But there is also another reason why we support this proposal, and that is that it is also something that is good for offshore wind turbines, the whole of Green Denmark, which already expands dramatically, where exports are increasing and where we see that we are still wind turbine manufacturer number one in the world; in fact, it is still one in four windmills in the world that are being shipped out from Esbjerg Harbour. It's crazy to think about, but it would be sad if they weren't shipped out on Danish ships, so you also got Danish crew and Danish competences throughout the value chain from the production of the windmill to the transport, setup, financing etc. And if, for once, there is a proposal from the government that can do a little good for the Green Denmark, instead of just counting savings, it is certainly worth including it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164923	Thank you. There's a single questioner, sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029164927	What I'd like to ask, sir. Martin Lidegaard, on the other hand, is: Martin Lidegaard did not agree with me that the shipping industry itself, the Danish shipping companies as such, does not contribute much to the common fund? It may well be that there are some derived effects I should not be able to reject at all but they do not in themselves contribute to the common fund. There is a DIS system in which the seamen on board do not pay tax to the Danish state. And you have a tonnage tax scheme that is very favourable, where the tax is very, very low. In many cases, there is zero tax. This means that there is not much money in the Danish state from this shipping business. So why would it help to extend this scheme to other activities, which are also taking place where they are taking place?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165031	It is, it can be said, an old discussion about tonnage taxation as such. It is so with the shipping industry that it is incredibly easy for any shipping company to put its ship under the flag of another country. It's kind of just a stroke of a pen. And that is why the only consequence of raising taxes on tonnage in Denmark and thus taxing ships is simply to put a different flag on the ship. And that is why the tonnage scheme was originally introduced. This can be lamented, and we can discuss in principle whether we should not have a more common minimum taxation system in Europe, in the world, what do I know? But we do not have that, and as long as we do not have it, it does not make sense for symbolic reasons to put up a tax, after which the Danish ships then just sail under another flag. That is why it makes sense at least to have a system that protects Danish interests and that ensures that all the accompanying jobs that come with it remain Danish and they are taxed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165133	Thank you. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165139	It is just before that all that remains is the veneration of Dannebrok. Okay, you can have that, but still it doesn't matter if you've got a knife in the back or if you don't have another flag in the back. A great deal is received from the Danish state. You receive well-trained labour, you receive good infrastructure, you receive good ports, you receive that employees can get treatment if they get sick or if they get hurt on board the ship. I guess it's fair to demand something in return. Something for something, said a former government that was not Mr. Martin Lidegaards, but still.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165216	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165219	In other words, in relation to the whole list of jobs actually created in Denmark, because we are a country in the world whose shipping companies transport between 10% and 15%. I simply disagree in the vertical terms with the fact that it is not a value for Denmark and that jobs are not created where taxes are paid in Denmark. Well, there is. It can also be demonstrated that the growth in the shipping industry in Denmark benefits the Danish tax fund directly, not through the tonnage tax, but through all the associated taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165253	There is another questioner, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165257	That sounds almost like the previous questioner, as if we are not getting any tax on tonnage tax, so I just want to hear if the rapporteur can confirm that the Danish tax fund is getting more out of the fact that ships pay Danish tonnage tax than they are registered under flags other than the Danish flag?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165319	I can confirm that one hundred percent, and if I did not say so in my answer before, it was a mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165324	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165334	In July, the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the SF signed a partial agreement under the agreement on the growth package, which contained this bill to strengthen the framework conditions for Blue Denmark. As the tonnage scheme is State aid to the maritime sector, the scheme is designed within the framework of the EU maritime State aid rules. SF is part of the agreement and therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165400	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165410	Thank you. Blue Denmark is crucial for growth, for workplace development, for the whole concept of Denmark as a trading nation. The entire maritime cluster employs over 100,000 people in Denmark. Our merchant fleet is in top ten globally. That is why it is important to be constantly aware of ensuring the best possible framework conditions, the best possible conditions for growth for the industry. This is true of all sectors of the economy. You can't just sit with your arms crossed and wait for developments to overtake us. Every day you sit in companies looking at how you can be more competitive, how you can minimize costs, how you can get more growth. That is how we should act in the Danish state as well. How can we get more growth, how can we get more jobs? This is done by providing good framework conditions, otherwise other countries that are also interested in it will overtake us. We cannot just believe that development is stalling in other countries because not so much is happening in Denmark. That is also my comment on the proposal here, which we can of course support. We think it is quite good to put it on the agenda, and although there is some doubt as to whether it is in the right direction or not, the bottom line is that it is a little easier and a little better to be able to act in the world with this proposal. But that is not enough at all. While it is banking out there in other areas and while the offshore market has become increasingly global, we have not developed our tax policy in this area. This means that we really risk losing flagging, for example. the drilling rigs, that we're going to have problems with different offshore ships. If we are talking about wind turbine ships and other offshore ships which, unlike traditional shipping, cannot benefit from the DIS system and tonnage tax, then we have a challenge. If I were a shipping company, I'd just choose another country. Of course, you have to look at where you get your things done in the best quality and at the lowest price. It is not the case that you simply hoist Dannebrog in the office, no matter where you sit, and then say that we do so for Denmark's sake. This is also done for Denmark's sake, by the fact that there are jobs and development, and by the fact that the shipping company can survive. But we cannot do that if we do not continue to develop Danish tax legislation in this area. There I think you sit too much with your arms crossed and don't do enough. The fact is that we are no longer getting the flag, for example. drilling rigs in Denmark. Well, PwC has done an analysis of what they published in the Stock Exchange, I think it was a few days ago that shows and documents that we do not get flagging in Denmark. What does that mean on the bottom line? This means fewer jobs, less growth and less production in Denmark. That's the bottom line. Then you can set all sorts of accounts back and forth etc., but if the alternative is that these things don't come to Denmark, then you lose everything else just the production and the growth in Danish society. That is why it is important for us to have our legislation updated. The proposal here is OK, but certainly not enough, not at all. We are being overtaken by other countries. Singapore's overtaking us. There's a lot more flagging in there. Netherlands, UK etc., which offers better conditions than Denmark. This then leads me to the more general, i.e. that the challenge for maritime Denmark and the offshore industry is a good example of the fact that we will have to adapt to the framework for Danish business so that they will have the best possible competitive conditions. Otherwise, it only costs growth and jobs. That is why we are fighting for better conditions for the business community and, in this case, for Blue Denmark, so that we get a few more drilling rigs, get something done about all the offshore ships, by means of example. will increase DIS taxation and get something done about tonnage tax. This is one of our absolute main demands for the negotiations on the Finance Act, on which we have a dialogue with the government at the moment. We hope that the government will listen to it so that we get the growth back in the Blue Denmark so that growth is not just going to take place in the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165848	Thank you. There's a single questioner so far, and that's Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165852	I can understand that the Conservative People's Party has, of course, just as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, just as the shipowners have a strong desire for the DIS scheme to follow suit. It's not just a tonnage tax, it's a matter of... So we can probably expect a new legislative proposal to come with the DIS scheme in a relatively short time. I would just like to ask something: does it also mean that the person who hated section 10, which prevents Danish professional organisations from representing and organizing the seamen on board DIS ships, also follows with, or could there be a chance that even the Conservative People's Party will propose that it be tampered with in any future proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029165932	I hope there will be a proposal. After all, it is up to the government to listen to its partners and to try to be as business-friendly as possible. So it's an appeal to the government. At least we're doing what we can. We would like to have as similar a scheme as possible, otherwise we will lose those jobs, and that also includes the various paragraphs • there is also § 10 • for our purpose is to ensure growth and production of jobs in Denmark, not in Singapore, in the Netherlands or in the UK.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170008	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170009	No, of course that is what I feared, because that is also what you can see, since it is the development that has happened with Danish shipping companies that are under DIS flags. This is also why, formbrog in many places, among others. among Danish sailors, called flags of convenience. There is not much Danish employment left on the long-distance ships which are under the DIS scheme. Even with Mærsk, who has otherwise held the fan high for a number of years, the number of navigators and this kind of strong on board falls, and cover crew has not been in quite, quite many years on any of the Danish shipping companies' ships on long voyages.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170049	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170050	It is like any other form of productivity improvement, and then you have to look at where you get it done in the best possible way. But as it is in relation to Novo Nordisk, which everyone is talking about today, because they have had a fabulous good account • they have thousands of jobs outside Denmark; they have 30,000 jobs in Denmark • that is also the case with Blue Denmark. Although we have a DIS tax and I recognise that this has meant that there is not so much Danish ship crews on board the vessels.So there are over 100,000 people employed in the maritime cluster in Denmark, and it is only because of the good framework conditions that there are, and of course skilled shipping companies and skilled people who are employed in the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170129	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170135	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the largely positive reception of the proposal. As Minister for Taxation, it is one of my main priorities that business has good and competitive framework conditions, including in the area of tax rules. It is important that our rules are designed to take into account new growth opportunities and new activities and growth opportunities when we talk to shipping companies with special ships providing services to the offshore sector. As several have also mentioned, the maritime industry points out among other things. I believe that in these years there is a sharp increase in the market for the setting up of offshore wind turbines. Martin Lidegaard was involved in setting up, servicing and subsequently dismantling the mills, using a large number of highly specialised vessels. This is what can be called a Danish position of strength, and it is a position of strength that we must maintain and develop and care. I am therefore also pleased that there was a broad conciliation circle consisting of the then government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, which in the summer of 2014 agreed to strengthen the framework conditions for Blue Denmark as part of an agreement on a growth package. With the political agreement and the bill, it is ensured that the framework conditions for Blue Denmark will continue to be attractive, so that we do not lose growth potential. This means that Denmark can maintain its position as a leading maritime nation in the global market. It is, of course, the global issue that is crucial here, and it must also be my attempt to respond to some of the criticisms that have been made from especially Enhedslisten, where we are also faced with a global competition in our taxation of Blue Denmark. And you can be unhappy with that, but you have to take cutlery off and adjust to it if you want to maintain a leading position. The bill means that the tonnage tax scheme is extended by a number of activities typically carried out by offshore companies with special ships, and the government has further extended the tonnage tax scheme in relation to the previous government's draft law, L 124, so that shipping companies with building activities etc. of oil installations at sea will also be able to use the tonnage aid scheme for a large part of their activities. The overall extension of the tonnage tax scheme is considerable and the proposal significantly improves the competitiveness of shipping companies on the global market, which must be said to be tough. I would also like to take this opportunity to say here today to the wishes expressed by, among others, the Commission. The Conservative People's Party and Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, that the government and the Left will of course want the joint motion for a resolution that we have tabled, which proposes further enlargements. But the money has to be found, and it costs something, and there you can of course discuss what it is, but something costs enough if you are to expand further, at least on the DIS scheme, and it has not been possible for us to provide the necessary funding in connection with our draft Finance Act. But that does not change the fact that we have a desire to do so, and I hope that this can happen at a later stage. Hopefully by a broad majority in the Folketing. Then I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place here today, and I would, of course, be happy to answer questions about the details of the proposal and its impact during the committee procedure. As I said, I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170514	Thank you. And so far there is a single questioner. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170519	The Minister will not quite get away with the committee procedure. The Minister mentioned in his ministerial speech here that this is a significant extension of the tonnage tax scheme. At the same time, we must then note that the draft law says that the draft law will result in not significantly less revenue. I think it is highly questionable that in a legislative proposal you do not have a more precise calculation of what this really means economically. If, on the one hand, the Minister says that it is a significant enlargement, but that it is said that it has no significant economic significance, then I do not think it is linked. And I think it would have been appropriate for calculations to have been made about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170619	Well, sir. Henning Hyllested has a good opportunity to ask about it in writing in committee. But you use the basis of assessment that you now have, and I think that, although there is some uncertainty, it is valid, and I, as the tax minister, can stand up to that. If you ask someone in the Blue Denmark, for example. The Danish Shipowners' Association, they will say, wants further expansions, and Mr. Brian Mikkelsen from the Conservative People's Party too. There are also some who challenge the assessment of what it then costs. Some say that it is too expensive and that it is actually cheaper, so less money needs to be found for it. Then there's on the other side, sir. Henning Hyllested, who says it can't be that this doesn't really cost anything. And that is why I believe that the truth is somewhere in between, but we need to find out together whether it is the right assessment that is the basis of the draft law. I have no reason to doubt that the assessment made by the Treasury's economists here is correct, but it is linked to uncertainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170721	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170722	But when I ask, it is because I now have the impression that when we talk about the shipping industry and the tonnage tax scheme and the DIS scheme etc., it is now coated with, I would almost say, dark figures. We'll never really know what this is about. My question is also somewhat prompted by something that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. I do not know whether the Minister is aware of the fact that, in connection with a matter which has been raised by the Maritime Leaders, it has come to light that the government, the Danish state, does not give up correctly to the European Union, what the DIS scheme, for example. costs. And then we're out in the wild, because they think it's just miscalculating. Well, it's gonna be really, really insecure when we talk about this. The scheme is also not in the Finance Act at the request of the shipping companies at the time. It's gonna be so suspicious.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170816	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170817	Well, it's possible that Mr. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten find it suspicious, and suspects the Blue Denmark and shipping companies of a large number of things. I don't want to take part in that suspicion. Blue Denmark and shipping companies are a crux of the Danish economy, and I believe that we must, and the government believes this, ensure politically that they have a very good framework conditions in order to be able to participate in the global competition that is out there, and so tax plays a role. That is why we are proposing an extension of the system and, if we can get a majority together, to find funding for it and, hopefully, to move forward. But the suspicion, as Mr. Henning Hyllested points to, I don't share.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170858	We'll thank the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170912	The debate is open. And I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029170930	The Socialists are, of course, pleased that the government has chosen to retable this draft law on a new procurement law which, at least, is very much the same as what was put forward under the previous government. There is just one major crunch, and I shall come back to that. But of course it is the case that when the public procurement costs 300 billion. kr. Every year, there must be good, transparent and simple rules for it, and this bill is an attempt to create that. It can cheat a bit, when you look at the pile of papers, that this should be a simplification, but at least that is what has been the idea and the intention behind it, in other words to put together the very complicated set of rules in relation to public procurement and to make it more transparent for both contracting entities and tenderers. There are a great many good elements in this proposal, which is therefore also a long way along the way a re-submission of our previous proposal. And just to highlight a number of things that we really welcome, I would like to say that this is good news for our small and medium-sized enterprises, because we are introducing this split-up or explaining principle, which will mean that we can no longer just make these pooled tenders, but that we have to divide them up or at least explain why we are not doing so, so that our small and medium-sized enterprises will be more able to offer in on these divided contracts, which are better suited to their size and capacity. We are also lowering the bar for the level of turnover requirements, and this will also provide opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. So, of course, the Socialists are in favour of promoting the consideration of this proposal that we ourselves made earlier. So far, so good. But, as I said, there is a major crunch that I would like to dwell on a little. Unfortunately, the government has chosen a very important point for us to change the proposal, and we do not agree with that. It is about the possibility of making labelling requirements. Because with the original draft law, we wanted to give public contracting entities the opportunity to make greater use of the labelling arrangements in these invitations to tender. This will support the green transition, i.e. by using this large muscle of demand, which the public procurement is, to promote the green transition. After all, it may be eco-labels, fair trade marks, eco-labels and various labelling schemes which at least make it simpler for the contracting entity to incorporate these sustainability considerations, or whatever it may be, into their tenders. We would like to make it as easy as possible for contracting entities to make use of these label requirements. That is why we proposed the solution which, moreover, is fully in line with the directive. Just in parentheses, one can be a little surprised at the whole debate on over-implementation, and that here we have a proposal in which the government, unlike our proposal, which was in full compliance with the directive, now chooses a non-directive solution on this point in the area of labelling. But our solution made it voluntary for the individual contracting entity to accept what we call the second appropriate documentation. And the hops here are, of course, that, as I said, we would do so voluntarily, while the government is now saying, with this proposal, that we must always accept another appropriate documentation. This means, of course, that we can risk a situation in which contracting entities have to sit with lots of papers and see for themselves whether it is therefore a question of meeting the same criteria or the same requirements that apply to the marks. In our view, this will increase transparency here. We still think it should be easy for the contracting entity to make use of this. We wonder why the government wants to increase administrative burdens or, at least, increase bureaucracy, because that is what happens when we can no longer simply refer to labelling in our tender. This may also lead to suppliers being chosen without meeting the requirements, simply because it becomes imperceptible and difficult for the contracting entity to relate to the many annexes that are then to be looked at. So on this point we will be tabling an amendment at committee reading which brings the draft law back to its original form, as we put it. But, of course, we continue to support a comprehensive procurement law, which we think will be a clear advantage both for the public contracting entities and for the tenderers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029171432	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029171438	The draft law which the government has chosen to put forward here is, of course, a follow-up; when it was originally tabled by the previous government, it did not reach second and third reading here in the Folketing, and therefore the bill is then tabled again. At first reading last time, the Danish People's Party was reasonably positive about the implementation of these elements in relation to the present and existing procurement law. But one thing is that it may get a little better, another is the big question of whether it really is good enough. If you look at the discussions that were all the way back in 2011, when you started discussing, when the EU was about to renegotiate and have a revision of the then and current EU Procurement Directive, we in the Danish People's Party were somewhat critical of it and said that we would actually like to do something more proactive in ensuring that we in Denmark were not hit by the ever-ending bureaucratic trouble that cost money, including for the public authorities. That is also what is being pointed out if you look back in the history books. Both the National Association of Municipalities and the Danish Regions made it clear that it was in fact incredibly inappropriate to have EU tenders in relation to smaller tenders, and you could then see if you went in and looked at it where you were ordered to do so how many of the different invitations to tender had foreign players who really wanted to give a price for the various tasks. And it was even worse if you looked at how few really ended up winning an invitation to tender here in Denmark. The only ones who won and continue to win are those who are paid to produce EU procurement materials in different languages, etc. to comply with all requirements laid down for specifications and documentation. There, we feel, one might have been more ambitious. We also recommended the previous government, when the Presidency of the European Union was held, to exercise its Presidency during the term of the Presidency, but the government chose not to do so. It was not thought that this was where to put the effort, because it was already difficult to get through with the huge changes to the EU Procurement Directive. Now we are dealing with a legislative proposal which contains some of the things on which agreement has then been reached. We would have liked to have seen a larger supply limit, and this was also what KL and Danske Regioner proposed, precisely to ensure that public tax dollars were not to be used to make tender descriptions for something that did not end up in the interest of foreign biders at all. We actually proposed a framework of 10 million. kr., instead of those around 1.2 million. kr., in threshold against EU tender, but it was not something that could be brought together by a majority. What has then been the majority in favour is what has come now, and then we choose here today to legalise the government's proposals on the procedural rules that need to be applied in order to implement the elements that are there. And of course it is also positive that I would like to sign on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we can see that it is made easier for companies with regard to this obligation to provide documentation, so that in future it is only the company that ends up winning an invitation to tender that also has to meet the full and complete documentation requirement. At the same time, it is also a good thing that, when it comes to bidding, we now have clear descriptions of the method of evaluation chosen, and that, of course, creates transparency, including with regard to the individual company. So we recognise that the elements are very intelligent and sensible, but we think it is a pity that we have not had the opportunity to go further. Then I would like to say here at the end of the day that this is an EU directive, of course it does not mean that we should just fall on our tails at home and say that it was fantastic. We also need to maintain our critical approach to it, and in the Danish People's Party we have the clear policy that we do not support EU directives as such; we support them only as far as we think they are beneficial to Denmark on the basis of the legislation in force. We believe that this bill covers something that is of benefit to Denmark overall, but it must, of course, depend on a closer dialogue. We have seen in the past that there have been problems, for example with regard to the provision of services, for example. home help, etc. where in some places there have not been enough demands for the companies that have won. Finally, I should also like to mention that there has also been criticism from Amgros, who says in relation to the actual implementation date of 1 January that they do not believe it is possible to ensure that the supply of medicinal products meets all the requirements and specifications that are there. In fact, this is not possible, and that is why we will have examined whether we cannot have a later date of entry into force than on 1 January, perhaps on 1 April instead. But we look forward to the committee's further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172009	Thank you. There are a number of questions. The first speaker is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172014	Thank you very much. The Danish People's Party tends to be so preoccupied with whether political decisions are taken by politicians or by technicians, and I just want to hear Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, whether it is true that it is important for the Danish People's Party that politicians decide whether to have eco-labels or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172035	I have also been asked about the question of eco-labels, and I am also aware that a change has been made to the original proposal, which was for the first reading earlier this year. But if this is something we agree with, I will look into it in the course of the committee's proceedings. That must depend on the answers that we have to get to the questions that are being asked. That is not something I have answered in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172057	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172059	I would like to sign for this because both the municipalities and Danske Regions have made it very clear that if they are to accept very large piles of documentation and cannot just make environmental demands, it will be more costly for them and it will become more bureaucratic. The way I know the Danish People's Party, it's not something you want. If a political decision has been taken, we must also be allowed to implement it. Then we don't have to make technical obstruction along the back way by someone who doesn't necessarily like these marks. There, the Danish People's Party tends to be very fair. So I would just like to sign off on that so that the rapporteur would like to take a look at that, so that we find the right balance in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172134	Yeah, but I can easily sign for that. So, of course, I think that it should be examined, including the justified criticisms that have been made by various bodies and by some grass roots and others. I also think it is of course worth pointing out that we have also seen in the past that the other EU countries are not so zealous in ensuring that, for example, the Swan brand is not abused. So, of course, we must also be sure that the Danish companies will not be put at a disadvantage than foreign players.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172202	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172205	Does the rapporteur think that we are now spending 300 billion through public funds? kr. That money should also be used to support, what should we say, wider social objectives, so that public funds can also be used in a more strategic way, such as social purposes, employment objectives, etc., within the limits of the law, of course?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172236	I recognise, of course, that in the case of various state and regional tenders we can see that it is the case that there are different criteria for the basis for the assessment, so that it is not only the individual price that applies, but also the overall quality of the offer that has been received. There are different ways of dealing with it. In some places it is individual in relation to CSR or concerning the involvement of disabled people to be part of the workforce or other elements of a supply. Of course, I think there should be room for those elements to be left out, and there should also be room for the individual municipality or region to have the opportunity to make some demands which they think they will emphasise in the context of an invitation to tender. What has to be the king's idea and purpose is, of course, that with this amendment of the law it will be easier, also in advance, to outline what the method of evaluation will be, and that is what is being proposed, at least as a point in the draft law that has been presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172337	The rapporteur referred to this, namely that we should not have pulled down such an EU procurement directive over our heads • we should have done it in the Danish way. However, the EU Procurement Directive provides a very broad framework for what public procurement can be used for. In fact, the EU is proposing that it can be used much wider than the Danish Government is proposing when they say that social, ethical, environmental, employment and so on can be taken into account. etc. That is why I would just like to hear the rapporteur today, and I think I actually got a bit of an answer before the rapporteur has to correct me if there can be just some local considerations, employment considerations. And that is why it is strange, as I hope the rapporteur agrees, that there is absolutely no provision for the purpose of the law, that one can influence society widely through one's procurement law, that one can take these many, many different considerations into account, if that is what one thinks fit both our society broadly and in the best possible way, and perhaps also the local municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172449	In any case, you can put different things in it with flexible legislation, because if you look at the first of the draft laws presented by the Minister for Industry, for example, it says precisely: the draft law lays down the rules of procedure for public procurement. The law aims to create the framework for effective competition in public tasks and to support the simple and flexible implementation of procurement as well as the reduction of the costs associated with public procurement for both public and private enterprises. There I just have to say that I do not believe that this draft law, which is now in place, is going to be much better compared to the paragraph of purpose than what we have today. Anyway, we don't just support per. definition of an EU directive because it comes from Brussels. We are based on whether it will be beneficial to Denmark and Danish interests or not, and of course it must also depend on this bill. And, of course, I cannot know yet what exactly comes in relation to the questions that I know will be put to a great many of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172544	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172549	I would also really like to sign for the openness of the Danish People's Party in looking at this labelling requirement, because I hear it as an opening, in relation to the fact that in committee we should at least look at the change that the government has now made in relation to the original proposal. I just want to know if the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is going to be a more fundamental position from the Danish People's Party. It is a good idea that it is up to, for example, the Danish People's Party. the municipality as a contracting entity to assess whether it will accept what is called other appropriate documentation, which can therefore be very comprehensive documents, and whether it should be a local decision, i.e. whether it should be voluntary for the contracting entity, whether you want to do it or not, or whether it is something we should decide from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172632	I'm telling you, I haven't taken a position on that part of the bill yet. I think it is fair that, as politicians, we should wait for the questions and all the answers that we get to the questions that we ask rather than stand here at first reading and say either yes or no. I say that the criticism that has been raised seems to me to be a reasonable one, it is concrete and it has substance. We must, of course, examine whether it is sensible enough for us to be involved in changing the legislative proposal that has been put forward, but that must depend on the debate that may come next. So as rapporteur, I cannot answer that today. I just recognise that the criticism has come and, of course, it needs to be investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172712	I would just like to sign for that and say that then I look forward to having it discussed in more detail during the committee's proceedings and, of course, hope that the Danish People's Party, in this case too, as I see the Danish People's Party doing in other cases, believes that it is important that there is some decision-making power left, for example. to our municipalities, in terms of how they want politically to make demands in their tenders.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172737	I have no comment to make on that other than that it is quite correctly understood by the rapporteur. Here you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172743	Then we thank the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. And by agreement, there is now a departure from the normal order of rapporteurs, the next rapporteur being Joachim B. Olsen, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029172754	Thank you for giving me that opportunity so that I could reach some negotiations elsewhere. With this bill, we are implementing the EU Procurement Directive in Denmark. There's a very thorough preliminary work behind this bill. Business organisations, trade unions, municipalities, the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority and the Ministry have all been deeply involved in the creation of this bill, the purpose of which is to ensure that citizens get the most for their tax dollars when the public buys on their behalf. In LA, we would like taxpayers to have the opportunity to keep more of their own money, so that taxpayers themselves more determined what their money was spent on. That would be the best way to ensure that citizens are given the most value for their money. However, this new tender law is now important, as municipalities, regions and states buy in over 300 billion. kr. a year. It is therefore important that the regulatory framework is flexible and transparent and that it ensures, above all, effective competition. In our view, this bill is a good step in this direction. However, there is no doubt that this is very complicated legislation. To claim otherwise would be wrong. Therefore, it is also of the utmost importance that this legislation should be evaluated after a few years, so that we can have the opportunity to see whether there are perhaps some things that need to be changed in a better direction if the complexity is unnecessarily high. However, the assessment is that this legislation will bring savings in the order of 800 million. kr., when the legislation is fully phased in in 2018. It is important, when the legislation is adopted here and guidance to be used in the municipalities and in the business community, that the parties are also involved in the process. This is extremely important and we will follow up on whether this is also the case and whether there is satisfaction with the instructions that will be produced afterwards. However, we can support this bill, which is a re-submission and is virtually identical to the legislative proposal put forward by the previous government. I am aware that there are some minor changes, but we could support the draft law before the elections, and we can also support it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173044	Thank you. There's a single questioner so far. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173049	Now Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that what is really important for the Liberal Alliance is that citizens get the most out of their tax dollars. I think it was reasonably quoted. But what about some of these cases where we have seen that municipalities have been forced to accept an offer from a company which they have well known did not pay taxes in Denmark but were located in a tax havens? This is something we have discussed a great deal over the past year. Do citizens get the most out of their tax dollars if the tasks go to companies operating from tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173133	After all, municipalities, states and regions buy lots of goods that are produced abroad and where the companies that produce them pay taxes in other countries, like abroad, in other countries, other states buy goods produced in Denmark by companies that pay taxes here in Denmark. That tax haven is being thrown around a lot from the SF's side. It is just important to bear in mind that it is not an indication that something is being done that is illegal. It is not illegal for a company to have its headquarters located in a country other than Denmark and pay tax in that country. There are plenty of Danish companies who do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173222	There are a number of municipalities that have wanted us to clarify the law so that they can opt out of a company and they are not forced to give an order to a company that they know operates from a tax havens. So let us put aside the disagreement about what is tax havens etc. When there are municipalities that say that they want to avoid being obliged to give the task to this company, but that they cannot, as the law is, should not the municipalities have the freedom to choose for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173300-2	Well, the definition of tax havens is quite important in this discussion. Well, what does tax havens mean? We have the European Union, we have the free movement of goods and capital. This bill has something to do with that, too. So what does SF mean by tax havens? That is what remains so unclear. When a company sells some goods to a municipality in Denmark, does it indicate that they are in tax havens because they do not pay taxes in Denmark? The definition SF has to be a little bit clear on. If it is the case that there is an actual illegal business, then in this legislation there are plenty of opportunities for the state or the municipality, or whoever it is, to opt out of the company. They have plenty of opportunities to do so and, of course, that is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173355	We thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173403	As has already been said, the public sector in Denmark purchases over 300 billion annually. kr., and with the proposal for a procurement law, new rules are laid down for procurement when the government spends a great deal of taxpayers' money. The aim of the proposal is, of course, to ensure that the best possible purchases are made, because we owe it to the taxpayers when we spend their money, but we actually owe it to the companies that offer them. We owe it to them that competition takes place freely and openly, so it is the best companies with the best bids that win the task when the public sends out tasks in tenders. The potential for savings by the public sector is estimated to be around 800 million. kr., i.e. 800 million. kr., which the public sector is saving on this proposal, money that can be released for other and better purposes. We can probably also have a long discussion about how they are to be used, whether it is to reduce taxes or we must prioritise money for other tasks in the public sector, but the draft law is a very good example of how it can be done to get the scarce funds in the public sector to stretch somewhat longer. The preparation of tender documents alone saves 250 to 300 million for the various authorities in the public sector. kr. in connection with the paperwork on the preparation of invitations to tender. This also means something for companies, because they will have an administrative saving of 70 million. kr. in relation to some of the changes that lie. So that sounds really, really reasonable. The proposal is based on the EU Procurement Directive and a Danish committee work on the same. The draft law, as has previously been put forward, has previously been tabled here in the Folketing, but it has lapsed as a result of the June elections. As others have said, the proposal is largely identical to the previous proposal. Corrections have been made in a number of areas concerning labelling, solidarity liability and something as earthy as a grounding system for sockets. These are proposals, in fact, which are closely linked to the recommendations of the Procurement Committee and which aim to make the law clearer and correct errors and shortcomings. As others have also mentioned, it is a large and extremely heavy and, admitted, also complicated legislative proposal, which is nevertheless intended to simplify and provide greater clarity. That is why I would like to highlight only a few key elements of the proposal. Because it is about creating greater clarity about the rules, among other things. rules on when the awarding authorities may engage in a dialogue with the undertakings offering them. It has not been clear when to do so and when not to do so. It will also be specified when small errors in connection with an offer can be corrected • when the service provider can contact those who have offered and say that you think there is some information to be provided and whether it is quite correct, and in this way ensure that there are more offers on the table when you have to make the calculation board up than if you have to reject in advance due to some small formal errors. Small and medium-sized enterprises will also be able to offer public services more easily. Better opportunities are provided for what is called competitive dialogue and negotiated procedures. There is a possibility that tenders may be more than just asking about the price of a specific task or performance, but that the supply through what are called innovation partnerships can also be used to develop new and different solutions to a task problem. It should contribute to innovation, development and innovation, so that public procurement policy supports more that we promote innovation in Denmark. A number of documentation requirements are relaxed for the companies that offer the task, so that it is only the company that wins the task that has to submit full documentation. This is one of the reasons why companies are also relieved of administrative costs with this proposal. In the Left, as I have said, we are very much in favour of ensuring that taxpayers' money is spent in the best possible way, that we get the public sector to go a little further into the liter by buying in smarter and also by increasing competition. We have here a concrete proposal which ensures that. At the same time, competition will be strengthened and it will be easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to offer public services. That is why, of course, we support the proposal of the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173843	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl, the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173848	Now Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, that there are some corrections to this bill in relation to the original bill and that there have been some inappropriate ones. Perhaps I would like to hear the rapporteur clarify a little about whether he also regards the change on labelling arrangements made in the legislative proposal as just a correction, or is this really a substantive change? There has been no new consultation, and one might then wonder when there is such a substantial change of substance as in this proposal. However, there are a lot of people who have approached us and have said that this will lead to more bureaucracy in the contracting entity, because we will now have to decide on this other documentation than labelling systems every time, because we are now required to accept it rather than it is a free choice for the contracting entity. Is that not a substantial change of substance, and what is the justification on the part of the Left for introducing such a substantial change?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029173954	That is precisely a major change, which is also politically justified. I mentioned the three most robust elements in the proposal and some of them may be said to be a little technical. I agree that the labelling system is a clear political choice. There should be no doubt about that. However, it is in fact a change which is in line with what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions has proposed. What is crucial, and you can actually read this in the consultation answers to the proposal that was sent out earlier, is that in the answers from a number of those who bid, the Danish Industry, the Crafts Council, etc., it is said that you are concerned that if you demand that it is only a labelling scheme, you will cut off companies from bidding. For example, it may be small and medium-sized enterprises, for whom it can be associated with a high cost to meet a labelling requirement in general. But if they do, they must have the opportunity to bid. It is, in fact, just the change that is to ensure that more people can bid and help ensure better competition. That's why we made the change.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174104	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174105	The rapporteur does not really relate to what I am asking about increased bureaucracy. Is it not true that when we say that you have to because it may be a very small municipality or a relatively small administration that should then sit and have to deal with very extensive documentation, a work that the labelling schemes do for us in advance? So is it not true that it will result in more bureaucracy? Is it not also correct and now the rapporteur says this with the small and medium-sized enterprises that there are a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises, in fact 117 out of 204 companies that are licensed to the Flower or the Swan?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174155	If you look at this in a purely political way, there is at least a clear difference: the social democracy believes that it is unproblematic to impose a burden on companies, but if the public has to look through a little more papers, it is a major problem. That is just why I say: if a company believes that it does not normally need to be part of a labelling scheme, it has opted out of it; it is a choice; it wants to offer a task where a labelling system is required; it says it is not part of it, because it may also cost, it may require documentation; it may require everything else, but it nevertheless meets the requirements and can prove it, it should not be excluded. I have to say that I hope that this can be done in an easy and unbureaucratic way. And, as I hear from the debate, I think everyone has an interest in letting this happen lightly and unbureaucratically. However, the aim is to ensure that more people can bid, not to weaken the requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174255	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174258	Thank you very much. In fact, I think it is a very sensible answer that we are getting from the rapporteur here. It is very important that the rapporteur says that it is a political decision whether or not to have labelling. And then we actually sit here and talk about how we do it in the best possible way, so that as many companies as possible can be involved, but of course also so that it doesn't become very bureaucratic for the municipality. So I want to hear from the rapporteur whether it should not ultimately be up to the municipality to assess whether the documentation is sufficient; whether it should not be up to the municipality to assess it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174326	I think it is a good thing that there is evidently an understanding that the purpose of saying that there should be either a labelling requirement or that it should be met in other ways is to ensure that as many people as possible can bid. For the more people who can offer, the better the price, the better an offer, you can get. In this context, one can then either choose stubbornly to hold on to the fact that only a certain mark must be in force or whether it can be a company which otherwise meets exactly the same requirements. As far as I am concerned, it is natural that we ensure that companies have the right that if they have not chosen to live up to the mark, but do so in any other way, and I do not think it is necessarily 42 ring binders that must be essential to prove that they do so, they must also be counted in a tender. I think it is fair that we say that if a company meets the same requirements, they should not be excluded. In fact, I think that we in the Danish Parliament can afford to say that these are the conditions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174424	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174426	Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur because it was not quite clear to me whether we also have a common interest in avoiding as much bureaucracy as possible, so that a municipality decides that the documentation is sufficient or not, so that it is actually the buyer who sits and has to take a position on this, which can say that he or she does not think this is appropriate documentation, rather than having to go into a long legal process about whether to accept something which, according to the Modernisation Agency, can lead to agreements that do not meet the requirements and which the Association of Public Purchasers says can lead to cheating. So I hope that the rapporteur will agree with us that it is, of course, the municipality that will ultimately have to decide whether the documentation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174507	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174508	The crucial thing for me and for the Left is that this should be as easy and flexible as possible, and whether this should be precisely one or the other model, I will take a non-biased discussion on so that we can achieve what is essential, namely to ensure that we have clear, easy and flexible procurement rules that ensure that as many companies as possible are offered. I agree that it should not be hassle and bureaucratic. There I am quite sure that we have a common interest, and then let us look at whether it has just been written quite correctly now or whether there are corners to look at. I will look at that without prejudice in further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174541	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029174548	Thank you very much. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill as it stands. We recognise that it contains some important improvements to public authorities' ability to make demands for social, environmental and economic sustainability, including requirements for respect for workers' and human rights. However, we would like to question how much new there is in it, or whether it is essentially a combination of possibilities which already exist but which are only spread over a wide range of different legislations. Of course, it makes sense to combine these rules into one law, but that does not change the fact that the law as well as the directive's aim is to open up all public procurement to competition and subject them to EU procurement rules. We simply disagree that effective competition in the sense of the legislative proposal and the European Union is the best way to use public funds. At the same time, we are in principle opposed to privatising social and health services. This should only be done in exceptional cases where the public authorities themselves are not in a position to resolve them at short notice. Therefore, under no circumstances can we endorse legislation which, as one of its objectives, aims to increase competition for welfare services. It will harm the citizens and it will damage security of supply. It is a waste of public resources and it will go beyond democratic control of these services. If some people want concrete examples of this, one can just look at the current bankruptcies in home care, where some 7,000 citizens and many hundreds of employees have been affected, not to mention the taxpayers who have had to finance the clean-up after the bankruptcies. The draft law does not in itself entail an obligation to privatise these or other services, but it means that the provision of social and health services will be much more subject to competition considerations. The legislation will therefore support a tendency for the awarding authority, state, regions and municipalities to look solely at the price. This will be supported by the severe economic pressure exerted on all public authorities during these years in the form of a tight financial framework, re-priority contribution, etc. It is also supported by the fact that there are no obligations for the awarding authority to require social and environmental sustainability when submitting public procurement tasks. We in the Enhedslist believe that this is also possible within the framework of the directive as long as there is no discrimination. Enhedslisten shares the criticism of the bill made by Danske Handicaporganisationer og LOS. As the two organisations point out, most social offers are not suitable for tender processes at all as proposed. The proposed light regime does not provide the necessary assurance that the interests of users are taken into account. The proposed options for derogating from the procurement rules and instead conducting the procedure through negotiation are explicitly described as exceptions which can only be used in exceptional circumstances, which are otherwise not clearly defined. It is positive that a public authority can reserve the contracts to social economic undertakings, but it is limited by the fact that such contracts may not last longer than three years and that there is also a three-year waiting period. It can, for example. require a child to change his or her location every three years, which may be detrimental to the child's development. In general, we, like a number of the consultation parties, believe that there are many uncertainties in the legislative proposal, particularly as regards the possibility of derogating from the general procurement rules and the question of when public procurement is of cross-border interest. It is, of course, scandalous in itself. This increases the risk of legal proceedings against public service providers, in which the European Court of Justice will have to lay down the rules even more. In addition, we will refer to the joint consultation response of the IBIS, Amnesty International, Interfolk Cooperation and others. These are extremely relevant proposals for changes that will strengthen the public contribution to sustainability and social responsibility. Unfortunately, these proposals will not be followed by the government. I would also like to express my deep regret, as other rapporteurs have done, that the government has deteriorated the legislative proposal under consideration in the spring. On important points such as labelling, quality standards, etc. Nevertheless, the government will not take advantage of the opportunities offered by the directive. Here we share the criticism of the Socialist rapporteur. The Enhedslisten will table the necessary amendments to correct errors and shortcomings in the bill. It is absolutely essential for us to establish that services in the social and health and cultural fields are only offered to organisations and companies that meet the requirements of section 190. Here the word must be replaced with shell. If our amendments are adopted, we can vote in favour of the bill. Otherwise we will vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029175059	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029175115	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start with a few quotes: Public procurement plays a key role in the Europe 2020 strategy and it continues: as one of the market-based instruments to be used to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. It continues again: it is in order to enable purchasers to make better use of public procurement in support of common social objectives. It is fantastic to be able to read a directive which highlights it here in support of community goals, because how good it would be if, as a society, we were better at working the same way, that we worked better together to solve the challenges we face as a planet, as a country, as an international actor, including here in the Folketing, public institutions, private companies and civil society. It is therefore a pity that the government has not taken the opportunity to turn the new procurement law into a serious tool that could help our society in a more responsible and sustainable direction. As was apparent from the quotations I made at the beginning of my speech, it was in fact also the intention behind the directive which L 19 is to implement, but it seems that the intentions have disappeared in the Danish translation. There are also other things that have slipped into the process, such as the clarification of the use of labels that others have mentioned. I know that the Minister is very concerned that Denmark should not over-implement directives from the European Union, and that may be fine, but I think we should be very careful not to start under-implementing what we see in this legislative proposal. I have said this before, and I will say it many times again, that as a society we cannot continue to work only with this one bottom line, which is about the economy. We need to work on all three bottom lines, both social, environmental and, of course, economic. This is a law which sets the framework for public spending of some 300 billion. kr., of course also do, and we would like to help the government with that. That is why I can already say that we in the alternative will table a number of good, constructive amendments and questions when the work of the committee begins. I hope, of course, that the Minister wishes to engage constructively in finding a good solution where we can all be involved, because I think it would be very good if we could be in common here in the Danish Parliament on a law that would set the framework for public spending of around 300 billion. kr. On the other hand, I promise to be pragmatic when I come up with our amendments, because I know that we will most likely go a great deal further than many other parties would like in this area. However, as the proposal stands at the moment, I have to say that we cannot support it, but we are very much looking forward to getting into the work of the committee and helping to bring about a more direct implementation of the directive by the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029175405	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029175413	From the point of view of the Radicals, we are very concerned that public procurement is being done as smartly as possible, as cheaply as possible and as intelligently as possible, so that as many solutions as possible can be found to as many problems as possible. And sometimes by buying in a little smarter you can save a lot of money on the long track. By thinking more globally, you can choose solutions that make everything cheaper in the municipality and at the same time actually mean major environmental improvements, for example. So it is very, very important that public procurement becomes an active tool that can be used politically. That is why I have been pleased to hear today that the Left in particular has made it very clear that when it comes to public procurement, it is a political choice whether or not there should be marks. In other words, it must be a political decision to use marks, and that is how far we agree. It should not be a technical decision, but a political decision. The changes that have taken place since the last time we dealt with this legislation may seem like they are pulling a little in the direction that it is no longer the politicians who decide whether to make these demands here, but that it will be more a kind of technical assessment of whether enough documentation has now been provided, where they will then have to sit and discuss whether this is now meeting the requirements. And it will make it very bureaucratic for buyers who sit and have to deal with, I don't know how many cases they suddenly need to read their way through a lot of pages. I also see that in a 2014 note, the Modernisation Authority considers that this could even lead to people who do not meet the requirements being given the tasks. And as I have heard today's debate, I do not think it is the intention to undermine the demands in this way, but instead to be a political choice, and therefore, while we want many people to be able to bid, we also ensure that there is no bureaucracy. If you tell the municipalities that they should the Association of Public Procurementers say that it will be difficult to verify other documentation. I also think it is a rather important question how many forces the municipality needs to use to verify other evidence. We have just seen a great scandal about Volkswagen, where it is absolutely crucial that there is some verification of what people are coming and saying. In my view, it is quite crucial that a municipal purchaser, when he or she has to live up to a municipality's decision, is comfortable with what you decide and what you ultimately buy. Even the Modernization Authority says in this note that saying that the municipalities I shouldn't even hear the Left so that it was the intention of this. I think it would be very good if we could find a solution where we can ensure that as many as possible can bid that the municipalities have the opportunity to say if they want it not only to be brands, but that it could also be other appropriate documentation, and that the municipality can then choose it, but that it is ultimately the municipality that decides whether something meets the requirements or meets the requirements, so that we get something that is unbureaucratic and easy, and so that it becomes a political decision whether you want to have marks or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029175742	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029175759	It's a very festive backdrop with a little outside entertainment when we're forced to be in here tonight. However, I think that what we are discussing today is an extremely important legislative proposal. It's about how we spend the 300 billion. kr., which the government buys for every year. It is so much money that it can turn society in one direction or another, depending on how you spend the money. This is a unique opportunity to turn society in a more social and environmentally sustainable direction and, in fact, it offers the European Union's Procurement Directive a fantastic opportunity to do so. The Procurement Directive was adopted at the beginning of 2014 and is to be implemented in Danish law by 1 April 2016. We've been through this round once before, well over six months ago, so there had actually been enough time to improve this bill, but unfortunately, in the eyes of many of my colleagues, including my own, it has deteriorated along the way. When the Procurement Act was first dealt with in the last session, we received a joint consultation response from a number of grassroots organisations, something that my colleagues from the Enhedslisten also mentioned on the FSC label, World Forests, Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, Interfolk Samvirke, IBIS and others. and, not to forget, Herning Municipality, which, as you know, has a distinguished Leftman as mayor. That was a really good, really good, long and qualified consultation response. The consultative bodies criticise the fact that neither representatives of the development, human rights or environmental organisations have been represented in the Procurement Law Committee, nor have the Ministry of the Environment been represented. And that is actually quite strange in that the European Union's Procurement Directive directly calls for the palette to be extended and for broad social considerations to be taken into account. There are increased opportunities to take ethical and environmental considerations into account, because it says that it should be possible for public purchasers to make better use of public procurement to support common social objectives. Quote out. It should, of course, be included in the purpose clause of the Procurement Act that we want to support the interests of people, the environment, employment and the economy as a whole, including a fair tax practice, and I would like to table an amendment on behalf of the SF. Furthermore, it is strange that the list of criteria from which a contracting entity must exclude an undertaking does not cover all human rights violations; nor does it address workers' rights, and that should also be corrected. The Danish procurement law could also strengthen the fight against tax havens and tax evasion, because there is ample scope for this in the EU directive. It is therefore a clear opt-out by the government and thus the government is guilty of squandering taxpayers' money, which makes us a laughing stock for our own money. There are a number of cases where municipalities and regions have called out and asked us in here to make a procurement law where there was greater scope to opt out of companies that cheat on the weight, among other things. Frederiksberg, Gribskov and Silkeborg Municipalities, just as the Region of Southern Denmark has also asked for opportunities to avoid being ridiculous for their own money and not being forced to cooperate with companies that they know are cheating on weight. The EU directive clarifies that Member States may provide that contracting entities may not use prices alone, but may take broad social considerations. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to ignore this completely, here alone it is price, cost and best price-quality ratio. There is nothing about social, socio-economic or environmental considerations. It's a huge loss. Finally, I would also like to mention the labelling systems, as well as Annex 2a and Annex 2b, services which my fellow Members have mentioned, as areas that we should also look at. However, as the proposal stands at the moment, I do not welcome it very much. I hope that this is fundamentally changed, because it is a big and important bill that we could do a lot of good things with if we were just a little more forward-looking in terms of spending society's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180218	No one has submitted for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Brian Mikkelsen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180229	We've been through this discussion relatively many times lately when we discussed it on the basis of the SR government's bill. What makes it easier to discuss such a large and complex basis, which is also so important for our infrastructure, there are therefore calls for 300 billion. kr. In the public sector there is, of course, a committee that has been sitting and looking at it, and almost all the recommendations of that committee have been adopted by the government. There is, of course, the whole discussion on labelling, which I will discuss in a moment when the recommendation is not fully followed, but otherwise the recommendations are being followed across the board. I think that is important; it is good and it is relevant. There's been a lot of work going on here. Why is this so important? Yes, if we are to have private companies involved in these tenders on a qualified basis, if we are to get the most out of our tax dollars, if we are to have a foundation and solidity in relation to our private companies, then it is important that there is a proper structure in order to be able to bid. According to the proposal here, it is estimated that it can generate savings of 800 million. DKK, when it is fully phased in in 2017 • 800 million. kr. That's a lot of money, too. So we can support the proposal here. Finally, on the whole labelling, I think it is a good thing that companies are included in labelling schemes. It certify, it provides clarity, and it provides simplicity. However, it may also be difficult, it may also be a bureaucratic burden, that you have to be connected to a label in order to go into a procurement process. So I am going to keep a close eye on this proposal and I would also like to call on the government to evaluate it in relation to the bureaucracy that exists in the municipalities and to ensure that companies remain unnoticed. But we basically want to make life easier for companies, so we are in favour of the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180428	Thank you. There has been one brief comment, and that is Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180432	I am very pleased to hear that the conservatives support the use of eco-labels as a company for a competitive advantage and that it may be good to drive green development, that there are eco-labels that can be used as a means of achieving clarity in an area. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he also sees public procurement as an opportunity to drive innovation and drive development and make a move which, as such, can also help inspire companies to improve in a wide range of areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180505	Yes, I think it is a good idea to use it as part of innovation and development, but again I think it should be on a voluntary basis. In this way, companies and the public sector will also be involved much more in such cooperation, and this can help to create some other forms of synergies, but compulsory schemes provide bureaucracy, it gives trouble and not a unity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180527	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180529	Fortunately, these are not compulsory schemes, which are what we are discussing today. In reality, whether it is a political choice or not, i.e. whether it is a municipality that has to decide whether it wants it here or not. It is not us, as a state, who come and put one or the other over them. Does the rapporteur agree that it is really important that it is the choice of the municipality or the purchaser, the contracting entity, whether you want eco-labels or not, i.e. that it is a political decision, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, whether you want eco-labels or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180601	After all, the proposal calls for an eco-label, understood in the sense that if, for example, we do not have a label, we do not have an eco-label. Talking about the swan mark, the municipality can write that they prefer that the things that lie in the swan mark should go further in the process. What you may be worried about, and that is also why I think we should evaluate it in a year's time or at any given time, is whether it provides too much bureaucracy for the municipalities in relation to that process, because we do not object to promoting the marks.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180630	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180634	Does the rapporteur remember the two companies Attendo and Aleris? You came under the spotlight a year ago when there was a DR documentary on tax havens which showed how this tax haven in Luxembourg could channel its profits out of the country? At that time, there was a Left Mayor in Gribskov, Kim Valentin, who was furious, because he had just contracted some care assignments to one of these two companies, and he said: I will not spend the tax dollars of my municipality's citizens to outsource something where the profits are then channelled out of the country. Well, he's a left-wing fortress, so he's got no problem outsourced, that's clear. That is not what the discussion was about, but that he had spent tax dollars on a company that he then found out afterwards that he could not avoid working with, because he was not allowed to opt out of it for the sole reason that they sent the profits out of the country via this Luxembourg Fint. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Should we in the European Union work to ensure that this can be something that needs to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180743	In any case, I am firmly convinced that we should not be more sacred than the pope on behalf of the municipality and taxpayers of the municipality in question. If you comply with the legislation in force, you must, of course, have the opportunity to bid for tasks. The way to get rid of the tax-payers is through European regulation, so I have no objection to a common translator, a common European umbrella over this, but one should not make oneself more sacred than all sorts of others, knowing that on behalf of the municipality it is on behalf of the citizens that a mayor then tries to be sacred and will buy things more expensive, even if the legislation is being observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180825	Mrs. Lise Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180830	Now this is most likely illegal. In any case, Commissioner Vestager has indeed initiated an illegal state aid case, which can also be described as tax fraud in a nice way as far as Luxembourg is concerned. So there's definitely a case going on. But isn't it kind of condescending to say that a mayor is sacred on behalf of his citizens, because he thinks that when he outsources something, which he thinks is a good idea, he would like to make it a company that pays taxes in Denmark? After all, it is also some of the tax crowns that go back to the municipalities, which he can then buy welfare tasks from the private sector for and therefore get even more private initiative. Is it sacred on behalf of your citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180918	I am not talking at all about any specific case, nor about the tax dispute or anything else. I am asked a question of principle. If companies comply with the country's legislation, they must, of course, also give the companies concerned the opportunity to bid. As far as the Luxembourg Fin is concerned, I find this extremely problematic, and I am completely indignant and indignant that some companies are using these tricks and that Luxembourg may have been involved in this. It must, of course, be examined in greater detail, even though they have at first received a penance for it. You have to look into that. But I am talking about something in principle. If a company complies with the country's legislation, they must, of course, be allowed to bid, it is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029180956	Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181002	It was actually just because the rapporteur came to say here that at least there should not be compulsory arrangements, that is to say there should not be a compulsory requirement for one to have marks. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that this proposal is not, of course, a mandatory requirement for labelling, but that what we proposed with the original draft law was precisely to make it a free choice for contracting entities, whether labelling would be required and whether another appropriate documentation would be accepted, whereas the government is now saying that they should:
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181039	I am very, very aware of that, but the reason why I think, after all, that the present government's proposal is better is that it means less bureaucracy for businesses. It means less trouble. I would like to look at how much trouble this will cause for the municipalities. I think we should have a discussion on this, and I would also call on the Minister to look regularly at whether this will cause extra trouble for the municipalities. But what is crucially important to me is that the government's proposals are less burdensome for companies. This makes it easier for them to be business, and I would like to make life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises in Denmark in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181114	Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181117	I was also aware that the rapporteur said that we should evaluate this in terms of whether it creates more bureaucracy. Of course I'll sign for that. I think it is a good thing that at least the Conservative rapporteur is aware of this. I would like to insist on the recognition that was also given by the Conservative rapporteur in relation to the importance of labelling systems as a possible driver of innovation and for green conversion. I just want to hear, now that the Conservatives have, at least in some cases, got a little bit up on the green branch again, even if this is not the case here too, that it is important for the Conservative People's Party too that it is a question that we use public demand to also drive a green switch, and that it is important that it is also easy for the contracting entity to ensure that we use that option.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181207	There are two leads in the question. Yes, I think that the public sector should help drive green growth. That is why we have also fought hard to increase EUDB appropriations in the negotiations that have been going on now and here. There we think we lack a little co-play from others in those discussions too, because there was a focus on all sorts of other things. As far as labelling is concerned, I am for marks. I think that the swan mark and other marks are good for conversion. They are good for innovation, they are good for making demands, but again it is vitally important for me that it is voluntary. If I had an SME, I would probably say that we should be part of the various brands, because that would help drive forward some good processes, but it must be voluntary whether or not we are included in such a labelling scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181248	We do not have any more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur, and then we have finished the rapporteur's series, and then we give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181301	Thank you for the many comments that have been made on the draft law, on which we have just heard the views of the parties. Let me start by saying that what we are discussing today is, of course, the first Danish procurement law in which we set the overall framework for effective competition for public procurement. It will ensure good procurement and it will also reduce the cost of supply. The Procurement Act will significantly reduce the cost of procurement, both for the public and for the private sector. We expect the costs of tendering to be reduced by 70 million. kr. a year and that public procurement costs will be reduced by approximately 250-300 million. kr. When we put the impact we expect from competition on top of that, it is our assessment that, overall, we get up to 800 million. kr., when the law is fully phased in. It is a really good day for Danish society, because here we are proving that using the market in a sensible way can also make more of the money we spend. So basically, cut to the bone, the new law is about creating the framework for neither the public nor the companies wasting time, effort and money on bad tenders. After all, the draft law here is based on the product produced by a unified and broadly based procurement law committee with the participation of both the public and the business community. A large number of rapporteurs have already mentioned the content of the draft law. Because it is the case when municipalities, regions and states buy in that, as many have said, there are huge sums at stake. Together they buy in annually for approx. 300 billion. kr. corresponding to about one sixth of Denmark's GDP. That is why it is also important that we have a good framework for procurement. It is the Government's ambition that we should have a Danish procurement law that will, as far as possible, lead to greater clarity, simplification and flexibility with the lowest possible procurement costs for both contracting entities and companies. And I think that has actually succeeded with the legislative proposal that has been put forward. Nor should I conceal the fact that this is still a rather complex set of rules, because we are implementing, as some have said today, a comprehensive and detailed EU directive. However, a Danish procurement law in itself creates greater clarity about what the rules will involve, because a number of rules are brought together in one law, and because the legal notes help to make the rules easier to understand. It also makes it easier to use in practice. There is also greater clarity in a number of areas where there have been doubts about the possibility of amending a contract during its term. For companies, the draft law provides for a number of improvements, including: the draft law requires the public contracting entity to describe in the tender documentation the method of evaluation chosen. This, in turn, creates greater transparency for businesses. The draft law also ensures simplification, among other things. We go completely away from advertising obligations for certain small purchases, and companies' obligation to provide documentation is facilitated by the fact that, in future, only the winning company will have to submit full documentation. When it is generally easier for companies to participate in invitations to tender, it is particularly beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. SMEs. The draft law also contains concrete initiatives aimed at SMEs. We oblige the public authorities to consider whether a task can be divided into smaller parts, and we limit the level of requirements for business turnover. All of this is very good and necessary, as we have heard in the political debate over the last few years, that many people have called for it. The bill also makes it possible to require certain marks. This can make it easier for the public to ask, for example. environmental requirements and make it easy for companies to demonstrate that they meet the requirements of the label. At the same time, effective competition for public tasks is important, with smaller companies also being able to participate. The government proposes that the public sector should always accept other appropriate evidence that companies meet the requirements of a brand so that all companies that meet the requirements can participate. Let me conclude by saying that the new rules also offer greater flexibility. The public sector will have better opportunities to make use of dialogue with private companies. It's good for everyone. This ensures that we get as much money as possible for our tax dollars, and it allows companies to play their part with their expertise and create space for innovation. Let me then also sign up to many of the comments that have fallen during the debate and say that in my world, of course, I am inviting a dialogue on the issue raised in relation to labelling. It is from both the Social Democrats and the Radical Left and a number of other parties. And I would like to say that I have no interest whatsoever in creating a bureaucratic monster in relation to the municipality of Denmark, and I am actually convinced that this can quite well be resolved during the committee procedure. At any rate, I would like to signal here today that I am going into that debate with a very open mind, because I believe that this law is too important for us to have a long political discussion on a point on which, in fact, I believe it can be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181833	Thank you. We go to the question round and the first is Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181838	I would, of course, very much like to acknowledge the last point, that is to say the opening that the Minister is making here, in order to be able to discuss some of the concerns that we are a number of people who have expressed today in relation to the possibility of making demands on labelling. For one of the concerns is that it has simply been pointed out, among other things. In the case of the Modernisation Authority itself, it would therefore be possible to have a situation where suppliers could be chosen without really meeting the labelling requirements or the same requirements as the brands do. And that would undermine our labelling systems. I just want to know whether the Minister recognises this, that it would be possible to find a situation if we, as a contracting entity, had to deal with these very extensive documentation requirements, which other appropriate documentation will of course provide, that is to say that we could find ourselves in a situation where we would actually undermine the labelling systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029181937	Thank you. I do not share the analysis that the chosen model will undermine the labelling system, but that is exactly what I would like to make more of in the discussion we will have during the committee procedure. I note that this question has been raised and I have also read the answers to the hearings. But I can at least say that what is intended for me as a minister is not that we should get into that situation, and so, among other things, it must. I'm the minister who has to prove why we don't end up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182010	Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182012	Again, of course, I would very much like to sign for that. One wonders, of course, that when the government has taken, I understand from the rapporteur of the Left, a political choice to change the original proposal of the previous government, some of these considerations have been taken into account as to what may be the consequences of choosing a different model. But peace be to it. At any rate, I note here today that the Minister is open to discussing the concerns that have been expressed here and, of course, hope that in this way we can land on a solution that will not make it more bureaucratic and will not undermine our labelling systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182048	But, you know, I'm just trying to reach out a hand, and you have to be careful because you can get it knocked back in your head fast. So let me put it this way: I think that the Conservative rapporteur, Brian Mikkelsen, expressed it very clearly earlier on this whole issue, namely that right now we are trying to help some of the small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to the whole issue of the fact that if you are not part of a labelling system, you still have the opportunity to participate in the whole issue of tendering. Having said that, however, I have also read the consultation answers, and I will assess that this is an important theme, of course. However, in relation to the whole very ambitious proposal, which seems to be a fairly broad support for here in the Danish Parliament, I think this is a question of explaining the whole question of appropriate documentation and the whole question that has now been raised in this debate today. So I think it is possible to do that in questions to me as a minister, which I am given the opportunity to answer, or through what we have discussed here today, and I am fully aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182151	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182156	Thank you, President. As I mentioned briefly in my own rapporteur's speech, we had received some inquiries from, among others. Amgros, who among other things... is responsible for ensuring the purchase of hospital medicine, which is at least one of the hot topics here in Denmark in terms of price development and competition and the desire to get more for the money. It has been said on the part of Amgros that the case is that the date of implementation of this bill actually means that there will be problems in relation to the rules of the European Commission on the submission of electronic procurement documents, which currently do not appear to be clear and published by 1 January 2016. And that, of course, gives an organisation and a company such as them some challenges in relation to the fact that the law here is already planned to enter into force on 1 January 2016. There, of course, I would like the Minister not to say whether or not we want to move the date here and now, but that at least we want to ensure that these things are clarified, particularly in relation to the criticisms that have been made and the concerns that have been raised by Amgros, who is, of course, handling large amounts of money in relation to the Danish regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182306	Since I am generally a kind minister until proven otherwise, I would, of course, like to clarify the question which has now been raised. I am sorry that I did not just get the answer to that in my remarks. So, yes, of course, I would like to clarify that. It also gives me the opportunity to say that there are, of course, a lot of people out there in Danish society who are waiting for this procurement law to come into force, a great many. And since I have also examined how much money the public and private companies are going to get in terms of savings, it must also be included in the picture. But it is clear that the whole question of medicine and the concerns that have been raised today through Hans Kristian Skibby on behalf of Amgros will be addressed. Questions have now been asked about this, and I shall, of course, look into it. I do not know exactly what the specific questions are, but I think I will be wiser, and I will come back with answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182359	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182403	Thank you. Then we move on to the next question, and that is with regard to the evaluation of the procurement law. After all, the Minister himself mentioned that this is almost the first procurement law, but it could not be an initiative by the Minister that we should also ensure that an evaluation is carried out after, for example, two years in connection with the creation and adoption of the law, so that, among other things, we can do something about it. Is there an increase in the number of complaints in the procurement procedure with the right to appeal? This is also the case with regard to whether there have been more ombuds, that is, where cases have had to change because of the law. Such things will, of course, be provided in connection with, for example, an evaluation of the procurement law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182452	I also believe that the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, mentioned the question of evaluation, and for me it always makes sense when there are parties that want to evaluate the legislation we are making to look at it. Then you can always discuss in what form it should be and after how many years, but yes, I think that can be common sense. How long will it take to discuss this matter, and so I am not prepared to give an answer to it today. But yes, I look with an open mind at the fact that we must also evaluate what we are now setting in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182528	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182532	First of all, I would very much like to sign for one of the few parliamentary sessions I have been to, where we actually talk and where we are trying to find each other. I would really like to acknowledge to the Minister that we are doing this. The only thing I would just like him to perhaps confirm from the platform is that which his party colleague, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen said that it is a political choice, whether you want these eco-labels or not, that it should not be a technical choice, but that it is, like politicians, who decide whether you want the labels in a municipal council, for example. or another contracting entity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182611	So, there I have to say that it is mutual and that I also appreciate the fact that we can have a political discussion here in the Assembly. It's good to be able to have it. But yes, of course it has to be a political choice if you want to go the way in relation to brands. And then I have understood very well the many questions that have been asked, whether you have the political choice that some are critical of today, i.e. whether the political choice exists, what appropriate documentation is available, and the whole question of whether it is a very large administrative system imposed on the municipalities. Nor do I have any interest in imposing more administration on municipalities than is absolutely necessary, so I think we all share that interest. And that is where I reach out to say that I think it is possible to clarify this, which means that some of the comments that have been made and some of the scenarios that some people fear are obviously not going to come true.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182710	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182714	I had actually turned off the microphone because I had little more to add than just saying thank you to the Minister for that approach to things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182729	Well, then I think I'll have to say thank you, too, but leave it at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182731	Then we have no more speakers, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182801	The debate is open. We give the floor to the first rapporteur. It is from the Socialists and it is Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182812	L 20 is a re-submission of the legislative proposal which was tabled in the spring but which, of course, lapsed due to the parliamentary elections. Since the draft law was originally put forward by a social democratic government, it is no surprise that we can also support the draft law here this time. This means that the rules on requirements for the financial sector in Greenland are tightened in terms of capital requirements and liquidity and information requirements, so that the same requirements are made in Greenland as in Denmark and the rest of the EU. There is great support for this in Greenland, as it is important to ensure a level playing field for Greenland's financial institutions in order to provide capital and liquidity on the international market. This is important for the assessment of Greenlandic financial institutions, and therefore it can also influence the possibility of offering funding both to companies and to private individuals under competitive conditions. Bearing in mind that the proposal is also supported by Greenland's self-government and is welcomed in Greenland, the Socialists also support the proposal. And I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur, Martin Lidegaard, and say that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182926	Thank you. No one has pressed into the series of questions, so we thank the rapporteur and move forward in the rapporteur's line. It's from the Danish People's Party, and it's Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029182936	Thank you. When you have your debut here on the platform, you can be a little nervous about being thrown to the lions, but I can see that it thins out a little in the lion flock this evening. This is probably due, as the Socialist rapporteur said, to the fact that L 20 is a re-submission of a proposal which was already under consideration in the last period, but which, as some other legislative proposals, was stopped by a parliamentary election. The draft law, which aims to bring Greenlandic financial legislation into line with international standards and thus the standards to be met by Danish financial institutions, will thus increase confidence in Greenland's financial institutions and thus contribute to future guaranteeing the possibility of continued Greenlandic financing of Greenlandic companies and Greenland's private households. It is important for the Danish People's Party to ensure a sensible development of Greenland and a sensible development for the people of Greenland, and it is our clear conviction that this bill contributes to this, which is why we can support the proposal and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183056	Thank you. No one has come to terms with the question, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183108	Thank you. As has already been said, the draft law is a resubmission of L 129 from the last session, which was not completed before the parliamentary elections, and, as has already been said, it is basically that the Capital Requirements Regulation should also apply to Greenland. For the financial sector, one of the areas that has not been legally transferred to Greenland is that we in the Folketing should adopt the legislation here, and it makes very good sense that the rules that we have agreed should apply in the EU should also apply to Greenland. Because with the implementation of the Capital Requirements Regulation, we are precisely ensuring that the financial sector is made more resistant to economic crises and more robust, and of course these are issues that are as relevant in Greenland as they are in Denmark and in the rest of the European Union. So I am not going to go into the substance of the proposal in detail. The proposal, as everyone knows, is a small matter of only 515 pages, and I am sure we can examine each other many times during the committee work, but I will wait for that in the course of the many long meetings in committee. I just want to say that we supported the bill when it was in the Parliamentary Chamber last time, and we support it this time too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183227	There are no authors, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183251	Thank you. Inatsisartut has, of course, approved this legislation, and on that basis the Enhedslisten will vote in favour today, since, as far as possible, we are following Greenland's wishes to the legislation that is to apply in Greenland. But the bill needs a few words on the way. In fact, we have tried to warn our Greenlandic colleagues about this legislation. In our view, there are two major problems. One is that the EU legislation that will subsequently be implemented will be implemented by the Danish Government by means of decrees, just as royal regulations will abolish the old rules, which will then become superfluous. This means that the Greenlandic Parliament will have no influence on the implementing rules. They get them to consult, but they have no control, and there is no right of veto. The second is the very principle of this legislative proposal, where some improvements have been made, but there is also the condition that, if you have first signed on to this, you will not be able to make more far-reaching demands than are apparent from the EU rules and the regulation and the directives that lie behind it. The European Union's demands on the banks are no protection against a new financial crisis. It might be that Greenland wanted to impose more stringent requirements on banks' holdings of capital, liquidity, supervision, etc. etc. than those contained in the EU rules, and that possibility is cut off unless you can convince not 27 EU countries, but actually 28 EU countries, because you have to convince the Danish government if the rules are to be changed. And that is virtually impossible, given that Denmark has already adopted the same rules, which, as you know, Enhedslisten has also voted against, and that is why we want to warn our Greenlandic friends. The result is that in Greenland they are going to hand over crucial sovereignty over their financial sector to the EU without the prospect of winning it back unless they can pull Denmark out of the EU and it is probably not just around the corner and we think that is a rather strange place to end up for a country that has decided to stand outside the EU. Of course, we regret that it has not been possible to convince our Greenlandic friends that it would be sensible to stay out of this legal complex and instead introduce the necessary rules through an independent decision in Inatsisartut. It would then be possible to go further and adopt more progressive legislation than is proposed here. I think that would be sensible given the fragile Greenlandic economy. However, we must of course take note of the fact that the representatives of the Greenlandic people want this legislation, and since there is no question of any violations of workers' or human rights, we will vote in favour of the draft law with this lovingly thought warning.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183541	We thank the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183554	With this re-submission and examination today, we are, of course, primarily observing the internal agreement we have here in the Danish Parliament that we will only deal with Greenland legislation once the Greenland Parliament and the Greenland Government have dealt with the matter, and they have done so, and the mood is positive in both places. Indeed, the Liberal Alliance does not object to the same requirements being observed in Greenland regarding financial institutions as in Denmark and the European Union. The Capital Requirements Regulation supports a well-functioning market with fair conditions of competition. At the same time, it benefits both consumer protection and the protection of financial institutions, and it should therefore of course apply to the whole Kingdom community. Adopting the bill will ensure a uniform regulation in the financial field throughout the Kingdom community, so that there is no uncertainty as to the applicable rules for investments in Greenland. In the financial field, the legislation in Greenland is based on Danish and therefore not least on EU legislation. This is among other things. necessary in order to maintain a competitive banking sector in Greenland. Adoption will bring Greenland's legislation into line with international financial standards. If this does not happen, it could, on the other hand, result in increased costs for Greenland's banks and thus additional costs for private borrowers and industry in Greenland, thereby also reducing competitiveness. It is therefore also important that this updating of legislation should take place as soon as possible. The Liberal Alliance sees no possible alternative and can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183740	We thank the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is to the rapporteur from the Alternative, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183751	Several rapporteurs before me have just explained what this bill is about, so I shall not go into that in depth. We stress that there is broad support from Greenland's autonomy to introduce this bill. It is a unanimous business committee in Inatsisartut, which advocates the proposal, and that is why we do not see much more debating in addition to supporting their position.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183823	We thank the rapporteur for the alternative, and then we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr SF's. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183832	After all, Denmark and Greenland are in a practical union with each other in the financial field, which is why it is good to implement the Capital Requirements Regulation, which is already in force in Denmark. There is a need for confidence and stability for the banks, which must be ensured on an equal footing with the Danishs. The Greenland financial sector must be competitive and able to finance both companies and individuals. Greenland's financial market must have conditions that make it possible to meet international requirements and conditions of competition. I mean, that's one way of doing that. the proposal is also supported by Inatsisartut, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183925	We thank the rapporteur for the SF and we go further in the rapporteur's line to the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029183940	As we also announced at the last reading before the summer recess, we are in favour of the proposal. It is of course important that some sensible capital requirements also apply in Greenland, so the same rules as apply in Denmark also apply in Greenland. So the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184005	We thank the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is IA's rapporteur, Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184016	Thanks for the bill. The proposal has been discussed in Inatsisartut, Greenland's Landsting, where a unanimous business committee has supported the bill. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for their concern. Personally, I can share the concern in general with the European Union, which has, of course, been given more and more influence on some things in Greenland that we do not always have the opportunity to influence ourselves. However, exactly in terms of ensuring stability in relation to investments in Greenland, the advantages and disadvantages have been weighed against each other, and it has been agreed that we would like to support this bill. The legislation in Greenland in the financial field is based on Danish and international regulation, not least EU rules, and a uniform regulation must ensure that the legislation in Greenland follows international standards and thus creates greater certainty as to what rules apply to investments in Greenland. It is about creating a competitive banking sector in Greenland and investment-friendly frameworks with clear agreements, as that is what benefits Greenland's society. Adopting the bill will bring Greenland's financial legislation into line with the latest international financial regulation. Inuit Ataqatigiit therefore supports the bill. I would also like, on behalf of my fellow Greenlander Aleqa Hammond from Siumut, to suspend the proposal for a second reading in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184150	There is one question, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur to stay. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184158	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, great respect for the fact that the Greenlandic Parliament has agreed to join it here; but perhaps a bit of curiosity and perhaps particularly with regard to IA, I would like to ask why one is going to give up sovereignty in this area and precisely in Greenland, which is outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184228	Thank you very much for the question. I believe that this must be seen in the context of the need to create growth in Greenland, which I have also mentioned many times here from the platform. I think it is really important that Greenland and the framework around Greenland are further developed and we move forward. We also need to talk about investments, not only in relation to the raw materials sector, but also in relation to a large number of other areas. And of course, yes, it must be done on our terms, and we are of course aware of not giving too much sovereignty to others, so we have had those considerations too. But exactly in relation to this, it is the concern to create growth in Greenland and create a stronger economy in Greenland, which is really important in relation to Greenland's future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184317	Sir. Henning Hylllested? He's gonna drop out. Then we have no more on the list and we thank the rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and then we will give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184329	Thank you. Today we are discussing L 20, draft law for Greenland on capital requirements and prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. The aim of the proposed bill is to bring into force the regulation on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms, also known as the CRR Regulation, for Greenland. This ensures that rules apply to Greenland, which adapted to Greenland's conditions, corresponds to the rules applicable in Denmark under the CRR. In the financial field, Greenland and Denmark are practically in union with each other. For the sake of financial stability and confidence in the Greenlandic banks, it is therefore important that the rules and supervision applicable to the Danish banks etc. also apply to Greenlandic banks. The CRR scheme strengthens the regulation, supervision and risk management of the Greenland banking sector to the benefit of financial stability. At the same time, it ensures increased protection of depositors and a level playing field due to uniform financial requirements for institutions. The provisions of the CRR govern inter alia: the determination of own funds, capital requirements, large exposures, liquidity, leverage and disclosure requirements. A healthy, stable and well-functioning financial sector is a prerequisite for confidence in the economy and for the sector to offer funding to businesses, households on competitive terms. A uniform regulatory and supervisory system is also important in relation to the conditions that Greenland's institutes will meet on the international financial markets in order to provide capital and liquidity. It is therefore important that the financial legislation in Greenland is updated. In this context, I would also very much like to sign for constructive cooperation with the Greenland authorities. I would also like to point out that this is, of course, a re-submission of the bill, which was not dealt with in the last session as a result of the parliamentary elections, and I am also pleased to note that the Greenlandic Landsting, Inatsisartut, on 28 May of this year, endorsed the bill. I look forward to a good committee reading and regret that I am not entirely sure that I was given the name of the Greenlandic Landsting quite correctly, but I hope that it will be possible to bear with me at this time of day.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184545	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151029184600	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 30 October 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
