ParlaMint-DK_20150326100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Martin Lidegaard): Bill no. L 178 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the External Action Service. Minister for Health and Prevention (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 179 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health and Social Security. Minister for Education (Christine Antorini): Bill No. L 180 (Proposal for a law amending the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc.) and law on post-schools and free vocational schools. Bill No. L 181 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Primary School. Jonas Dahl (SF) and Pernille Vigsø Bagge (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 105 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a statement on the budget law and sanctions against municipalities and regions). Per Clausen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 106 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on consumer information on lifetime, etc.) For electrical and electronic products) and motion for a resolution No. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on access for municipalities to solar installations). Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr (EL) and Henning Hyllested (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 107 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the transfer of civil registration from the public church to the municipalities). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cancellation of savings on state preparedness). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of chain liability). Pernille Vigsø Bagge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 111 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of valid photo identification in addition to passports and driving licences). Louise Schack Elholm (V) and Charlotte Dyremose (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 112 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a more manageable cooperative housing market). Titles on the notified cases will appear in the Parliamentingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give Parliament a written statement on the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). R 14). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on 7 April 2015. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the Council of Europe's activities and Denmark's participation in them. R 13). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will also be debated on Tuesday, 7 April 2015. The Minister for Business and Growth has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on business promotion and support 2015. R 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100332	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100416	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 34 by Jacob Lund (S), Peter Juel Jensen (V), Pia Adelsteen (DF), Liv Holm Andersen (RV) and Charlotte Dyremose (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 86 (V, S, DF, RV and KF), against 15 (SF and EL), abstentions 5 (LA). Proposal for adoption No V 34 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 33 of Özlem Sara Cekic (SF) and Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr-Bæhr (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100534	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 36 of Ole Hækkerup (S), Jep Mikkelsen (RV), Karina Lorentzen Denhardt (SF) and Per Clausen (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 55 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 47 (V, DF and KF), abstentions 5 (LA). Proposal for adoption No V-36 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 35 by Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100658	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100711	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. The vote will end. voted 93 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), against 14 (DF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100747	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100810	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister for Industry and Growth, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100823	After that, the debate is about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100829	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 94 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, KF and ALT), against 12 (EL and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100907	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100932	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-8 by the Minister for Industry and Growth, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100944	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326100950	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting in favour of 93 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, KF and ALT), against 12 (EL and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Then we try to hold our breath for a moment before we go to first readings. Well, that wasn't a call to start talking. But may we ask for the talks to be dampened or left outside so that we can continue the parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101138	The debate is open. I do not know if there is a rapporteur present from the Left; it does not seem so. Then I will see if there is a Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Ole Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101212	Thank you, sir. President. I have to say that the Socialists can of course support this government bill, which seeks to extend the period during which the salary of the ministers is reduced, and we can of course do so with reference to the remuneration commission set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101232	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101237	Thank you. I should also like to say briefly on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we support the proposal to extend the period of reduction of the basic salary to ministers for the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101250	Mrs Lone Loklinde as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101308	Of course, the Radical Left can also support the bill to continue the temporary reduction, which is, of the foundation, in view of the fact that there is a remuneration committee working. The remuneration commission, which deals with full-time politicians, must present its proposal or report here at the end of 2015 and therefore it makes good sense to await the outcome of the Commission before we can then take the necessary steps in the Folketing later in relation to changes in remuneration and the level of remuneration in the future. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101353	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Is that sir? Holger K. Nielsen, rapporteur for the SF? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101400	I just want to say that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101408	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101417	It may be, of course, because of the discomfort of having to argue in favour of a draft law which restricts the revenue of ministers briefly, that people either express themselves very briefly or just stay away. I still think it has to be said that when you look at the comments on this bill, you get a little bit sad. Because what is this bill really about? It is a question of postponing the decision on the salaries of ministers until the remuneration commission set up comes to a conclusion. It appears from the comments that there will then be a discussion of what comes from the Salaries Commission. But that's not true. It is the case that a large majority in the Folketing has decided that no matter what the remuneration commission brings, it will be adopted. It has also been made quite extraordinary with regard to this commission that we do not have the usual requirements as to what the Commission should do. When commissions are set up in this country, they are usually told two things: it must not cost anything and then it must not reduce labour supply. These two essential demands are not raised here, because there are bigger things at stake here, namely the politicians' wage ratio. In fact, I find it a little interesting that the ordinary way of dealing with politics has been put out of hand. The usual requirements, the usual methods of calculation, the usual methods of calculation are not taken into account, and it has even been allowed to say that this Commission decision will be implemented. One could raise the exciting question, why a proposal from the Left, which came in 2012, to make such a commission, which should be allowed to decide, was then a shift of responsibility and is now right, really wise and competent. For the same reason, of course, care has been taken when the remuneration commission was set up. Here only people who have a deep insight into how hard it is to sit in society's leading positions are sitting in former politicians, former ministers, current and former top officials, all of whom are starting from the fact that it is really hard and hard and hard to have responsibility, and therefore it must also be the case that you have to be able to get a good salary for it. Here the third remarkable thing is happening in this work of the Commission, because on the question of whether this is about the politicians being paid more, the President says that you cannot be sure of that, but at least you are not reducing people's wages. What if the commissions who worked on unemployment benefits, with cash benefits and other things, had said from the outset: we cannot degrade people's conditions. You didn't. On the contrary, the premise was well based on the fact that human conditions were to deteriorate. But when it comes to politicians' salaries, things are different. Basically, I think it is rather nice to try to give the impression today that a proposal is now being put forward in which, for reasons of decency and because of political decisions taken in the past, it will restrict the salary development of ministers simply to gain time after the next elections, in which the necessary improvements can then be adopted, as one sees it. I also think it is worth taking this opportunity to remind you of how tough the political struggle has taken to change the retirement age of parliamentary politicians, so that it follows the retirement age of other people. It is noteworthy, however, that we still believe that politicians in this country should retire while other people go on early retirement, although we know very well that there are very many people who do not go on early retirement, and I think we still want everyone to work until they reach 80. But there must be no doubt: on every occasion the Enhedslisten will vote for even the slightest improvement, and what the Minister for Finance brings here is an improvement. It is, as usual, when there are improvements from the Minister of Finance, small and short-term, and one can fear what comes after, but it should not prevent us from enjoying this second's joy and therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101844	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101846	Yes, that is just a comment, more than it is a question. I just want to agree with what Mr. Per Clausen says. It is a completely atypical approach on which the majority of the parties have taken part, and I think that in this way the responsibility is totally set aside rather than being openly and honestly presented and saying that we would like to see increases in remuneration. So very briefly: I fully agree with that, sir. Per Clausen told me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101914	I shall not neglect a single opportunity to declare my joy when Mr. Søren Espersen says he agrees with me. I hope that will happen again very often in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101924	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then the rapporteur of the Left has arrived, sir. Kristian Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326101937	I am delighted that the work of the Folketing is going so fast that one can be wrong about the time, and I can also understand from others who have been here all the way through that it has not so far been long rapporteur speeches, and I shall not deviate from that, but I will just allow myself to make a small comment. I am glad that the Left succeeded in persuading a majority in the Folketing to set up a remuneration committee to look at what is the right level of remuneration, not only to members of parliament and ministers, but also to mayors for that matter. I think it is a good thing that we have some externals looking at what level it should be, and I also think it is a good idea, of course, that until it is finished, the salary reduction for ministers introduced by the VK government should be maintained. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102028	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102031	I just want to ask you something. Now we have a commission that has been set up, and in this way some others have been asked to find out what they think. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur of the Left what he thinks. Mr. Kristian Jensen, that the remuneration we receive as members of parliament is insufficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102049	I think that the remuneration we receive, the cost compensation that is granted, the pension rules that we have are fair and fair, and that is a good level. I have no desire to put them up or down. I just note that as long as I have experienced the debate on the remuneration of Members of Parliament, there has always been the edge that people have been able to say: you are adopting the rules of how much you should have; you dare not let others judge whether you are getting the right thing. We dare to do that in the Left, and that is why we came up with the proposal for a remuneration commission, which is why we have also said from the outset that we are putting our own terms in the hands of that remuneration commission. We promise to support them, whether they come and say that our terms must be better or they come and say that our terms must be worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102136	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102137	But the funny thing is that all of the majority rapporteurs will say what Mr. Kristian Jensen has now said that what we have looks quite reasonable, with remuneration, with pensions and so on, a general view that this is very sensible. Why, then, should we set up a commission which should sit and find out something that is actually going quite well and where all the rapporteurs here in the Danish Parliament will say exactly what Mr. Kristian Jensen has now said?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102204	Because not everyone thinks that things are going well and that the level is the right one. We are repeatedly hearing a discussion about whether the wage level is correct in relation to liability, whether the pension rules are too favourable and whether the cost compensation should have been made in a different way. Instead of continuing to be so that it is politicians who adopt the rules on remuneration for ourselves that we take what we think is reasonable, so to speak, we think it is good that external people are now coming and looking at whether it is at the right level. That was the proposal of the Left, after some time we also got a majority in favour of it, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102239	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102251	After all, the Liberal Alliance was not included in the majority behind the Pay Commission on the simple principle that we believe that the Folketing should take responsibility for its own pay conditions. As far as I remember, seven out of eight parties also thought so a few years ago and agreed with us, but suddenly the carousel turned, and then there was a broad majority to outsource it here. And even though the Liberal Alliance likes tendering, we think this is more about relocating responsibility. It is, of course, a question of asking someone to look at the terms of pay, and then you promise to follow what they come up with. If, then, it was just a principle that could be spread out a little wider, so that on tax commissions and welfare commissions and suchlike, you would promise that you would implement what they came up with, then I think you could have a much more effective welfare society with lower taxes, more freedom and more growth. So if we could spread it out, we're kind of ready to eat it here, but until then, of course, we can't be part of it. It should not be a secret that the Liberal Alliance takes the view that, as Kristian Jensen said, we really think that the total sum spent on the remuneration of members of parliament is reasonable, but we think that post-employment and pensions are too generous and that they could be spared in order to compensate for wages. We just think that the Folketing could make an agreement on this, if that is what you want, instead of outsourcing it to a commission. At the time it was proposed to reduce the basic salary and pension etc. to ministers for a period of time, we actually voted blankly in the Liberal Alliance because we thought that the way they did it was perhaps just as smart in a hurry. We simply think that one could close down a ministry or more, and then one could both save the same in ministerial salary, but also a number of employees and thus get a total greater saving, and that would have been more effective. However, when we are asked whether we want to maintain the level of pay, we are, of course, voting to maintain the level of pay that is for ministers, because it is not immediately there that we think that more money is needed than there is today. We think it is nice, of course, that we are discussing these issues, but one might wish that it was with greater enthusiasm that we should treat the money as being spent properly when it is also about the spending of money on politicians themselves. This applies not only to salaries but also to public party subsidies, which we would like to see fully wound up, so that the parties became more dependent on their members instead of being able to spend taxpayers' money on it alone. There is always a tendency for you to decide how many of other people's money you have to pull out of their pockets for yourself. Then it usually becomes a slightly larger amount than reasonable. But if it is to be, then we are voting to maintain the lower wage, and it is not just because there are social democratic and radical ministers. After all, we hope to change the color of the ministers after the elections, and there we will have the same view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102604	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102613	The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102621	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102628	I have to see if it can be made shorter, but it may not be quite easy. I should just like to note with satisfaction that there is very broad support for this proposal and that it will continue the temporary reduction of our remuneration as Minister introduced under the VK government until the end of 2019. And, of course, in the course of the committee procedure that follows, I am fully at your disposal to elaborate on any issues which may have emerged here during our discussion and which may arise in the future. With that, I would just like to thank you for the fact that the Folketing broadly supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102706	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102730	The debate is open. Sir. Kim Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326102751	With this bill, L 164, the government wants to introduce one new procurement law in Denmark. The proposal for this new procurement law is based on the EU's extended procurement directive and the report of a fast-working government committee, the so-called Procurement Law Committee. First of all, I would like to say that there has been criticism of the consultation period, the length of the consultation period, in relation to the fact that the Procurement Law Committee has come up with their recommendations. We in the Left would like to endorse that criticism. We fully agree with the criticism of the consultation procedure, which has been brief, given that it has been going on over Christmas and New Year. We are also surprised that the so-called Procurement Law Committee has had to rush this important work. After all, it is not until April 2016 that there is a requirement for actual implementation, so there might have been time for a slightly longer preparatory work. So we agree with that criticism, but we also think that there are good tactics in the draft law which the Minister has put forward here. After all, it must ensure more effective competition in public procurement by ensuring that tenders are carried out as easily and flexibly as possible, thereby ensuring that public funds are used optimally and that the costs for both the public and the companies involved in the organisation of the supply are reduced. It is estimated that the economic savings for the public sector will be in the region of 800 million. kr. in 2018 and onwards, when the bill is phased in. However, it is expected with some uncertainty that the public sector will experience administrative savings of between 250 million. DKK 300 million kr. Annually in 2018 onwards. The total economic relief for enterprises, for business, is estimated to be around 70 million. kr. annual. These savings are secured by a number of initiatives, in which I would like to highlight innovation partnerships, better access for SMEs, including exclusive agreement and the proposed labelling scheme. Through innovation partnerships, the government will provide the contracting entity with a new and special procedure for the development and subsequent procurement of new innovative products, works and services in a single call for tenders. This makes it possible to enter into long-term partnerships. That's a good thing. For a long-term partnership, not only does society benefit by purchasing the latest and most innovative solutions for specific tasks, it also ensures that companies can plan with a long-term perspective and thus better earnings in mind. This leads to greater economic activity and higher employment. But of course it must not be the case that only the contracting entity dictates how the solution should be formulated. Indeed, real innovation does not go that way, by dictating in detail what innovation should look like, it must be up to companies, of course in cooperation with the contracting entity, to come up with the best solution. We shall seek to clarify this during the committee's deliberations. I would also like to highlight the proposal to strengthen the participation of SMEs in invitations to tender. After all, we have many small and medium-sized enterprises in this country across a broad front, professionally and professionally. There is no doubt that, both in terms of value creation and employment, there is considerable potential for SMEs that have not yet been exploited. The initiatives and intentions expressed in the legislative proposal are for us to see overall good and sensible, and of course we also welcome them. However, one may have doubts as to whether the intentions measure up to reality. We see, for example. On SKI, Statens Shopping, today, you can see that exclusive agreements are being used. One example of such an agreement concluded by the Modernisation Authority is the agreement with Atea A/S, which is a supplier to the public. Atea is a large company represented in seven Nordic and Baltic countries, employing more than 6,000 employees and listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. An agreement has been made that runs from January 2015 to 31 December 2016 and with the possibility of two extensions. It does not offer great opportunities for SMEs to interfere. There are also questions about the labelling system, which has been mentioned as problematic on the other side, and we will look at this in committee. There are matters relating to the social economy associations, and we also need to have a discussion about the limits on what is required in tenders. We will work constructively on this in committee, but overall there are certainly positive tactics in the proposal that we are signing for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326103341	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326103352	Thank you, sir. President. 300 billion. kr. in the year or about one sixth of Denmark's gross domestic product buys municipalities, regions and states for each year. Purchasing on that scale must of course be simple and clear rules, and therefore the purpose of this bill is to bring together a Danish procurement law that ensures good procurement and minimising costs, creating clear rules for tenders, and making it easier for both the public and companies to apply the rules in practice. The result of the Procurement Act will be that from 2018 onwards, the public sector will save up to 800 million. kr. For the business sector, so much trouble and difficulty will be removed that it is estimated to bring relief for approx. 70 million kr. annual for Danish companies. In June 2013, the government set up a committee to prepare a clear proposal for a Danish procurement law. The bill we are now considering is based on the work of the committee. The law has a scope in which it brings together several different sets of rules, including: The EU Procurement Directive and the rules of the Procurement Act on the purchase of goods and services. With the law, as I said, we will have a single set of rules for tendering, and I am convinced that just the fact that we are bringing the rules into a law will make it much simpler and clearer for both the public and the companies. From now on, for example, we have to do something about it. do not advertise smaller tenders, and it may also be the company that wins a tender that has to provide extensive documentation. Today it is everyone who offers to do so. There's also something about social responsibility in this bill, because with the law it's also easier to keep the tab high when it comes to exercising social responsibility when you buy. Among other things: It will be possible to require certain brands, for example. Eco-labels. And as a buyer, you will also have the opportunity to exclude candidates or tenderers for breaches of environmental, social and labour law obligations. Then that is really good news for all the small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. It is often that they have not had the opportunity to tender for large-scale procurement projects, and the law also offers measures targeted at these small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, a follow-up or explanation principle is introduced in order to divide the contracts. In this way, the public authorities will be obliged to divide contracts into lots or explain why a contract cannot be divided. Distributed contracts are better suited to the size and capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises, and in this way they will have easier access to public procurement. Barren is also reduced in relation to the size of the requirements for a company's turnover. It also opens up for small and medium-sized enterprises. I also think it is worth noting that, overall, the consultation responses are positive and support the content of the legislative proposal, among other things. because the laws will simplify the rules and increase clarity, make it easier to work with tenders, but also because the law will provide more flexibility and bring down the procurement costs. In conclusion, all in all, the law makes procurement rules simpler, clearer and more flexible. Overall, the expectation is that the law will help minimise the costs of tendering for around 800 million. kr. from 2018. That is something that can be felt in public budgets. I am quite convinced that the money saved in municipalities, regions and states could be used to strengthen the welfare of those areas where there is a need. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326103722	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326103737	We are negotiating a bill here which is about implementing the amended Procurement Directive, which must be implemented by April 2016. The aim of the proposal is to make tendering more simple and transparent. It is possible that it will be more transparent and simpler than it is today, but something might suggest that we are not quite in the finish line yet. If you look at the draft law, it is very significant that the legal notes of the proposal themselves only start on page 36. This means that we have 35 pages of legal clauses. This suggests that it is still a well-known bureaucratic. In general, it can be said that supply is basically good. It increases competition and gives you a better price. So you get more for the money. Offering can also be used to promote development by e.g. to use the purchasing power of a municipality. We have, among other things. in relation to mobile and broadband coverage. However, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the framework for making a tender is still far too narrow. Public authorities really spend a lot of money preparing tenders. The 35 pages of paragraphs at the beginning of the draft law also say something about this. You almost have to hire consultants to prepare the tenders. We read that it is approx. 98% of tenders won by national companies, indicating that there is no reason for large EU tenders. We may not be able to convince a majority in the Danish Parliament of this, but we can hope that we will help to set the limits for when something is going to be put out to tender. However, there are several positive elements in the proposal, including: that it creates greater flexibility when the public buys through tenders. This is done, among other things, by making it possible for the authorities and the market to speak together, both as part of the preparation and during the tendering process itself. More flexible forms of supply are also being opened up. There is a negotiated procedure and a competitive dialogue, and a new procurement procedure is introduced as part of the establishment of innovation partnerships, as it says. It is also good that better opportunities are given for small and medium-sized enterprises, also known as SMEs, to have better opportunities to win public tenders. However, there are also some large knots in relation to EU offerings. It is especially in building and construction tasks. Here we find that large Danish projects are being set in motion to hold hands under Danish employment for the benefit of the Danish worker and employee, but that it ends up being not the Danish worker it benefits. It is also a big minus in this draft law that the thresholds are not raised. We in the Danish People's Party are of the opinion that this should be done, and that is something we want to drill more into during the committee procedure. In conclusion, I can sum up that we think there are good things in the proposal that are moving in the right direction. However, there are also some shortcomings, such as: that we have not raised the thresholds. With that I can say that we have a number of questions which we will try to clarify in committee before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326104121	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326104124	Today we must set the framework for public procurement. And the public buys in for 300 billion. kr. a year. That is a great deal of money, and that is why it is important that it is done in a way that is both as effective as possible, as transparent and as fair as possible and in which the various tenderers are treated as just as possible. But it is also important to think about how public procurement can be used by those out there to solve more problems at once. It's like this law is supposed to cover everything from big belt bridges to diapers, but there will be a lot of big public projects where there can now be bought in in a more intelligent way. For the Radical Left, it has been important to look at how to ensure that public and private can work together before making large purchases. It is quite important that we can have a dialogue, even if there is to be fair competition, with some of those who can actually deliver. In areas where we are not already doing so, for example. If you have a solution or a finished product, it may be very good that the public can talk to private people about how to put things right. That is why we are very pleased that all this innovation partnerships has been brought in, because we actually believe that there are a number of places where development takes place precisely in the field of public and private tension and where the public as a buyer can buy in a more intelligent way. I have visited, among other things. a project in the Netherlands where they showed me how to buy a motorway. Instead of just asking who could come with the lowest price, they said: the price is like this, it is fixed; who can solve the most problems at once? Then came a project, which instead of driving this highway down through a social housing area actually used the area reserved for green area, and dragged it for use by the citizens, dug down the highway and used what was dug out for a reservoir to collect water. It may be that they were a few percent more expensive than those who just wanted to drive the motorway down through social housing, but now that you had made an intelligent way of shopping where you said: the price is this; competing on who can solve the most problems at once; it was the best that won. Sometimes the best ones are 1 or 2%. more expensive, preferably not much more, 5%. Perhaps, but in the long run they are usually much, much cheaper because you solve more problems at once. That's why we really appreciate these innovation partnerships. With the business structure that we have in Denmark, it is also very important that small and medium-sized enterprises can enter into the public procurement procedures. That is why we are very pleased that we are now being given the opportunity to divide up tenders more. We would like to encourage purchasers around the country to think a lot about how to divide up tenders so that, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur also spoke about, we can ensure that the Danish business structure can fit in precisely because we have many small and medium-sized enterprises. The third thing that has been important for Radicals is that when the buyer wants to make some quality requirements, he wants to make some demands that it should be the swan mark, that it should be the FSC mark, or that there should be some special standards, then it should be as easy as possible for the buyer to make these requirements. So we are now giving them the freedom around municipalities and states and other places where you buy, that you can as a buyer make this requirement for eco-labels. Then it is clear that there will be special situations where one has not been able to get the label as a small company, but where one should be allowed to bid anyway and be accepted. This is what the municipalities can now turn together in the way they find the right way. And we really think it is a great simplification for purchasers that they now have these opportunities to make clear demands. So all in all, we are really happy with this tender law proposal, which should save the Danes up to 800 million. kr. a year, while at the same time we can buy more intelligently, buy greener and buy much more innovatively. So the Radicals can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326104544	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. I see no rapporteur from the SF, so I give the floor to Mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326104604	Thank you. We are always flexible, also to take over SF's place if necessary. We share the view of the other rapporteurs that we have an extremely important legislative proposal here. When we look at the importance of the public sector when it comes to the procurement of services, it goes without saying that the public sector as a whole, with the huge amount of billions bought in, has a huge power to influence the development of society in the direction that we all want and at least express, namely towards more social and environmental sustainability. And there are certainly some possibilities for that in this bill. As a rule, we should not spend precious time in a rapporteur's speech complaining, but I still think there is reason to do this, and then we should call it a hernia. However, a draft law of 465 pages, consultation answers and consultation notes on 246 pages, an underlying EU directive of 486 pages, which is the facitary list, if you will say so, plus the loose, for example. The 846-page report of the tender committee is not something to talk about if you have enough time, and we ourselves have set up for this job here, but one might wonder whether one week for the rapporteurs to prepare for this bill can now also stand for a closer quality check. For my sake, no alarm, we will find a way of dealing with it politically, but a little question as to whether this haste is right now too, because it is a huge exercise to combine existing Danish law and EU law into one law. I also think that the government's response to the many consultation responses submitted is rather superficial, perhaps because it has to go so fast, which, incidentally, I do not quite understand, because the EU Procurement Directive will only have to be implemented in Danish law on 1 April 2016. So we're gonna make it, even if we needed a little more time in this phase. But where I am particularly critical, when I read the government's response to the joint consultation response, such as a large number of grassroots organisations, the FSC label, the World Forests, the Danish Conservation Association, the Interfolk Cooperative, the IBIS and others, they should all be mentioned, because it is a highly qualified consultation response that puts the finger on a very delicate point in this bill. The organisations recognise that there are some improvements in the draft law, some better opportunities for making clear demands on the procurement of goods and services to the public. However, the organisations also point out that, in a wide range of areas, the government is not taking any advantage whatsoever of the opportunities actually offered by the EU Procurement Directive for public procurement of goods and services to be used to strengthen human and labour rights, to strengthen social and environmental sustainability, to strengthen the fight against tax havens and tax evasion. Because there are more opportunities in the EU directive than this legislative proposal takes advantage of. The Minister does not devote much effort to explaining why the recommendations of the organisations will not be followed in this direction. I don't understand. Here, for once, we have some EU legislation that offers certain opportunities to counteract the ravages of market forces and undermining social cohesion and good environmental standards, and then we need to see a Danish government that does not want to make full use of these opportunities. We find this extremely embarrassing. This also says that it will be crucial for Enhedslisten's position on this bill, how the government reacts to this in the further examination of the bill and to what extent it can succeed in improving the bill on this point. Another important point, which must at least be clarified for us, is the consequences of abolishing the distinction between the so-called Annex 2 A and Annex 2 B services and the associated modification of thresholds and the announcement of tenders. Will this lead to more or less privatisation and the outsourcing of these welfare services, which are currently listed in Annex 2B, and which enjoy some protection against supply constraints? This is about social services, and the government cannot be in any doubt about the position of Enhedslisten. We do not want to offer these tasks at all, and if the bill leads to more privatisation and the outsourcing of welfare services, then we are not in it. We would also like to make a general assessment of the implications of the bill: does it as a whole lead to more privatisation and outsourcing of the public sector? Isolatedly, it may be good to limit the costs of public procurement, but if it results in increased procurement, then it has a dubious value from our point of view. The Enhedslisten believes that it is far better to remove any kind of tendering obligation and then leave it to the individual public authority to assess to what extent and how to submit tasks in procurement. It should not be forgotten that the purpose of this directive is to impose quite specific procurement rules in order to promote the spread of the rules of the internal market. So the Enhedslisten does not agree with the very purpose of the directive. This does not exclude the possibility that there may be some improvements that will enable us to vote in favour, but we need to clarify this in the further work of the committee, and then, of course, we will have to state clearly when we reach the finish line. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326105136	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326105151	It may be rare to say so, but I think I can guarantee that I am the one who has read the draft law at least thoroughly. I am going to read out a speech on behalf of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, who unfortunately cannot be present today. And it says this: this proposal will implement the new Procurement Directive. The proposal aims to improve the efficiency of public procurement processes so as to reduce the administrative burden on both public and private suppliers. The Liberal Alliance believes that it is extremely important to develop public-private cooperation in order to achieve better services and better efficiency in the public sector. That is why the Liberal Alliance sees it as an important task to make the rules on tendering procedures more flexible. The Productivity Commission points out that one of the reasons for the productivity difference between Europe and the United States is that state borders are much less barriers to goods and labour in the United States. This difference cannot be eliminated, as the United States is, of course, much more integrated. However, when this proposal standardises across countries to make it easier for European players on the Danish market and for Danish players on European markets, then you can hope for productivity gains. It is very positive that the legislative text has listened to so much of the business community as it is. In the only deviation from the draft law of the Procurement Law Committee, the relationship with brands has changed. It is LA's clear view that business should be listened to when they state that labelling schemes can be inappropriately expensive for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore necessary to be flexible in relation to whether compliance with the conditions of the marks can be demonstrated by other means. We agree with the criticism voiced by several of the consultation parties of the consultation period, which has been over Christmas and New Year. This bill is long and complex and has a significant interest in many players. If we want to make such complex decisions and qualified decisions in this House, we must give people a reasonable opportunity to respond to consultations, even if this means that the proposal must be dealt with in a later session. Overall, we are in favour of the proposal, but our rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, would like to have the opportunity to clarify some issues during committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326105419	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326105425	After all, this is a Salomon compromise that we have to deal with today. A committee has sat and worked and punked with the matter here and has had to file a little and plan a little here and here, and then we are presented with • with one exception • the committee's proposal, which we shall then discuss in the Danish Parliament. I can say from the outset that we are positive about the proposal because it is moving in the right direction. There will be better procurement processes, it will be more simplified and it will be more transparent. But we have far greater ambitions. The point is that the whole market here, which is going to be set at 300 billion. kr., is subjected to a completely different kind of political pressure, a completely different kind of transparency and a whole different possibility for several companies, a whole palette of companies to participate in the tenders. With less strict rules than what has been proposed here, one will make a completely different kind of social gain out of it. After all, we believe that we must demand that there should be a certain percentage of supply in all parts of the public administration, both in the state, the regions and the municipalities. When we were in the VK administration, we were very successful. It put pressure on the tenders and saved the citizens a lot of money, while at the same time creating a lot of innovation and new ways of thinking. So we need to make sure that we get the tenders going and that we get the tendering rates up, so to speak. When we talk about the framework here it is after all the law for the procurements that are then still missing, I think to be looked at how it will be more possible for more companies to participate in the tenders on a qualified basis. The concrete proposal here will lead to a better procurement process. Firstly, it will be possible to have a better dialogue between purchasers and suppliers; secondly, there will be greater flexibility in the form of greater access to flexible forms of supply, and this will create more innovation. In other words, what is also needed in the interaction between private and public is that you can have a dialogue on how to develop things, and that will be possible with the proposal. I would like to congratulate you on that. Then there is the whole discussion about costs. There are slightly different reports as to whether it will be cheaper or not. I choose to listen to the committee that has been sitting and looking at it, and the committee agrees that it is the right way and that it will cost less. We shall have to see that, and it will have to come to a test, because it is certainly not completely debureaucratic in terms of how it can be done. There is also the question of minimum deadlines, which, with the implementation of the proposal, will be shorter than today. Everything else is going to mean a slightly smaller form of competition. It is so difficult to measure, but it is clear that when the deadline gets shorter, we may run the risk of a little less competition. But all in all, with the headlines in the proposal and the opportunities for implementing a more transparent form of competition and a more dialogue-driven form of procurement, it will move in the right direction. So the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326105735	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326105748	I should like to thank you for the generally positive reception of the proposal. And I must honestly acknowledge that it is a long time to read it to the bottom, and I regret that some people have had to spend their Christmas and New Year holidays on it. However, it has been an important proposal to read out, because it is important for Denmark, it is important for the public sector, and it is important for the private sector that we get a new procurement law. I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge that the committee that the government set up a wide-ranging committee with all those involved in the procurement process has done a thorough job and submitted a report, and also a thorough one, to the government. And we have largely followed it to the letter. I think that is an exemplary and fine work of committee which I would very much like to sign for the fact that we have entered and entered here. Let me briefly turn to some of the points that I would like to highlight as being particularly positive in relation to this law. I do not know how many times I have been out locally and talked to business associations and others where they have complained about why they cannot be allowed to bid in relation to the tasks that the public sector is offering. For the public sector, it has often been the case that the whole thing has been lumped together in a larger contract, and they have been too small for that, and therefore they have not been able to be taken into account. That is what we are now seeing to happen in the future. It's good for the competition, and it's good for the little self-employed out there. So I really think this is a really, really positive step. The next thing we have done is also for the sake of the very same companies. It has been the case that if you had to submit an offer for a specific task, you would have to specify it in all possible details, and then you could have spent many wonderfully wasted efforts on tasks that actually never happened. Now you can submit your offer in general terms, and it is only when you have received the final approval that you have to execute the offer that you will then have to spend a lot of working hours to actually design it. I think that is very welcome. Then I think it is really gratifying that you can act according to political temperament and where you come from when you have to buy in the public sector. If you are one of those who think that small children should not run around in coffee plantations and pick coffee beans, but think that they should go to school instead, then there are among other things. This fair trade mark and other things where we can ensure that there are proper working conditions and that you do not use child labour or anything else. There are some of us who think it is a really good idea, and anyone will drink our coffee brewed on coffee beans from that very background. And there you have the opportunity now to make that kind of demands when shopping. And if you're a different story and think it's great that people run around in coffee plantations without proper conditions, or don't care about it and just think it should be cheapest possible, yes, then you can do it after political quiet. You have to fight about that out there. But there are good powers that can decide that. So I think it is a law that allows us to act politically as well, and that is very good. Then there have quite understandably been a number of technical issues, assessments and other issues relating to the legislation here, which I fully agree with. And I think the right thing would be for me to offer to invite a trip over to the Ministry for a rather thorough review of the whole law here, so that we can reverse all the details you might want, just as you should of course just ask questions about it. I recognise that it is comprehensive and complicated, but I think we are very well on our way as soon as we get this legislation implemented. So I'd like to thank you for your support, so dad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110200	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110205	Thank you, thank you to the Minister for the presentation, and also thank you for the commitment to invite us to a meeting where we can thoroughly review it. I think that's very much needed with this bill. I have a lot of questions, but I think most of them are suitable for written answers. There is, however, one that I would like the Minister's answer to here and now, if possible. As part of this preparatory work, has an assessment been made of the impact of the bill on Denmark's ability to live up to the international conventions and agreements that we are party to or have ratified on work and human rights and environmental sustainability? Has such an assessment been carried out? I haven't been able to find it like that. I may have missed something, but I'd like to know if there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110259	I will be answerable as to whether such a specific assessment has been made. Generally speaking, we try to observe all the laws and conventions that we have signed up to. However, I am not aware of whether a general screening of the whole proposal has been carried out here. The questioner is concerned about tax matters, and as regards the possibility of requiring, for example, tax payments through tendering, I can tell you that we cannot do so in general, because that goes on to specific tasks. We have indicated that, in the second context of the European Union, we will be working to ensure that we can have that rule introduced, just as we have allowed the creation of a so-called fair tax label. So that is the way we try to tackle it, but with this law and the way the EU's procurement circular has been adopted, we cannot shape it as specifically as we would like in the whole area of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110358	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110402	Thank you. I think that Enhedslisten has an idea that there may be some options in this respect, in other words, in relation to the SKAT which has not been used. Even if the heavy yoke should be carried around, that EU law should be respected, we think that, in fact, in relation to the Procurement Directive, there should be some options that have not been exploited. We can come back to that. It is fair enough if the Minister does not just have an overview of whether such an assessment has been made. I think it is quite important that it is done because it is technically complicated. It is also in line with the Minister's remark that there is room for political space in the municipalities. Yes, that is very good, but it is probably not good if there is room to make political decisions in the municipalities, which work against or conflict with the international conventions ratified by Denmark, about work and human rights and the agreements we may have reached on environmental sustainability. That is where we are responsible for making legislation here in the Danish Parliament to ensure that the commitments we have entered into internationally cannot, if we may say so, be undermined/satisfied in the local work. That is why I think it is important to have a study of this kind. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will be prepared to give us such an assessment if, in search of the many sides, it proves that it does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110529	I see nothing more than that if the questioner asks for it, of course we are doing that work. We are also interested in clarifying what it looks like. If I may put it that way, it is not the case that, through a procurement law, we give indirect powers to commit unlawful acts. That's not the point. Then there may be some places where we can wish for sustainability, for example, but it is not illegal to be unsustainable in our purchases, even as an ordinary Dane. It will then be a question of attitudes about what you think is fair around here. But that's what you get to decide here. I certainly think it is worth emphasising. It is a balance, and it is also where the water sometimes separates out there. I also think it is a good thing that we can put it up to a good local political dispute about what we really want to promote in this world, so that it is not the case that we adopt it all in advance for all of them in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110623	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak on this matter. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110709	The debate is open, please go to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326110713	Thank you for the floor. The Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party have tabled motions for resolutions on improving the indoor climate in schools. I would like to say straight away that we in the government think it is important that there is a focus on a good indoor climate in schools. This is something that we are following closely, and there are also a number of initiatives that help to ensure a good indoor climate, and if someone does not, you can keep up with it so that you can intervene and do something about it. As Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti point out, it is indeed the case that the rules are already there and that it is the municipalities' responsibility that they be respected. That is why the government cannot support the two motions for resolutions, but I would like to emphasise that we fully share the attention that must be paid to a good educational environment for pupils at school. I would like to refer to the elements that are already in place in order to ensure a good educational environment. It is the case that the Education Environment Act lays down, and it is the case that the head of the school must ensure that a written environmental assessment is prepared at least every three years, such as: maps the physical, psychological and aesthetic educational environment of the educational establishment. It should also be borne in mind that, in addition to the Education Environment Act, students also enjoy the Work Environment Act, which applies to teachers, because they are in the same premises. The Working Environment Act states that a working room must have sufficient fresh air supply without any disturbing features. If this cannot be achieved through windows, doors, etc., mechanical ventilation shall be provided. The Labour Inspectorate may, on a case-by-case basis, require improvements in air quality and ventilation. In addition, municipalities must comply with the rules of the building regulations when building new schools and renovating existing ones. Among other things, it must be ensured that the CO2 content does not exceed 1000 ppm for longer periods, which is the unit of measurement in which it is calculated. This means that the Danish rules and recommendations in this area follow the Norwegian and Swedish recommendations for the CO2 content of air, which are otherwise referred to in both resolutions. So it is the same thing that the Danish rules must live up to. The result from DTU's 2014 mass experiment also shows that a lot can be achieved by building up healthy habits in schools with a fairly simple grip on ventilation. That is, for example, the case. to get out of the classrooms and expand the learning room, but first of all that you systematically air out. It may be said that this sounds banal, but it actually makes a huge difference in terms of ensuring that CO2 In addition, however, I would also like to highlight one thing that we in the public school circle have jointly introduced, namely a national objective in the reform that pupils' well-being should be increased and that something new is being well-being and educational environment year by year followed through mandatory well-being measurements. And it is included among other things. in the well-being measurements, that questions about the physical learning environment are something the students must relate to. From August this year, well-being measurements will also be supplemented by a voluntary module which will focus particularly on the learning environment. In this way, both the well-being measurement and the education environmental assessment can be seen in a context of the new well-being objective, which is part of the primary school reform. This also means that the municipalities and schools will have systematic knowledge of what is actually happening with the educational environment. There is also a regulatory framework that clearly says how to live up to the CO2 content framework that corresponds to the Norwegian and Swedish rules, and that it is therefore essentially a matter of continuing attention to the fact that there must of course also be a good educational environment in relation to air ventilation. If the level of a school is not satisfactory in relation to e.g. The municipal council must draw up an action plan with follow-up initiatives to improve the level of the school. So both the fact that teachers are covered by the Working Environment Act and the pupils are covered by the Education Environment Act means that the intention of the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution already exists, and that is why the government rejects the resolution, but not the intention that we think is quite right, namely that there should of course be a good educational environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111209	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111214	After all, the minister has been the architect of a reform of primary schools, which has the fundamental aim that pupils should learn as much as they can. Now we have been documented on a scientific basis as well, what I do not think the Minister will challenge the fact that under the conditions that are in school today, the pupils do not learn as much as they can, because the indoor climate is not in order at half the schools. How can the Minister consider that the purpose of the reform of primary schools is thereby undermined by the fact that the municipalities do not comply with the rules in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111301	It is always unacceptable if a municipality does not comply with the rules. That is why I did a little bit of telling you what a set of rules there is. It is indeed the case that the Factory Inspectorate can, on the basis of a concrete assessment, impose an obligation to improve air quality and ventilation. It is also quite clear in the building regulations how high the content of CO2 so, of course, action must be taken if you do not comply with the rules, and those tools are already there today. That does not change the fact that it is good that there is constant attention. Because it is true that some studies show that CO2 This affects learners' learning and well-being, and that is why it is important and good that we have a set of rules so that action can be taken if we do not comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111344	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111348	But since the rules don't work, what then? At one point, the Municipality of Silkeborg was allowed to make a mega class with 35 students, and they got to come in here to ask to continue having 35 students in the classes. When I asked to check whether they were even complying with current rules on 28 in classes over there, it turned out that 82 million were missing. kr. to be legal. So that means that even where the ministry is concerned, permissions are granted for something that is absolutely not in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111429	Now I find it difficult to see what the example from Silkeborg has to do with the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on better air ventilation in the premises, so allow me to deal with what is the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten and from the Danish People's Party, namely that there is a clear set of rules, that the maximum content of CO2 may, unfortunately, we see that in many areas, be some that bend rules. It's never okay. Therefore, it is important that there is a set of rules, that you follow it closely and that there is the debate in relation to air ventilation, because it makes a difference in relation to children's learning.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111512	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111521	Yes, I do not quite understand why the government is not voting for this excellent proposal... either the Danish People's Party or the Enhedslistens. Let me tell you a little bit about our own proposal, where we call on the government to draw up an indoor climate plan with the National Association of Municipalities. And why is that? Well, because the municipalities are constantly renovating the schools they do all the time. All we then call for is for consideration to be given to the indoor climate when schools are renovated. And that's the kind of thing the government can do quickly. It doesn't cost anything extra; it's just that you think a little bit about it. The second is to examine whether what they are doing in Sweden and Norway is also something for us. I find it very difficult to see why the government, however, will not be involved in anything as soft and round and encouraging as this proposal. I find that hard to understand. It is, of course, the proposal of the Danish People's Party that I am asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111618	As I also hope I was able to express myself, and otherwise I would like to do so again... we have real sympathy for the intention both in the Danish People's Party's and Enhedslisten's proposals. If we cannot support it anyway, it is because we think an open door is being kicked in. The municipalities have It doesn't make it any different that the state should sit down with the municipalities for the municipalities have In fact it is also the case that what is stated in the Dansk Folkeparti's proposal and with reference to what you do in Norway and Sweden where you have a maximum limit for CO2 is why we reject it. It is then, of course, you have to do everything possible to ensure that it is complied with, because it makes a difference to children's learning, unfortunately if CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111706	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111709	It is true that the municipalities are responsible for the schools, but the Minister is also responsible for the schools widely, and therefore it would be wise if the government and KL, who are responsible for the schools, were to come together to draw up such an indoor climate plan. The second is that the resolution is to examine how automatic and mechanical ventilation works in Norway and Sweden, to see whether it could work in Denmark or whether it is unnecessary. Well, it can't be any softer. I simply do not understand why the Minister cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111744	It is certainly not an unwillingness, but it is because the rules are such today, and so I would just like to say that the Working Environment Act says, among other things, that working rooms must have sufficient fresh air supply without disturbing features. If this cannot be achieved through windows and doors, etc., mechanical ventilation shall be provided. So it is simply because today there is what the Danish People's Party is asking for in the Danish rules, i.e. as in Norway and Sweden. If there are some things, I think they should be taken into account in the committee debate. Let's see what the difference is. Are there any things we can be inspired by? Because if there is something we can be inspired by, we must look at it, but if the concrete in it is part of the existing Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111828	Thank you to the Minister for Education. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326111836	Thank you. I need to get this down a little bit. Then I think I can make it. A good indoor climate is important at any workplace. It's hard to concentrate if you sweat or freeze, if it's trapped or smells bad, or if only the air is bad. Good work requires oxygen for the brain. That's true, no matter what age you are. Unfortunately, the indoor climate is not always so good at our children's workplace, at school. A great many school buildings are from a time when there were other standards of ventilation and indoor climate. Nor has it always been clear what materials were used to build schools and what consequences it had. This means that there are many classrooms where the indoor climate is not very good. A good indoor climate is important for learning ability. If the air is heavy, it exhausts the students and makes them tired. Everyone can imagine how much more receptive one is to learning if it takes place in an environment where the air is fresh. It has also been scientifically proven in several reports that improvements in indoor climate lead to better performance on the part of students. This is a clear sign that this is an important issue. Therefore, it is also important that we do something about the matter, so that students have the optimal conditions to learn. In the Left, we are immediately in favour of the intention of both motions for resolutions. Like the proposers, we would like to have a primary school in which children thrive and where they are able to learn and concentrate. That is why it is important that the framework is in order. Let me start by looking at B 34, which is put forward by Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten suggests that it should be possible for the municipality to carry out a plan of action in order to put the climate conditions in order by the end of 2015 if the requirements of the law are not complied with. Of course, the Left also believes that the law in this area must be observed, but it still seems an almost impossible task to ensure that it all gets right by the end of the year. Although we would like to have a good indoor climate, we must also set realistic targets that can actually be met. In addition, Enhedslisten's proposal lacks proper answers to how the proposal is to be financed. There is no doubt that it will be a very expensive round if the proposal is to be implemented. The comments mention that the improvements can be made for less than DKK 2. per student per year; day. This is not a particularly concrete figure, but in 2013 there were 558,581 pupils in the primary school, which means that it will cost with easy arithmetic 1.117,162 DKK. a day, and in 1 year it will amount to approximately 408 million. kr. It is quite a lot of money that is not specified funding for by Enhedslisten. So, despite the good intentions, the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal. With regard to B 40, which has been put forward by the Danish People's Party, we think that the ideas seem better to be possible. Both an indoor climate plan and a study of legislation in Denmark versus Norway and Sweden are good ideas that we in the Left can immediately support. The proposal does not require funding in the first place, but it is clear that we will have to re-examine the discussion on this subject once the indoor climate plan and the proposed study have been carried out. We must, of course, have everything in place, what improvements in the indoor climate will cost and how we will find the money. So our concern is what the economy will be in this proposal in the long term. It is also important for us to continue to point out that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that there is a good indoor climate in schools. It must continue to be. But let me sum up: the Left wants a good indoor climate in primary school. Against this background, we are positive about the intentions of the proposals, but we consider B-34 unrealistic in terms of objectives and economics. B 40 seems more realistic, but it is clear that the elements must be financed. Finally, since the rapporteur of the Conservatives could not be here, I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that the Conservatives do not support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112247	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Annette Lind as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112257	Good schooling is both about good education, but it is also about a good framework for teaching. That is why the educational environment in our schools is also important, and that is something that we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned with. We therefore fully agree with the proposers of both parties in their desire to ensure a good everyday life for the children and young people in the country around the folk schools. On the other hand, we do not agree with the proposers that we do not already have a clear framework for this, as it is today. For students already have the right to a good educational environment where they can learn in a safe and health-friendly way. It is part of the principal's task to ensure a written educational environmental assessment covering both the physical, the mental and the aesthetic learning environment. For teachers, therefore, we have strict requirements in the Education Environment Act, which also benefits students. In addition, of course, it is also about common sense and good habits in relation to the indoor climate, for example. on ventilation, rather than making more bureaucracy. I understand that there are schools that can do better than today, but it is up to the municipalities to ensure that they meet their responsibilities for a better indoor climate, both when building new schools and when renovating them. With the new framework for primary school, we have set aside 4.5 billion. kr. extra, like among other things. can be used for local decor, just as it has now become a focus area in the well-being measurements, where we get a concrete measure of how the students experience the physical learning environment. This will, of course, be a starting point for follow-up in schools and out in the municipalities and for us to be able to follow developments. Then it is not quite unimportant to say that in 2013 we have actually added 2 billion. kr. from quality funds to a better indoor climate in schools. The Socialists cannot therefore support the two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112451	There are two brief comments, first from Mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112458	The rapporteur says that pupils are entitled to a good indoor climate, and that is also what the Education Environment Act says. But one thing is to be right, another thing is to be right, because the studies of which there is a great deal show precisely that the students are not being right. Is it the Social Democrats' ambition that half of the schools should meet the indoor climate requirements and thus the pupils will not be able to learn as much as they could?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112537	Just as I said in my rapporteur's speech, all children are also entitled to a good working environment. Of course, what this is all about is that we also have to act on the basis of common sense, and I really think common sense is a good thing to use here. It is acting, for example. I myself have helped to get into the common goals. It's also about airing out. It is about many things that can be done using common sense, and sometimes I also think that making more bureaucracy is the reverse world. Of course, this is about the children having a good working environment, and they also have a lot of places. Of course, where you do not have it, you have to commit to doing better.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112617	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112619	After all, the Working Conditions Act requires that where there are technical possibilities, they should be used, and we have just heard the Minister say that a window can be opened. Now I know that the rapporteur is the rapporteur for another area, but is social democratic health and safety policy not pointing out the technical possibilities that exist? I am sure that the rapporteur, as a former head of school, also knows that when you get such a command to open the window, you do so for the first 14 days, then you forget it, and that is why we are in the morass that half of the country's children are in bad air and learn too little.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112706	In fact, I think this is a joint responsibility, and you have that responsibility as head of school, and you certainly have it as a teacher, but you also have it as a student. This is about us creating a new framework for primary school. We're gonna do these well-being measurements, so the students are actually being asked. At the same time, with the new framework for primary school, we have also said that they must use the surrounding society. In fact, you don't have to sit on your chair as much as you have had to do before, and you also have to move 45 minutes. So with the new framework for primary school, I think that in the long run we will have to think a little more about how we do our teaching, and it may not be just in the classroom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112742	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112746	I simply cannot understand why the rapporteur is not in favour of this proposal. The rapporteur refers to the fact that there is legislation, and the Minister has done so. But how can it be that the indoor climate is so bad in 56 percent? of all classes in Denmark? A CO2 concentration above that allowed has been measured. If we have everything we need, why is the indoor climate so bad out there? Doesn't that require a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112818	Well, as the Minister also pointed out before, we have quite clear rules on these things, and they must, of course, be observed. Of course, where they are not respected, you need to know that. You can get a command, and then, of course, when you get a command, you have to keep these things. There's this thing about whether we have a bad indoor climate. I can see in the summary here from Enhedslisten's proposal that it says exactly that in 2014 it is slightly worse than in 2009. Well, of course, this is about having a good indoor climate, and it's about doing things. I do not think that we should do more bureaucracy on this. I think we should act.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112852	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112855	Well, we don't want any more bureaucracy either. There are some rules, but they are not being enforced. Would it not be a good idea, as in the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, that the government, together with KL, should make this plan and follow up on the fact that the rules will be part of the municipalities' renovation of schools so that the indoor climate will improve?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112919	As the Minister also pointed out, there is a clear set of rules, and we must, of course, follow this closely. I do not know whether it makes any difference to create a new regulatory framework. I think it would be better to act in schools and do something about it. I believe that we can get more attention to this. In our common goal, for example, we can. write this in with the fact that we need better hand hygiene. We know this is one of the things that promotes thriving, because fewer people get sick. If you are told as headteacher that your school is not actually doing so well, then I actually believe that you are very responsible and take things into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326112957	Mrs Merete Riisager for a brief comment. No, I didn't mean to. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113010	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten and to Dansk Folkeparti for raising a very relevant discussion about indoor climate. I'm sure we've all been trying to doze up in a room because there was bad air. It is not just something we sense; it is also something that we have hard facts on the table. We know that poor indoor climate negatively affects students' ability to solve concentration-intensive tasks by up to 15%. That's actually a lot. Therefore, I also agree with Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti in the goal. But we also know that simple things can do a lot. Much can be achieved by building healthy habits in schools with quite simple grip like opening windows and letting students out of classrooms, cleaning up, etc. I also think we should think twice about whether we need to make more rules on the part of Christiansborg, because the schools are owned and run by the municipalities. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to prioritise a good indoor climate when building new schools and renovating existing schools. It is already the case today that CO2 It should then instead of making new resolutions and new rules I would rather use the platform here to send a very clear signal to the municipalities that they have to comply with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113158	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113203	It is almost an attempt at a correction, for the Minister, like the radical rapporteur, said that there is a limit called 0.1 per cent. It's there if it's a newly renovated school room. The limit for action by the Factory Inspectorate is 0.2 per cent. It's been found in bunkers. At Sundskolen in Faaborg it was five times as high and the students were intended to learn 18 per cent. less than they could. The 0.1%. is where we want to go. That's where the Norwegians and the Swedes are. But we're really at the 0.2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113300	I fully share Enhedslisten's concern about the measurements we can see where the level is much higher. But I also think that we have this tool in Denmark, and we have the very clear signal to the municipalities that they have to solve this task. That is why I really hope that instead of creating new rules, we could use this debate to jointly find out whether we could find new ways of getting things done to the municipalities, that they should live up to what is already in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113335	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113337	Well, Enhedslisten's proposal doesn't imply any new rules. This means that the government makes the municipalities ensure that the current rules are complied with, and if they do not, a plan of action must be drawn up and conditions legalised. So there is no more bureaucracy in the Enhedslisten proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113400	But the point on my part is that it is precisely the responsibility of the municipalities to comply with the rules. That's why I really don't want us to take it out and think that from here we're gonna have to make a plan. I would much rather discuss with you what it is like, by the way, to impose the rules on the municipalities if we discover that they do not live up to them. So, should you consider sending a shepherd's letter or taking it up in an economic agreement or doing other things? I think it is a more viable path than thinking that now we are going to come up with everything in here because the municipalities have not solved the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113435	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113445	First of all, I would like to thank both Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party for having this important debate. I could also say a little cheerful: Lovely that you have now entered the SF's line. This is exactly what we wanted: to focus on a good working environment also for the children and young people who attend schools. So far, at least, I am very pleased today that there is so much support to look at the environment that children are for many hours a day. The working environment for both children and adolescents and adults is very central to the SF. We have ensured through legislation that teachers are protected when they go to work, and it is therefore natural that we should also ensure that children are protected and have a proper environment to move in. Poor indoor climate is a major problem in many primary schools. We know that, as do the studies, and all the rapporteurs here have confirmed it. It has been for many years. This is due to a number of things, among others. that many schools are old; they are not maintained; the construction does not meet the modern standards that we know; there may be too many pupils in the classes; there is a lack of routines in ventilation, etc. etc. Several studies have pointed out that poor indoor climate has a very negative effect on learners' learning, and we must of course do something about that. SF has also highlighted the problem several times, and fresh air is a must to be able to think and perform, and with the longer day of school it has become even more important that we ensure proper conditions for our children. We got well-being goals in the primary school reform. I am glad of this because it highlights precisely that, of course, it is important that all children become as skilled as possible. But it is also important that they thrive as well as possible, and just as well-being goals are one of the places where we can focus on whether the working environment for children is good enough. So, on the basis of the SF, we are in favour of the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten, but I think it is actually unambitious. For as the rules are today, as the legislation is today, as the declarations of intent are today, so it is up to what Enhedslisten is asking for. What Enhedslisten's proposal does not do is to take the step fully, namely to demand that the working environment, that is, the working environment we know for teachers at school, should also concern pupils. I do not see that from the proposal here, nor do I see that Enhedslisten has an overview, an overview or an overview of the economic aspects of the first part of this proposal, which is why we cannot support it. I agree with the Minister that initiatives and actions have been taken. Apparently it's not enough. We have to look at this, but we would like to see us take the step fully and have a health and safety law which dealt with the children and young people who are in schools. With regard to motion for a resolution B 40, the second part of the proposal, namely that the government should consider how the demand for CO2 is to be considered, but I must say in addition that I hope we will have the discussion in committee. We would like to propose from the SF that the collaboration with KL, which is being set up to create a national strategy, should become more concrete. For it is in the interests of the whole country that all children and young people should thrive; that they should become as good as they can and thrive as possible. And what we see today is that all too often it is the individual school in each municipality that has this problem that you have to choose from, whether it should be new windows, a renovation due to mold or other. That is why we need to have a common strategy, a national strategy based on what I hope will be possible at some point, namely that we will have a definite strategy for the working environment, including for children. So we support the intentions, but we do not support the Enhedslisten's proposal we had hoped it would be more ambitious. But we support B 40.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113917	There are two brief points, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113920	It has to be very short. I am grateful for the SF's support for the proposal, and it is nice that it also lies in continuing traces of the SF's policy. And then I look forward to the committee reading if there is a majority in this Chamber. Then it is very positive that we are looking at a national strategy, of course, it is also in the indoor climate action plan with KL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113945	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113947	Well, then, sir. Lars Dohn (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326113950	Thank you for your comment on the Enhedslisten proposal. I am a little sad about that if you do not think it is ambitious to correct the situation, that half of the country's premises do not meet proper standards and that we are the worst in the Nordic countries in this area. But if it were to be about, for example... to make a joint proposal that students and students should be covered by the Working Conditions Act, I would also like to join with the SF in bringing it forward in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114031	I look forward very much to working with Enhedslisten to create a good working environment which also covers the children and young people who attend our schools. It is not a proper interpretation that I do not care about the situation in which many schools find themselves today, but I must stick to what the Minister says: we have rules, we have laws in this area. They have yet to be followed, and that is why I actually welcome it. I also hope that the rapporteur of the Radicals will deepen and persevere when we get a committee reading of this, that we want to send a shepherd's letter and also possibly get a follow-up from the municipalities. Because they have a responsibility and they have to live up to it. If we had a health and safety law for children and young people, we would be very strong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114111	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114115	Yes, for precisely the possibility of getting the Radicals into such an idea that students and students should be included in the Law on Working Conditions should be a relatively easy thing, for former Minister of Education Margrethe Vestager has proposed that pupils be included in the Law on Working Conditions. So it will be a little exciting to see how the Radicals will act in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114140	We cannot know that; the Radicals themselves can answer for that. But I look forward to the committee reading. At any rate, I can clearly see that this is something that all parties are very concerned about. And then perhaps we should abandon the usual party politics: if one side proposes something, the other side says no. We could, for example. bring together all parties to look at what is for the good of children and young people, and that is to have proper health and safety legislation that covers them and gives them legal requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114204	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Merete Riisager as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114219	I am sincerely pleased that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten have raised the discussion about the indoor climate in the primary school, and in particular I am pleased with the Danish People's Party's approach, as I think it is immediately the most constructive and least bureaucratic of the two. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very concerned that we are basing legislation on knowledge and evidence. It is generally a major problem when we look at initiatives from the Ministry of Education that they are not based on knowledge and research, and that is very strange. But it is certainly something that I have had to see, having been sitting in here on Things for well over three years. First of all, the great animal in the revelation with which we have worked is the reform of the primary school. There was a study of the first framework attempt on full-day schools prepared by Rambøll, which showed that a number of the 12 schools that had started up had stopped because there had simply been too few parents who had wanted to have their children in those schools. As a whole, it was found that the professional benefit had not increased by this form of teaching. Nevertheless, we then had a reform of primary school based on exactly the pedagogical model for all schools in Denmark. At the same time, we have major international studies from TIMSS & PIRLS, which clearly show that it is not only possible to increase professionalism by extending the school day. And the government's own investigations have shown that there is no direct correlation between movement and improved cognition. So all in all, it has to be said that the greatest reform of this government has not been supported by research. Then there are smaller things, such as... the age-integrated education in which a framework attempt is made. We have asked the Minister from the Liberal Alliance whether, before setting up such a framework attempt, we are just examining what is of research in this field, at least in Scandinavia. And there the Minister has answered quite clearly that the research has not been studied in the Ministry of Education. And I just have to say that if it were a job at the university, it would have failed. But now we are talking about real children, so it is very unfortunate that one obviously has the practice in the Ministry that one does not base legislation, experiments and instructions on research and knowledge. At the moment we are debating high schools, and there we have proposed from the Liberal Alliance that it be possible to examine how professionalism has developed over time. It would be very good to be able to base a reform on a study of how things stand in this way, at least where I come from. In the private sector, you look into things before you do anything new. We'll see if we get through that. I fear that such a study will only be carried out after a reform, and then we will be on the same page. So the Ministry of Education should be a stronghold of knowledge. It needs to be changed. If we have a bourgeois government after the next elections, that must be one of the things we really want to do. Counselling, trials and legislation must be based on what we know. But when it comes to air in the room for children, we actually know that there is a direct connection between the opportunity to learn something and a good indoor climate, that the air is in order. In other words, what is the problem? Perhaps it's that you in the municipalities maybe, now I'm a little bit more excited to buy iPads or introduce new pedagogical concepts. And you can see that here at Christiansborg is one of the things that interest you, whereas this thing about buying a filter and putting it in may not be quite as interesting. It's $75 million. kr. Just evaluating the reform of primary school. You have to say, I guess it's paid as well. If you are going to look at how best to use resources, it might be that there was something to be done in relation to the resolution that is on the table today, because the reform actually means that children have to sit longer in school and there are also quite a lot of pupils in the classes in many schools. However, the questions to the motion for a resolution still weigh up a great deal. What is the situation with regard to funding? How do these proposals relate to the private schools, which are sometimes in premises that have not been intended for a school? And how bureaucratic will what is on the table when it is drawn up for real legislation? So in the Liberal Alliance, we are generally opposed to central governance and we are concerned about freedom for citizens, but freedom for citizens is also in this case that the individual child can sit in a room where there is proper air. So we are positive about the objective, but concerned about the content, and we will let our final position depend on the committee procedure and the answers we will get there to the questions that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114735	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Dohn, as rapporteur for the authors of the proposals from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326114752	We need fresh air in the classrooms. This is what this proposal is all about, and I am so lucky or burdened with having worked a lot on this particular issue as a health and safety officer in the Danish Teachers' Association. I became aware of the question a few years ago when the parents of the pupils at a school in Herning asked that the pupils could be allowed to be only 23 in each class instead of the 28. When I knew that school had some very, very small classrooms and literally not very high to the ceiling it was built in 1956 and had rooms of only 46 m2 I thought it was interesting to find out how many students were actually allowed to be in such a classroom. And it turned out that when you were counting on 12 m3 of air for the teacher we didn't have so many of these days and gave 6 m3 of air to each student, 9 m3 if there is no mechanical ventilation, then there had to be 16 students in the class. Just a moment: can we calm down in the gallery? Thank you). I had a talk with the school manager about it, and he said, of course, a little cheerful: you'll be a hunted man if you're right. The case ended up looking happy for students, parents and teachers when the Labour Inspectorate instructed Herning Municipality to put things right. It cost 40 million. kr., but I'm sure the 40 million. kr. It's all worth it. For now the students are learning much more what they need to do. I have already mentioned from my seat the example of Silkeborg, which had been allowed to have megaclasses. It turned out that the Municipality of Silkeborg wanted to continue to have an exemption to have 35 pupils in the classes, and then I asked to know how many of the classes were actually legal according to the current maximum of 28 pupils. And it turned out that the municipality of Silkeborg had to crawl to the cross and say: Yes, if we spend 82 million. kr., it's gonna be legal. So one thing is that there's a legal requirement in the law that's passed in here. Something else is that you can be completely different out there. I see the clock is reset. There is certainly still time to speak). That's good. Thank you. I think we should be ambitious in this area and learn from our neighbouring countries. The Committee on Children's and Education was on a very exciting trip to Stockholm to look at privatised schools and day care institutions, and it was of course not very encouraging to see schools that could go bankrupt and where you could invest the profits on Cayman Islands. But what was encouraging up there was to experience that there was mechanical extraction in all rooms and that the students had a hot meal. If we just got these two things through in Denmark, they can come with all their PISA surveys, as Anders Bondo said at a teacher's association congress, and then we have to overtake the whole gang. So if you want to create a school where you can learn, you have to create a contemporary framework. After all, our proposal is not about creating new costs. It is about making the law apply all over Denmark and not just making it as legal as possible. I also think that in this context we should think about whether the construction with the Danish Centre for the Education Environment is enough to ensure that these things are respected. I think you can find out quite quickly that it isn't. This was the case when Margrethe Vestager was Minister of Education in the 1990s that she proposed that pupils and students should be covered by the Working Environment Act. But one finance minister Lykketoft said: Margrethe does not think so. And then it held there. I think it is worth thinking, as several of the rapporteurs have said today: let us try to throw it back into the air and see if students and students do not deserve better and can just come under rules where there are also sanctions for breaking them. The Danish Centre for the Education Environment has no sanction options, and I think it is to put it mildly that things have become so. I think I can see that with the comments that have come from the parties, one of the proposals will be able to bring together a majority in the Folketing, and this offers some exciting opportunities for creating better conditions and for this Parliament to live up to the law that we ourselves have adopted, that students have a right to have good relations. So I look forward to the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115400	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115404	Thank you, sir. Lars Dohn for an excellent report, and thank you for the fine proposal from the Enhedslisten, which the Danish People's Party supports. As the rapporteur himself says, it seems that a majority can be established for B 40, in other words the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. The Left has said they will vote in favour, we will vote in favour, the SF has said they will vote in favour, and the Liberal Alliance will wait for committee proceedings. The Enhedslisten is also positive and will vote in favour of B 40 if a proper and sensible solution can be found. Is that how I'm supposed to understand Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115441	We are in favour of everything that provides better conditions for our students and students. One can say that this is a very technical question, and the proposal from the Danish People's Party goes on renovations of schools. But it is actually the case that when you renovate, the latest building regulations must apply, and there is a maximum of 1,000 ppm that is the requirement. So in those situations, it's not relevant. However, since the resolution is also moving in the right direction, we would very much like to support your proposals as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115517	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115521	I would like to thank you very much for that. I think it is exciting that it seems that we can break the usual blocks here if the Liberal Alliance can also join in, or we will have a look at it in committee. I find it interesting that you can sometimes cross the blocks. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115540	Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115543	Well, it is also nice to note that there is a willingness to do something concrete about this, and perhaps even a majority, when it comes to our children's learning, and not just to say that it is the responsibility of the municipalities and that they must take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115556	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. You want me to try to reach sir, too? Alex Ahrendtsen before the break? Yeah, we'll see.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115608	Thank you for a very exciting and somewhat surprising debate. It seems that there is a possible majority for B 40, which is the proposal of the Danish People's Party. The Left has indicated that they will vote in favour, the SF has said yes, the Enhedslisten has also, the Danish People's Party of course, and the Liberal Alliance will wait for the committee procedure, but I wonder if we can reach each other in this regard. That is why I would urge the Minister at some point perhaps to call the parties for some sort of discussion so that we can do this in the right way. I would certainly do that myself, but of course the Minister can answer that question. Let me just make it clear, for the sake of good order, that this is not going to cost any money at all, because it is primarily about a plan, a national plan for KL and the government, so the municipalities consider indoor climates in their renovations, and then, secondly, about a study of how they do it in Norway and Sweden. I think we can find out in committee. So thank you once again, even to the government, after all, even though they are traditionally always against resolutions. And then there's lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326115739	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 63.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326130052	Then we are ready to resume the meeting. The debate is open and I will begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326130119	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, which is an opportunity to discuss what I actually think we are all deeply concerned about in the Folketing, namely that we should have schools which, as far as possible, have a free environment, whether we are talking primary schools, youth education or other education. In any case, we must have clear strategies on how to intervene, identify and follow up so that, as early as possible, we can both prevent and take action if there are problems. On behalf of the government, I'd like to start that way. Because we have had a good cooperation with SF on this, among other things. in relation to some of the things we have jointly adopted on the new school. However, when I look at the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, I do not see that there is anything in it that we have not already taken together today. It is on the grounds that the government rejects the SF's motion for a resolution, but it is an opportunity to get a picture of what you do then, because we fully agree with the intention that you really have to think about to find out how best to prevent bullying all around. This is how it is and it is the first element of the SF's motion for a resolution that the legislation already contains both a responsibility and a duty for the school's managers and employees to ensure that all pupils have a good and secure learning environment without bullying. It is the case that, under the Education Environment Act, school leaders are responsible for ensuring that pupils have a good educational environment, and a learning environment is good when it promotes pupils' development and learning, and therefore it also includes the mental environment of the school. If it is the case that a student does not comply with the school's rules of order, rules of value and, moreover, general standards of good conduct, then the reason must be clarified through discussions with the student and the parents, because it is clear that as early parent involvement as possible is important to find solutions. And I think it will also be possible to hear that my speech is imbued with the fact that solutions need to be found as early as possible if there are incentives for bullying. In serious cases, teachers and heads of schools are obliged to inform the social services when there is knowledge or reason to believe that a pupil needs special support or is subject to abuse. This implies an obligation to also clarify the reasons for pupils' violation of the rules of order and the rules of value and to take the necessary measures, and it has been compulsory for schools to have such a set of values since 2009. Among other things, it has to be done. include an anti-bulb strategy and guide good behaviour and respectful relationships between pupils and between students and teachers. I would like to stress once again that parents naturally have a responsibility to ensure that pupils have a good educational environment, and that is why it is also the school board that sets the value set for the school. The rules must be drawn up in close cooperation with the head of the school, and input from the parents, the student council and the employees should also be included. If, as a student or parent, one finds that the school does not comply with the rules in force, one can turn to the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament, and with the creation of the Ombudsman's Children's Office in 2012, children's access to the Ombudsman and cases concerning children is, moreover, given an extra focus. In the context of the creation of the Children's Office, the Ombudsman's activities have also been extended to cover the situation of children in private institutions, etc., who are directly responsible for tasks relating to children, and therefore include, among other things: private schools as well. If we look at the reform of primary schools, of which a broad circle of parties is part, then one of the three national goals is to follow the development of the well-being of pupils. It is, of course, one of the innovations that we are following both professional development so that everyone becomes as skilled as they can, regardless of social background, but that we will also be sure that it is on a foundation of solid well-being and that the well-being of the pupils is strengthened. We do, among other things. through the new measurement of well-being which is coming, and which not only relates to the physical environment, but also to the psychological environment, and it is the pupils' own voice that forms the basis for it. The well-being measurement simply includes specific questions that can indicate whether there are problems with bullying in a school or in a class. In collaboration with the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, exemplary courses and guidance material have also been prepared in connection with implementation and follow-up of the well-being measurements, so there are methods for entering and working with the entire class's well-being. It is an important part of the joint new school. Following recommendations from a group of experts on calm and class management, which was also set up as part of the reform of primary schools, we will publish in the Ministry of Education in spring 2015 a guide on calm and class management that can support the school's work in maintaining and developing good learning environments. The resolution also addresses one of the new forms of bullying that has been highlighted: bullying on social media and what can happen there. This is, of course, another road where, unfortunately, we have also heard and seen cases of bullying, which are, of course, totally unacceptable, whether physically in class space or via social media. Unfortunately, bullying is something that is difficult to control and control. It is also on social media, but it does not change the fact that the regulatory framework is exactly the same. One has to spot as early as possible whether there are behaviors that might indicate bullying, and whether it is via social media or in the classroom or elsewhere, there is an obligation to intervene as quickly as possible. A number of exemplary learning sessions have also been prepared on how to support children's knowledge of how to discuss and work with the dilemmas of bullying through social media, in close cooperation with a number of organisations, including the European Commission. Children's Terms and others who have made a really good supporting material for the incredibly important discussion about bullying via the web. This does not change the fact that even if it is done through social media, it is a criminal offence to make defamatory and defamatory statements or to pass on or otherwise abuse sensitive personal information and to make threats. Again, whether it is in the physical world or through social media, it is punishable. It is also a criminal offence to process personal data in breach of the Personal Data Act. The Data Protection Agency may require that information on the Internet be removed, as well as defamatory statements should be reported to the police. It is just to say that there is a set of rules for this but it is also about, and it is also the intention of the SF's resolution, as early as possible, hopefully before one gets into it, that one can put in, and there are a number of tools and guides on how to take the dialogues along with the anti-bullying strategies that fortunately have improved and better at working with. Against this background, the government does not support the SF's motion for a resolution, but I also hope that it is clear to both the SF and everyone who wants to hear the debate here that we are just as busy as they are of the issues of bullying. Although, according to the latest studies, the level of bullying has fallen, it has to be said that bullying is unacceptable, even if there is not so much, because bullying is completely wrong for every child. It's something that sets deep ground. If there is a bullying culture, it is something that matters to a whole class's relations, so we are deeply concerned about it, but in fact we believe that we have together a number of initiatives that support the fight against bullying and prevent it as early as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326130903	I thank the Minister for Education. And we move on to the list of speakers. The next is the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326130915	Thank you. Bullying in childhood is a traumatizing experience. It can cause depression and anxiety, and it can haunt you for the rest of your life. That is why combating bullying is very important. We, as politicians and as people, are obliged to fight bullying. It is therefore commendable that, with this proposal, the SF should put the subject on the agenda here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Specifically, SF puts forward four initiatives to stop bullying. Firstly, it must be made clear in the legislation that schools have a duty to act against bullying. Secondly, if the school fails to fulfil its obligation to act, the individual student must have access to the Danish Parliament Ombudsman. Thirdly, the government must collect necessary knowledge about combating bullying, and fourthly, bullying on social media must be mapped out and those who are being bullied must be given the opportunity to delete the offending content. The Left welcomes initiatives aimed at combating bullying. Last month, the Left itself presented an anti-bullying document. Part of the Left's anti-bullying initiative is that it must be possible to sanction adults who do not intervene against bullying. It has to be done, for example. be possible to pronounce criticism of a school if it does not do anything to combat bullying. At the same time, it is also a parental responsibility to ensure that your children do not bully other children. The parents of bullies must therefore be able to be held responsible for the conduct of their children. In the most extreme cases, parents can be thought of as a possible tool. Another part of the Left's anti-bullying game is that more evidence needs to be collected. It could, for example, be done. be appropriate to use funds from the rate pool to ensure that research is carried out in the fight against bullying. Finally, it is also part of the Left's proposal that combating bullying on social media should be better dealt with. It is therefore proposed to launch a campaign that makes it clear where and how to block and report bullied users. This campaign can very well be conceived in being made in cooperation with e.g. Facebook. So there are a few obvious similarities between the anti-bullying action of the Left, which was presented last month, and the initiatives of the SF in this proposal. The Left is not quite sure whether it is necessary to make a definite paragraph on the right to delete the offending content, and the Left is also doubtful about the effect of being able to complain to the Parliamentary Ombudsman. We believe that matters should be better dealt with in the municipalities, and one can already complain to the Parliamentary Ombudsman's Children's Office today. Otherwise we see it as if the Left and the SF far along the way want the same thing here. That is why the Left is in favour of the intentions of this proposal. As the Conservatives do not have the opportunity to be present, I must state on behalf of the Conservatives that the Conservatives do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131210	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131221	I am very pleased that Mrs Schack Elholm sees opportunities in cooperation to get something done about bullying, and that is why I would just like to hear whether Mrs Schack Elholm will help us to discuss it in committee so that we can find what we are gathering about for the benefit of the far too many children and young people who are meeting in school today with stomach pain; they should not do that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131246	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131247	No, and I very much agree that we must have done something to help those children who are in trouble. Of course, in the reform of primary schools we have a focus on well-being, but I also believe that we should do more, so I am open to looking at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131257	Then there are no further brief comments, and I would like to thank Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Then it is the next rapporteur and that is Mrs Annette Lind from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131307	On the social democratic side, we always want to discuss how to ensure the best possible everyday life for our children in primary school. We are pleased that the well-being of children and young people is an area that is allowed to fill even more with the new framework for primary school. After all, the aim of the reform is precisely that all children should be included and that it should create an even stronger primary school, a primary school, which is the first choice for parents throughout the country and where our children and young people will be as skilled as they can. But this is not just about new subjects; it is also very much about focusing on well-being. Children and young people must never feel that they do not belong; the school must be a place where they both teach and play, where they have good friends and where they are happy to be. That is why we Social Democrats are also very keen to put an end to the bullying. So one child being bullied is a child too much. I myself have had a time in primary school and have seen what it does to children when they are subjected to bullying, and that is why you have to take action immediately. That is why we fully agree with the SF in its intention. But first and foremost, we have new goals for well-being in primary school, which we follow up on; with the group of experts on calm and class management, which is in the process of securing concrete tools for pupils, teachers and educators; with the establishment of the Children's Office in 2012, which has increased the focus on children, and they already have the opportunity to complain to the Ombudsman today. After all, a great deal is being done in schools, where you take responsibility for having a policy in this area with an anti-bullying strategy, and we believe that schools can shoulder that responsibility and task. It is important that bullying is one of the things that is dealt with immediately, and therefore it is not allowed to develop. So while the proposalers' intention is very sympathetic, we in the Socialist Group believe that bullying is something that cannot be legislated for alone. That is why we do not support the proposal, but we take the well-being of schools very seriously, and we look forward to having the new survey of well-being for this year and continue to work to ensure that schools are a good place for our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131519	There is a brief comment from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131532	It is always very sympathetic to want to discuss, but what I just don't think the children and young people who go to school can wait for is another measurement and another evaluation. Because we all know them all, the children who get up in the morning and have stomach ache, who do not thrive in school, who cannot learn what else they can, who make excuses and have ditch days, and who unfortunately also gets, for many, but who sit there for the rest of their lives. Does the Socialist rapporteur think that what is possible today in going to the Ombudsman is enough? I simply need to know that, because it is certainly not the experience of the children and young people who are affected by this. But does the Socialist rapporteur think that what is today is enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131621	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131622	With the new framework for primary school, we have three main objectives, as Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen knows. It is about having all children become as skilled as they can, regardless of social difference, and so it must also be the case that they should be happy to go to school, and therefore the well-being measurements are something central to the new framework for primary school. We are going to have to measure both the physical and the psychological, and we must take action against bullying; there is no doubt at all that this is one of the things for which we have a huge responsibility in schools. But there is legislation today, and with the new framework for primary school and well-being measurements we have come a quite long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131705	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131707	But perhaps the Socialist rapporteur could nevertheless be a little more precise? Because in relation to the inquiries I get from children and young people who are being bullied, I don't think that's a very good answer to them to say: I can hear what you say, but I'm waiting for a survey of well-being. What would the rapporteur suggest that we should respond to the children who are again writing tomorrow about what needs to be done about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131732	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131734	This is a responsibility you have in the schools. We need to create an anti-bullying strategy and we have a huge responsibility in schools. After the creation of the Children's Office in 2012, you can complain to the Ombudsman and you have a stronger obligation to approach the authorities. There are a number of things that have been set in motion here. I do not think that more legislation will make children less bullied. This must be tackled from day one when you discover it, and you should not wait for the Ombudsman to give you a decision. So this is about when a child gets bullied, you have to take it seriously, and you have to act on it right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131810	Then I can thank Mrs Annette Lind and give the floor to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326131819	Thank you. Minimisation of bullying, whether it takes place in school or in leisure or in a workplace, has everyone's focus, including the Danish People's Party. That is why it is also a very sympathetic proposal that the proposers highlight, and the subject is highly topical. Unfortunately, we see an increasing trend towards bullying on social media. This means that bullying can take place at any time of the day, why bullying can act as a stress factor and a psychological strain, where the young person never gets a free space. It is also unpleasant to see your name the pig or see a picture in a private or embarrassing situation uploaded on the web, or to be put for hatred in a facebook group without the possibility of getting it deleted. And maybe you don't know who the sender is either, because they often appear anonymously. Therefore, the Danish People's Party also welcomes paragraph d. of the proposal that the person being bullied should have the opportunity to delete the offending content. In recent years, the public schools have been given more focus on bullying, both through an anti-bullying strategy and through the well-being measurements introduced with the new reform of the primary school to identify how the student feels. It forces the headmaster to act. We believe that paragraph a. The motion for a resolution is therefore superfluous and too far-reaching. And the same applies to point b., as this will mean that responsibility for the schools is taken away from the management and the municipality. As it is today, children also have the opportunity to contact the Ombudsman's Children's Office. Parents can go to the head of the school and, at the very least, they can also contact the council members if they feel that the head of the school does not take the necessary steps. The schools are a local matter, and one might think that the proposers want to deprive the municipalities of responsibility for the folk schools and centralise the decisions, and the Danish People's Party does not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132035	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. We move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left. Didn't I have more time? I wasn't done. Didn't I have more time?). I'm sorry, it's that when you take too long breaks, the President thinks you're done right away. I'm so sorry. I see I'm doing what I can to harass people today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132057	That's the way it is, and we'll try to give it back a little bit. Thank you for letting me continue. There has been a desire and demand from schools and especially parents' groups for tools to cope with the growing trend of bullying, and we must do everything we can to help it. So a collaboration between KL, Danmarks Lærerforening, Skolelederforeningen, Danske Skolelever and other experts in order to be able to gather knowledge about good methods of handling bullying situations sees Dansk Folkeparti as an initiative that will be one of several tools that will be applicable in the individual schools, and hopefully in a strong collaboration between the school and the parents involved. As I said, bullying is something we in the Danish People's Party take very seriously. That is why we also fought to tighten up the announcement of the promotion of good order. We had suggested in the primary school negotiations that violent and very gross bullying pupils should be able to We see, unfortunately, often that it is the victims of bullying who have to move school, and in addition to having a traumatic experience, it is also incredibly insulting that you are the one who suffers this defeat and then has to take your good clothes and walk. We absolutely believe that it is the bully who should move away. Since the resolution contains a great many sympathetic and good initiatives that we in the Danish People's Party would like to highlight, we aim for a report in the committee that all parties are behind, where we can signal the importance of keeping a focus on bullying and, in particular, how bullying can be minimized. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132244	Yes, I am sorry once again, but it was good that the latter came along, I think. But at least I will pass on the floor to Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132254	Thank you. Also thanks to SF for raising an important debate on bullying. In the Radical Left, we share the wish that we should be even better at creating well-being in schools. But maybe it's not time for any more rules right now. It is not that politicians always make more rules. Sometimes it's about getting better at making the rules that already exist work in reality. And we have just given special attention to the well-being of school. Bullying is a child's problem, but it is the responsibility of adults. And stop bullying campaigns very often about children not to tease or bully. We are about to end this, because it is the responsibility of the adults to stop the bullying. In these days, Children's Terms and the Trygfonden run a campaign about the responsibilities of adults, which focuses on the joint resolution of bullying. With the reform of primary school, we set ourselves together well-being as one of three objectives. We have had some talented people design a well-being survey to strengthen the school's work on the well-being of pupils, for example. in the form of bets in the individual classes. In addition, it is already the case today that teachers and school leaders have an increased duty to inform the social services if they are concerned or suspect that a student has been subjected to abuse. It is also already a crime today to make defamatory and defamatory statements, to threaten violence or to pass on sensitive personal information. The legislation allows to close websites or remove certain content. It is also the case that anyone can apply to the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament for a decision taken by the authorities or for the treatment they have received. This also allows us to address ourselves today in the case of the lack of action by the school management in connection with bullying. So we are thinking in the Radical Left that it is not necessarily right to make more rules, but I am happy to listen to why SF thinks new rules are needed, and perhaps also to ideas on how we can do ours together to strengthen our efforts with the rules that we have already made together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132523	Then there is one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132529	I am glad that Radicals also think this is an important debate, and I would also like to take part in looking at what Mrs Lotte Rod has to say about the responsibility of management. I am very much in agreement with that. Does Mrs Lotte Rod have any suggestions on how to impress on the management that it is their responsibility and also to get them to act within the current regulatory framework that we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132553	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132555	Yes, I think we have taken a very important step together in the public school circle with the new reform of primary school, where we have made well-being one of the three objectives, and where we have asked some really talented people who, according to their own statements, had been waiting for 20 years to be allowed to do so, to make these issues of well-being that can help put an agenda out in schools. Because I think it is really very important in this discussion that we get away from the picture that some people are drawing from the fact that there are some children who are bullying some other children and that it is about how they are together in class and, at least, what kind of relationships they have with each other, and the responsibility of the adult to create the good relationships. So I think that it is really a very big step that we are taking with the reform of primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132646	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132648	Yes, but really great steps have been taken in the past which have not meant so much, so what would Mrs Lotte Rod suggest that we say to those students who are also writing in tomorrow about systematic persecution, systematically ill-being? We have to take these children and young people seriously. In fact, they experience that it is not, as it were, that they are becoming more and more quiet, retreating more and more, making teachers and educators and leaders see them more and more. So just one piece of good advice for what we can do from tomorrow, I'd like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132720	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132721	The children who experience it must go to their teacher, and if they do not feel they get enough out of it, then they must go to the head of the school, because it is the head of the school's responsibility to ensure that all children thrive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132735	Yeah. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. We move on to Mr. Lars Dohn of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326132743	Thank you. There are two really happy things about bullying. One is, of course, that the number of bullied students has fallen quite sharply. In 1998 it was 1 in 4 students who reported being bullied at school, and now we are so neatly down. Another, I think, happy thing about this is that it helps to do something. When you make some bets, most recently here about introducing a bullying policy, it helps. So that means that we are not facing some phenomenon that will just get worse and worse; we are facing something that we can do something about, a phenomenon that we can do something about. I also have the feeling that the whole political compass is prepared to do something here. The Enhedslisten is also prepared to participate in the work that needs to be done to identify some of the things that can help reduce bullying. But at the same time, you drive the wrong way out in primary school. Today there is the highest possible class quotient in recent times. Clearly, the risk of bullying increases, the more students there are in a class. We have also seen that inclusion, even in cases where it is not the best for the child, provides some bullying situations. We can read about them in the daily press, in the Folkeskole magazine, and elsewhere. The same is true of the situation created by the reform of primary schools and the failure of collective agreements on teachers, where the pupils constantly meet several temporary workers. And a temp isn't as good at solving these tasks as a real teacher-educated teacher or educator. This is, of course, also linked to what we mentioned earlier in the day, namely the poor indoor climate. When you sit in, I almost said dirty or bad air, the risk is growing that you become outgoingly responsive. We also know from studies that the way in which the school is organized, whether you have just driven to a whole lot of asphalt, or whether you have created an exciting school room, is also crucial to whether there is bullying. So all these things are involved. I also think that there is another thing that we need to have in mind here, and it is whether the Education Environment Act is the right instrument, whether it works properly enough. There, too, we have mentioned earlier this day the possibility that students and students will be covered by health and safety legislation. We therefore believe that the Education Environment Act should be re-evaluated. Similarly, the whole new situation surrounding the new media also exposes people in schools and society to new situations that we have to deal with. In other words, this agenda for bullying keeps working on. However, as I said, the Enhedslisten will be a positive part of the committee's work, and we also have the feeling that there is a good will to seek together some sensible initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326133136	Thank you, sir. Lars Dohn. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326133146	Thank you. I think I can say that no one in this thing looks at bullying lightly. People do not live by air and food alone, we need to be accepted, we need friendships and we need to be elected. Adults can also bully, and not only weak people are being bullied; strong people can also be excluded from the community and experience the violent situation of being bullied. But when it comes to children, there are special circumstances. First of all, children cannot move as adults can. They can't just choose another school, just like we can choose a different place of work. Children are developing, and that also means that what happens to them while they are children can sit down as lasting but for the rest of their lives. And then children aren't born altruists, that is to say, the treat ment of each other properly is something you have to learn. You have to learn to associate with each other in a way that doesn't harm each other, and as a child you can sometimes find yourself in a situation with some children who haven't yet learned it. And that is why the role of parents is absolutely crucial when we talk about bullying. For all the rules that do not necessarily stand in any place about how to show empathy, how to treat one another respectfully and with care, is something one must learn from one's parents. In the family you learn the basic rules of the game, and regardless of the fact that school and kindergarten can try to step in, especially for those children who do not have the opportunities at home to learn these rules of the game, you just have to say that the school and kindergarten cannot take over the role that parents have, that is impossible. If there is bullying, it is important for adults to intervene. Today it is the case that when there is a very violent bullying, it is usually the child who gets bullied that ends up moving school. It is such a practice that we have been given, it is a culture that we have that often happens. We should turn that back. We should have a debate about whether we cannot try to organize it in such a way that it is the bully who has to move school. I know it's not easy, it's not easy at all, but it's about what we do today, many times not working very well. And it is a huge defeat for the child who is being bullied, moving school and having to start over, it is a great responsibility to impose on the individual. And there may well be situations where you know very well who is starting the ballad, who is triggering it, and then it is the child who has to be appointed by the school to move school. You have to grab the parents and say: you simply have to move your child, because this child is creating some problems that we have tried to solve, but it has not succeeded. Another thing is that when we talk about bullying, it is important that we distinguish between bullying and other situations, for example. anti-Semitism, which we have discussed in a recent consultation here. Anti-Semitism is therefore racism, and it is something that goes beyond a common bullying problem. When we discussed it in the open consultation, the Minister said that it is to some extent a problem of bullying, but I do not agree with that. Racism and anti-Semitism must be accompanied by quite different action plans; these are some things that are serious and that may have huge implications for civil society, so that should be addressed separately. Then it is also important to distinguish between teasing and bullying in a teacher's booth. For, of course, children have to tease each other too. That's okay, but where's the limit? We must always talk about this, including when it comes to violence. Because again there may be some kids pushing each other over in the schoolyard, that's an ordinary part of growing up, but when it turns into real violence and threats, punches, kicks, maybe even having a knife in school, then the school has to step in, and unfortunately there are examples of that not happening. So the responsibility lies with the adults, and it is also local for the Liberal Alliance. And there I just have to say that the SF and the Liberal Alliance look differently at how to solve problems that are about humanity that are about the relationship between people. And there are some of these things that can be made guides on, but a lot of the bullying problems that are have to be solved by the fact that there are some really talented school leaders and some talented teachers. I do not believe in the fact that these schedules we are now sending out in connection with the reform of primary school solve anything, the schools are so different, so this is about local leadership and personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326133649	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager. We move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326133703	Thank you very much for a very good reception of SF's proposal to combat bullying. It is certainly a very good day for me, as I can see that we really agree that, firstly, something needs to be done about this, and secondly, which is just as important that something can be done about it and that we have already done something about it. We in the SF have chosen to table this resolution with the clear aim of stopping bullying, just like the stop bullying campaign that is running, and just giving children the rights that they are entitled to when the school fails to fulfil their duty to act. For some must act, some must see the children most often hiding, because it is both embarrassing and shameful not to be one of the popular ones. It's not fun to get up every morning and know that today I'm gonna be teased too. It is true, as Mrs Merete Riisager also says, that there is a difference between teasing, bullying, a little loose tone, etc., but bullying is characterised by systematic cross-border comments, which repeat themselves over and over again, which have the tones of being racist, sexist, which can go on being overweight or too thin, or as Ellen in the 9th grade describes, that every day to drive on the school bus and should listen to the fact that there is such a choir sitting there saying: "Sick sack, sloppy sacks, what are you, etc.? It is not possible to stop it, and there is no adult intervention. It is also the boy who is actually very concerned about going to school, who fits his things, which may not be one of the biggest, not one of those who does best on the football field, and when he raises his hand and wants to answer a question asked, it comes from behind every time: fessor, fessor. It is also said when he tries to dress up for sport, and it is also said on the bicycle ride home. This bullying has some very violent consequences, and for many it persecutes them far into adulthood, and it is very traumatic, and it is also very destructive. If a child is subjected to bullying, there is in fact no place to complain today in the real world unless school or parents take action. Children have no right to solve their problems, which affect them far into their adult lives for many. That is why it is that I and the SF believe that we need to take responsibility and cooperation. Many of the rapporteurs now mention this, too: yes, we must work together, and that must be done by children, schools, parents, organisations, and we must also do so by political means. Then it is, of course, that we in the SF have chosen to table this motion for a resolution, which is precisely the basis for cooperation, but most importantly it is to ensure that children have the opportunity to avoid being in a situation where they have nowhere to go and get help or where no one sees them or where no one takes them seriously. Our resolution has four elements. One is to tighten up the legislation, and yes, there is legislation, and no, the answer is not always more legislation, but at least to tighten up the legislation so that it is clear that schools have a duty to act against bullying at school, and that a school must therefore unfortunately have witnessed cases where the school has not responded, even after repeated inquiries by both children and parents, and that is totally unacceptable. Schools have a duty to take action. That's one thing. The second is that if a school fails to fulfil its obligation to act, a student who has been harassed or offended must have the opportunity to complain to the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament. Today, children simply do not have the legal means to complain. It just must not happen that a child is unable to get the help that adults have. Adults have the opportunity to complain and seek help when we are subjected to bullying, violations, etc. at our workplace. The children have, and must also have, a right. Several have said that you can go to the Ombudsman, but in the real world, that is not what is experienced, among other things. because children and parents are not informed that this is an option. We know, among other things. from the Children's Phone, who receives calls every day from desperate children who do not know where else to go. The third proposal is that the government, in collaboration with the National Association of Municipalities, School and Parents, the Danish Teacher Association, the School Leader Association, Danske Skolelever and experts, collects the necessary knowledge in order to disseminate good methods to deal with bullying situations. This was also one of the things that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm mentioned, and also Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radicals, namely that we need more knowledge, and we also need systematic knowledge, we need knowledge. In the SF, we believe that the way to get to grips with bullying is through cooperation and through sharing experience across organisations and institutions, and in this respect it is important that the cooperation also includes parents, and therefore I agree with the interpretation from Mrs Merete Riisager, yes, I agree that there are many things that the Liberal Alliance and the SF disagree with the fact that it is the parents' responsibility to take care of the students. There is no doubt about that at all. Parents play a major role in combating and preventing bullying. They must also be involved and, above all, be informed of how to handle it as a parent if your child is being bullied or if your child is the one who is bullying. Finally, the fourth point is that the bullying of children and young people on digital and social media and its consequences must be mapped out. There are also several rapporteurs today who say that it is a new flat to be on that it is a new room to be in, and it never stops. Digital bullying is a major and increasing problem, while more and more children and young people use social media daily, bullying has moved from schoolyard to the Internet, so to speak. And it's not just moved. Many cases of bullying online have become a supplement to the bullying that is taking place in the physical world. This means that the children cannot get a break from the bullying when the Internet and social media are on the ground. Where the home has previously been a lure when you came inside the door, it stopped there and then bullying has now moved home, and it is constantly present. In this context, it is then that we want and care will be taken to ensure that those who have been bullied on social media have access to the removal of the offending content so that it cannot pursue them later in life or by any transfer to another school. I very much welcome both the support for us to have the debate here and also the support for us to discuss this matter further in committee. It is the case that I would like to repeat to the Minister, who unfortunately rejects our proposal, but I think that is more of a principle, that on the content and on what the Minister of Education mentioned, we are of course very much in agreement. So what will be left of my question, which I hope we can do in committee, is: what do we do when it does not happen when we have legislation, since we have paragraphs, now that we know that the school boards have to draw up an anti-bullying strategy? We all agree on all that, but when that does not happen, what do we do and how do we safeguard and safeguard the rights of the children who are being violated and thus persecuted by it for the rest of their lives? To Mrs Schack Elholm from the Left, who mentions that there are some similarities, I would say that yes, it is there, and I would like to see us working on the similarities that exist, and we must do this for the sake of the children we are dealing with here, and it is precisely about creating more knowledge and having a serious committee procedure in this area. Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party also mentions that we need to discuss it and also do it at school, and it is important that we take some of these initiatives together and then, of course, get a look at the experiences that come through the well-being objectives. But we also have to say something out loud, and now I can do it from here, that all children have the right to complain, that all parents have the right to complain. It is the headmaster's responsibility, and you have to act on it, you can't avoid acting. To Mrs Susanne Eilersen of the Danish People's Party, who mentioned that perhaps we from the SF were out to take responsibility from the municipalities, I would certainly like to say here: No, by no means. We are not at all, but we are looking to the municipal authorities to take on the responsibility that belongs to them and to do so in schools. So to the Radical Left, Mrs Lotte Rod, who mentions the responsibility of adults and the responsibility of the leader, I would say that is absolutely correct. It simply needs to be embroidered, it needs to be hung up everywhere: be careful that people are created here. It must be above every school door, and every day the manager must exercise his or her leadership. The Enhedslisten mentioned the previous discussion we have had today on an environmental education law, and I would welcome the fact that children too are given a health and safety law to be under. Finally, Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance mentions that there is something that the SF and the Liberal Alliance are looking at very differently, and that is where I would say: yes, there is, but there is also something that we are looking at equally, and it is precisely the cooperation and the involvement of parents in this work, and I very much hope for that, so that today's debate provides a basis for us to have a serious, constructive discussion for the benefit of these children, whom we are all concerned about. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326134736	I thank Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326134754	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326134811	Thank you. Across the parties of the Folketing, we have a goal that we would like to have more passengers on the field. We'd like more passengers on our train. That is why we have launched massive investments in the railways. Since 2009, we have really put turbo on investment in a better railway. To get the full benefit of these many investments, it requires modernisation of the Railway Act, and that is exactly what this draft law is about: a much-needed revision and modernisation of the existing railway law. The main objective of the review is to implement EU rules as well as to create a clear, simple and operational railway law that can precisely support the goal of getting more passengers and more goods on the track. The draft law implements, inter alia: further opening up of market access in relation to access to rail-related service facilities such as maintenance centres and preparation centres. This is something we very much welcome in the Left. Now all we have to do is follow up on the fact that we will have more competition on the rails themselves, but we will have to do so on a later occasion. There is also a new concept called urban railways. This concept includes metro, light rails and S-trains, and thus adapts the rules to take into account among others. the upcoming light lanes, which come in Aarhus, west of Copenhagen, Odense and Aalborg. In addition, there are a number of other minor adjustments to the Railway Act, all of which will help to ensure that in the coming years passengers and freight rail operators can benefit fully from the very large-scale investments we are making on the railways. All in all, the bill represents a good step forward for railborne traffic in Denmark, and therefore the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135021	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen gives the floor to the next rapporteur, who is Mr Lorentzen. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135032	Of course, from the Socialist side too, we can support this good and constructive proposal. There is no doubt, as the rapporteur of the Left has also said, that the railways are developing rapidly. We all have very high expectations of Danish railway operations. We would like more people to take advantage of the train, whether it is passengers who are going to drive, or it is goods where we would like to get even more on the much more environmentally friendly rail freight service. When it is that there have been a lot of knob shots compared to rules changes, EU directives and other regulations it therefore also makes sense to make this package in a new bill, where you simply pick up all the different things that have been changed along the way, so we get a single law that ensures that everything with the Danish railway operation is under control. And there is therefore a very good proposal here which, as the rapporteur of the Left has already mentioned, concerns a number of different EU rules that are being written in. These are things that we have taken into account in order to ensure better cooperation when it comes to driving down Europe, so that we do not need to have new drivers on board because there is a new signal programme, but that we have a common signal programme. It is also about ensuring better market access so that others can get in with some of the services that are in relation to the railway. So, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, we have been historically ambitious, and I am glad that the Left notes that we in the government have been so ambitious in terms of light rails and such developments. For that must of course also be taken into account in such a proposal, so that when we have light rail lanes in the largest cities, we also have a railway law covering this area where we have been so ambitious in investing it. Finally, there is a passage on expropriation, so that, to the extent that we find ourselves in the situation where, unfortunately, we have to go in and change people's private property, because the interests of society mean that something has to happen, we have put together one place, that is to say, how we expropriate and other things, in order to ensure that the interests of the general good are served without the individual being violated on his private property.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135250	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135310	Thank you very much. As the rapporteur on this proposal is absent, I have promised to read out the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's speech. The proposal basically concerns a review and an update of the applicable railway legislation and the implementation of EU rules. The aim is to create a clear and simple operational railway law that can support more passengers and more freight on the railway. Therefore, it is also a continuation of existing law where it has only been made more transparent and user-friendly, but it may be possible to discuss whether a proposal of only 106 pages can be regarded as user-friendly. A new concept such as urban railway is introduced, which includes metro, light rail and S-rails, which have certain common features. A special definition is introduced for light rails which are defined in relation to other traffic on rails, as light rails can both drive in their own trace and drive in the road according to the rules of the Road Traffic Code. The European Union consists of a further opening-up of market access to rail-related service facilities, including maintenance facilities, preparation centres and rules for the Maritime Commission. The Danish People's Party welcomes the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135421	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135432	The Radical Left can support the bill as it stands. I am not going to go through all the details of the bill • some of my colleagues have mentioned it, and I know that the Minister for Transport will also make a further statement • but I would like to note that the draft law in particular implements some EU law that Denmark has supported, and then it is the applicable law that is being continued. It is a law that has a few years on the back, and sometimes we have to update the laws so that they still make sense. The most important innovation in the law is that some clauses are now being introduced on light lanes, modern trams that are being built a lot of in Denmark, and it is of course perfectly natural that the country's railway law now also contains this new type of railway that is being built around. The railway operators have been involved in the work on the updated Railway Act and there are positive consultation responses. I think there is reason to commend the Ministry of Transport for a great deal of work in modernising this law in cooperation with the various actors. The Radical Left can support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135546	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, who has given us great expectations of the Minister for Transport's speech in this debate; I look forward to that very much. But in the first place it is Mrs Anne Baastrup from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135556	The proposal for a law is large and immediately complex, there are many elements to fit in and there are many special interests associated with this proposal. I found it interesting to see in the comments that, in addition to the other objectives, namely the implementation of EU rules, there is also a goal to make the law easier to understand for citizens, and I think that ambition is fantastic that the ministry has. I would also like to say that when you read the bill and you can see that kind of complicated system, it looks square and clear, and it's actually not as nerdy as you might think when you plunge into it for the first time. The consultation answers also show that, in the case of the unrest, which is obviously linked to possible distortions of competition and other factors, because it is high interests that have tried to resolve it in a relatively clear manner. So, to me, it seems that the ministry has hit quite precisely with the way in which we now have to make some decisions. So we support it. It is funny that we are now getting a new definition of urban railways, and it is interesting that we have had clarity about what the Havari Commission should be dealing with and what the expropriation authorities should be dealing with, and also that they are in agreement. So praise to the Ministry, and then, of course, praise to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135723	Thank you to Mrs Anne Baastrup. Then it's mr. Lars Dohn for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326135730	Thank you. As Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Henning Hyllested, sits on a train somewhere else on some other business, I have to read his speech. It is commendable that the proposal simplifies and modernises the applicable railway law. However, it does not seem to have been entirely successful, as a number of consultation responses point out that there are still vague terms and wordings. For Enhedslisten there are three things in particular in the proposal that call for our interest. It's the Havari Commission, it's the Railways Board, and it's the railroad freight. It is doubtful that railway undertakings and no longer the Havari Commission should investigate their own accidents. Does this mean, for example, that DSB itself has to investigate when IC4 trains collide during ranking? This can help to weaken general rail safety. The introduction of self-control in, among other things: The food industry turned out to be a rooftop self-table, and why should railway companies be different? One should not tempt people beyond their ability, so Enhedslisten recommends that it be deleted from the bill. In several hearings, criticism is raised and it coincides with the criticism made by Enhedslisten when examining Bill No. L 170 in 2010 on amending the Railway Act, specifically in question 6, on the problem that the Railway Board is not fully independent of the Traffic Authority. It is not only the Danish Road Traffic Authority which is responsible for its secretariat functions; you also live at the same postal address. It is problematic that the Railways Board deals with matters relating to the decisions of the Road Traffic Authority, where doubts may arise about the viability. This is supported by e.g. The Captrain case concerning the Tønder-Tinglev railway in December 2011 and the door closing procedure on the Coastal Railway in November 2011. The name must therefore be guaranteed both organisationally and have full independence. The workload of the jury is increasing and, therefore, more financial resources must be provided and more staff must be provided. Instead, they have gone the opposite way and have reduced the number in recent years. In addition, it must be provided with safety competences so that it can deal with complaints about the Road Traffic Authority's safety decisions. At the same time, we want the right of appeal to be maintained, even if there are no EU legal requirements to do so. Complaints to the courts are both costly and slow and will, in experience, prevent some from complaining about critical conditions. Rail freight, particularly domestic freight, is treated on a par with each other. We have thus not been able to clarify whether freight trains can be operated on the next Billund track, and we also think that there is a great deal missing in the hinterland for the new terminal in Hirtshals. It is important to ensure access to terminals and to have uniform tariffs based on the facilities offered. The problem is not a new one, so we must finally find a solution, especially when it turns out that the volume of rail freight is growing and that many freight customers are looking for alternatives to trucks. The Enhedslisten recommends that the terminals be placed under Banedanmark, which then leases them to a company that is not itself an operator, in order to ensure that all users have non-discriminatory access. Finally, we would recommend that the provision of Paragraph 102, which guarantees the possibility of implementing EU directives and laying down additional rules on EU regulations in the field of rail, should always be submitted to the Transport Committee and the European Committee. There are many good points in the proposal, so we are certainly not opposed to it, but we also find that the above-mentioned points make it difficult to vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. The unitary list will put questions to the Minister and then wait for what happens during committee reading. Nor should an amendment be excluded in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326140152	Thank you, sir. Lars Dohn, and we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Liberal Alliance. It's Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326140200	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has no direct objections to the here rewriting and modernisation of the Railway Act as it stands in the present draft law. It goes without saying that if you have changed a law more than ten times, there may be a need for a new combination with a different structure. I also note that efforts have been made to make it easier to read, for example. is now operating with the concept of city lanes for S-trains, metros and light rails. Most of the changes concern the implementation of EU rules in this area, not least the possibility of better market access when the EU rolls out the so-called rail packages. Although the latest tender requirements across Europe are not going so fast, we must, of course, ensure the regulatory framework. It is probably not here either, we see the biggest barriers to supply with lower prices and a higher service. Rather, it lies in technical quirks concerning track and equipment, in driving planning and organisational dependence on DSB, which has just been extended by 10 years. It should not be a secret that we think it is a pity that we can now see that old Eastern countries such as Poland, Romania and Hungary have provided more traffic than we have in Denmark and that European rail operators regard Denmark as the most closed rail country in Europe and one of the most closed in the world. That's what a top boss recently said. It is no wonder that precisely rail supply is one of the areas identified by the Government's own Productivity Commission as the most effective if the public sector is to be made more efficient. The current structure, for example. the interpretation of VAT on passenger traffic favours the maintenance of all equipment by DSB itself. A change in the VAT rules will result in a 25% increase in prices, says DSB, and it will only be possible to remain uncontroversial, even though we already have some of the highest fares in the world. We have to bear that in mind, even though they represent virtually only half of the actual price. No, it has to be said that a modernised railway law is not enough. We also need to market and reorganise the whole sector before we have a more consumer-friendly product. Let us hope that this can happen after an election, but we can accept the draft law as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326140425	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager. We move on to the next rapporteur. There's Mike Legarth from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326140433	Thank you, sir. Chairman Clausen. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill here, and we do so because it is a review and modernisation of the existing law on rail. The main objective is to create a clear, simple and operational railway law that can support the goal of getting more passengers and more goods on the track. The bill then implements further openings of market access in relation to service facilities, including maintenance and preparation centres. A new concept is introduced which includes both metro, S-train and light rail. We take note of the fact that the rules governing expropriation continue so that there is no deterioration of any kind in this respect. If we were to do something, we would rather strengthen the citizens' rights to the system, to the state. But there is no need to worry about that here. The bill, taken together, benefits passengers and operators, and there are no negative consequences. There is a small catch in the bill, namely the secretariat service of the Railways Board, which is proposed by the Road Traffic Authority, which is one of the authorities whose decisions are subject to the supervisory and decision-making powers of the Railway Board. Among other things, it has. The Railway Board itself and the Consumer Council expressed concerns about this. It is the opinion of the Railway Board that the merger of its secretariat with the Danish Road Traffic Authority will create a conflict of interests in relation to the areas in which the Danish Road Traffic Authority administers rules which are covered by its competences as either administrative complaints authority or supervisory authority. That is why I look forward to the work of the committee and will ask the Minister a question, and I do so here from the platform, namely whether it is still legitimate that it is appropriate and in accordance with EU rules to have the secretariat services of the Railway Board provided by the Transport Authority. It may be that it is legal, but is it appropriate, is it proper, is it reasonable, is it reasonable, or could we have waterproof bulkheads and completely isolated conditions so that we cannot be accused of indulgence? That is what we will be putting forward, and we will pursue it, also in the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326140655	Thank you, sir. Mike Legarth. And then we have come to the long-awaited speech by the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326140706	Thank you very much for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. This is a very, very large and very comprehensive legislative proposal. It offers a much-needed update of the law, but it also contains some new measures, and most importantly, we are implementing EU law here in the bill. The current railway law dates back to 1998, and over the last 15 years there have been major developments in the rail sector, for example, EU rules have been constantly incorporated into the law, which has thus been amended more than ten times over the period. And the many changes have meant that the law has become, if not entirely, so partly incalculable and certainly not very user-friendly. So, as we have had to implement the EU directive on the creation of a single European railway area, which regulates a number of basic conditions in the area of rail, it has been obvious to do this radical modernisation of the law. The majority of the draft law is a continuation of existing law, but the provisions have been simplified and modernised, so that the law is generally more comprehensible and therefore much, very much, should be easier to apply. In this process, the rail industry has been involved. There has been an industry consultation and there have also been two public hearings of the draft law. And the feedback from it is, overall, precisely that one is satisfied with the fact that the law has become more user-friendly. The EU directive on the creation of a single European railway area seeks to ensure the future development and access of the rail network. The draft law further opens up the rail market in relation to access to rail-related service facilities. This means that railway undertakings can have access to facilities such as: maintenance facilities and preparation centres and the services available there. At the same time, the proposal for a directive extends the concept of applicant so that other than railway undertakings can apply for infrastructure capacity. In order to comply with EU rules, the Railways Board bill gives more tasks and powers. The Railway Board carries out market surveillance, supervises and is a complaints body in the railway sector. The Railway Board shall ensure that any inappropriateness on the railway network is clarified. The bill strengthens the Railway Board's ability to do exactly that. As we have also heard that several rapporteurs have highlighted, the draft law takes into account the latest very, very positive developments in the railway sector in urban railways, i.e. metro, light rails, S-rails, which have a number of common features. In the context of this, a specific definition is introduced for light rails, and this is done in order to delineate light rail compared to other rail traffic on the railways. And light rails are distinguished by being rail-borne traffic, which can both drive in accordance with the rules of the Road Traffic Code and in its own trace. It is appropriate for urban railways to be described more closely, as it is expected that urban railways will become more important in the future, and you can just look up the political agreements and see that light rails are coming in Denmark's largest cities, and the work is already in progress in several places. And so it can be said that the bill here is future-proof to the situation that we will have in a few years' time, namely that we will have a country where there are easy lanes for the benefit of the inhabitants where they have the opportunity to use them. The draft law also brings together the general rules on the expropriation of railway installations in the Railway Act. The provisions are currently in place. in the 1965 Act on Expropriation, and it is a question of continuing and modernising existing railway expropriation homes. In these years, massive investment is being made in the railway infrastructure, and on that basis expropriation may of course be necessary, and it is therefore important to ensure clear provisions so that there is no doubt whatsoever about it and, of course, in full compliance with Article 73 of the Constitution on the inviolability of ownership. So we get a better overview by bringing together all the expropriation provisions here in one law in this area. In conclusion, I can already inform you that I am actually planning to table an amendment to the draft law as it stands here today. Because I have come to the conclusion that it would be desirable for the Chair of the Railway Board to be a judge. It will ensure that the President has the necessary legal qualifications and, at the same time, will support the independence of the name. It is the case that if you are to appoint a judge as President, it should be in the law. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal and, of course, I am prepared to answer questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326141223	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150326141243	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 27 March 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
