ParlaMint-DK_20150505130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Defence (Nicolai Wammen): Bill no. L 200 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Defence Intelligence (FE). Bill No. L 201 (Proposal for a law on network and information security). Minister for Health and Prevention (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 202 (Proposal for a law amending the law on smoke-free environments. Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 203 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the temporary regulation of housing conditions and the law on planning. Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill No. L 204 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Intelligence (PET) and the Customs Code. and handling of information on air passengers in connection with customs controls, etc.). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130104	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130141	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 46 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Morten Bødskov, Helge Vagn Jacobsen, Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and Lars Barfoed, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 86 (V, S, RV, SF, KF and ALT), against 25 (DF, EL and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 46 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 45 of Nikolaj Villumse lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130241	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130257	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 84 (V, S, RV, SF, KF and ALT), against 25 (DF, EL and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130333	Sir. Finn Sørensen wishes to speak as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130354	Thank you, President. At first reading, I said that we would announce our position on this bill at third reading. In our opinion, it makes no sense to deal with draft legislation on the Faroe Islands, and for that matter Greenland too, until we know the opinion of the parliaments of the two countries. This is a view which the two committees have repeatedly expressed to the government, and it would be a good thing if the government would listen to it, so that it will continue to do so. But now we know the Faroe Islands' position regarding this bill, which is, of course, about implementing EU rules on capital requirements and supervision of banks in the Faroe Islands. On 30 April, a large majority in the Faroese Laying approved this law, and on that basis the Enhedslisten will also vote in favour today. But the bill now needs a few words on the road. I have, of course, tried to warn the Faroese members of the committee in all comradeship whether it is now wise to adopt such a law here. As we see it, there are two major problems in it. One is that the relevant EU legislation will be implemented by the Minister through regulations, just as royal regulations will abolish the old rules that become superfluous. This means that, once this law has been adopted, the Greenlandic and Faroese Parliament will not have any real influence on the implementing rules in future. They are consulted and can make their views known, but they have no control, and they have no right of veto which they would be able to exercise if necessary. The second is the very principle of this draft law, where there certainly are some improvements in terms of capital requirements and supervision. However, there is also the condition that, if you have first signed this law, you will not be able to make more far-reaching demands than are apparent from the EU rules and from the regulation and the directives behind it. We therefore have the view in the Enhedslisten that the European Union's demands on the banks are no protection against a new financial crisis, and it could be thought that in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland there would be a desire to impose more stringent requirements on the banks' holdings of capital, liquidity, supervision, etc. than there are in the rules that are laid down here. Unfortunately, that option is just cut off unless you can convince the 27 EU countries, or rather 28, because you have to convince the Danish Government that the rules have to be changed, and that will be virtually impossible, given that Denmark has already adopted the same rules, which, as you know, the Enhedslisten also voted against, when we had to vote on it for Denmark. The result is that the Faroe Islands are going to hand over a very large bit of sovereignty over their financial sector to the EU without the prospect of winning it back unless one can imagine that they could pull Denmark out of the EU. So I regret that it has not succeeded in convincing the Faroese members of the committee about the problem in it, but we must of course take note that a large majority in the Faroese Laying wants this law, and then we will not stand in the way of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130710	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130718	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 112 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130754	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130815	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 93 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 18 (DF and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505130852	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505131027	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 7 May 2015. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the questioners. Claus Hjort Frederiksen from the Left, to justify the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505131118	It is a good decision that we have taken here in the Danish Parliament once a year to debate the Kingdom Community on the basis of the Prime Minister's statement. This shows and gives us the opportunity to discuss proposals of common interest to the three parties in the Kingdom Community. I also think that the experience we had with the debate last year was good, and that is why I welcome the fact that we have the institution that we are having a debate on these issues. After all, there are many challenges for the Kingdom community, and I am sure that today's debate will show a broad spectrum of problems that are of common interest to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505131215	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Prime Minister for answering the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505131225	I look forward to today's debate. The annual inquiry debate on the Kingdom Community is a tradition that testifies to the value of the Kingdom community for all of us. Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland are closely linked through our history, our culture and through people. We must be in the future too. I want a modern and flexible community of kingdoms, a community where there is room for us to be different, where we can speak openly and without prejudice about common challenges and solve them together, and where there is much more that brings us together than separates us. I stress strong cooperation in mutual respect, and the government has good and constructive cooperation with the national government in the Faroe Islands and with the national government in Greenland. I would like to thank you for that here today. The framework for our cooperation is the autonomy arrangements. Almost all important decisions about the Faroese and Greenlandic communities are taken today in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. That's what I'm talking about. And there is an opportunity to take over further competence when you want it to. Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland cooperate in a wide range of areas for the benefit of our peoples: foreign affairs, raw materials and justice. And we are working together on research, on financial matters and on the tasks that defence has to perform. We have come a long way together and we need to move on with our cooperation. The Faroe Islands and Greenland themselves are responsible for economic policy and for making the decisions that will ensure welfare in the future. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. The government fully respects that. But we are also closely following the economic development of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, because a healthy Faroese and Greenlandic economy is not only important for the people of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, it is also important for an equal kingdom community. There is a difference between the economic situation of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but both countries face major economic challenges, especially in the slightly longer term. The government is therefore also constantly discussing the economic situation with the Faroe Islands' Home Government and Greenland's Home Government, as well as the challenges that the Danish economy has been through. In Denmark we have implemented reforms to control the economy, and if the Faroe Islands and Greenland want to use our experience, we are of course ready for it. In the Faroe Islands there is economic progress and unemployment is low, but there has been a public finance deficit for several years and this has led to an increase in debt. This is happening in a situation where, otherwise, fishing and the fishing industry are doing exceptionally well and where public revenue is therefore higher than usual. At the same time, there is a prospect of increasing public expenditure pressure over the coming many years, including: There will be more elderly citizens who will need care and security. This puts the Faroe Islands in a situation where there is a great need to improve public finances. The Faroe Islands' Economic Council has calculated that there is a need to improve the budget by 750 million. kr. That's 5%. of GDP. That is the requirement to ensure a balance between revenue and expenditure in the longer term. The Faroe Islands Economic Council also considers that fiscal sustainability in the Faroe Islands can be ensured, but this depends on the political will and the political choices. Reform is needed. Greenland is challenged, both in terms of growth, employment and fiscal sustainability. We have discussed the economic situation in Greenland several times here in the Danish Parliament, most recently at the question debate on 5 February. For some years there have been great hopes for new income from Greenland's raw materials, but unfortunately they have not yet been fulfilled. Expectations have been considerably dampened in the last year, there has been a slowdown in investigations, and this has weakened the economic situation and prospects in the longer term. However, raw materials remain the industry which is best regarded as being able to secure new income for Greenland. In the important shrimp fisheries, quotas have been reduced by over 40%. Since 2011, biologists recommend that quotas should be even smaller. Fortunately, prices have risen, it is moving the other way, and there are still high incomes from shrimp fishing. Economic activity in Greenland has fallen. Many people are out of work and there are also major structural challenges in the labour market. One of the most important is the level of education. Only about half of a youth year receives a qualifying education. I know that the national government is very aware of this, because it is the young people who are going to create the future of Greenland, a Greenland with a self-sustaining economy. From the government's point of view, we are prepared to help with cooperation and advice in relation to education, if the national government so wishes. The public economy in Greenland is under pressure. There's a deficit on the Finance Act. Improvement is needed in the short term. In addition, there will be many more older citizens in the years to come. As in the Faroe Islands, it will also bring additional pressure on public finances in Greenland. The Greenland Economic Council has most recently calculated the need for budget improvements of 900 million. kr. or equivalent to 61⁄2%. of GDP. That is the demand for ensuring a balance between revenue and expenditure in the longer term. It should therefore be a good thing that the national government is working on an overall sustainability and growth plan, which will be presented this year. The themes of the plan will include: be education and welfare reforms. The chairman of the Greenland Economic Council, Professor Torben M. Andersen, has said, and I quote: If nothing is done, it only gets worse when we look forward. Now it is really high time that some initiatives were taken and some reforms implemented. Quote out. The government has offered to cooperate and help with the administrative in relation to reforms and proposals that the national government is planning to implement. The National Government has agreed to a cooperation on a Greenlandic budget law, where we on the Danish side are happy to contribute with our experience. The case of a new service provider at Thulebasen has received great attention both in Greenland and here in Denmark. It is an important matter, and it is the clear position of the government that Thulebasen should continue to benefit Greenland as much as possible. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the government, is currently negotiating a solution with the United States and, as I understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the negotiations are on a constructive path. The Faroe Islands and Greenland have increased their international commitment in recent years. The Faroe Islands have entered into a dialogue with the EU on stronger and wider cooperation in the economic and trade policy field, and the government is, of course, ready to help the Faroe Islands with this. Greenland is also heading for wider cooperation with the EU. In March, the President of the Government, the President of the European Commission and myself signed a joint declaration on Greenland's partnership with the European Union. That is an important statement. It sends a strong signal that we want to extend and strengthen our cooperation, for example. in the fields of raw materials, climate and energy, research and tourism. The partnership with the European Union also provides for the continuation of annual budget support of more than 200 million. kr. to the training courses in Greenland. Sealskin is another area where Greenland and Denmark have a close cooperation on Greenland's interests in the EU. The marketing of Greenlandic sealskins is seriously affected by negative campaigns against sealcatching, and the government has therefore, together with the national government, worked internationally to ensure Greenland's seal catch as a sustainable and entirely legitimate profession. We have made it clear in the European Union that the Commission must inform and eradicate misunderstandings about the EU's import ban and the Inuit exemption. Last year, the WTO agreed that the EU's Inuit exemption may be allowed if certain specific conditions are met. The EU seal regulation must now be amended to meet those conditions. We have a very close Danish-Greenland cooperation to look after Greenland's interests in the current negotiations. We have a modern, vibrant and equal kingdom community based on self-determination, and our cooperation is central, both within the Kingdom community and in relation to the rest of the world. We have a strong community of which I am proud and which we must stick to and develop. When we add up our powers, we can do more. The Kingdom community makes us all bigger. I look forward to a good and constructive debate here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505132322	Thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the question. We shall now proceed to the debate, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Claus Hjort Frederiksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505132347	On April 9, 1940, Denmark was occupied when German troops crossed the Danish border early in the morning. Few places, and some would say too few places, met opposition. In just a few hours, the Danes lost their freedom. The occupation also had consequences for the Kingdom community. During the five fucking years, Denmark lost its connection with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But today, May 5, we celebrate liberation, and with it followed a reunited Kingdom community, which has happily been united ever since. I think we should also celebrate that here in Parliament today. During World War II, the Kingdom community became part of the great powers' games, and we can do so again very easily, especially in the Arctic. Following ratification of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Kingdom has claimed a number of areas related to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, including an area of 895,000 km2 north of Greenland bordering Russia, which partially overlaps with the Russian requirements. I hope and expect, of course, that the decision that may come from the Commission on the Continental Shelf will be respected by all parties, and so far there has been no sign of the opposite either. However, it must be made clear that the Danish demand could potentially create great tensions in relation to a country whose recent behaviour in Ukraine has demonstrated the will to use methods that we others thought had long since been left behind. For me, there is no doubt that an overall strong empire community will have greater weight in defending the interests of the kingdom towards other nations than three isolated individual parts, and that is why the conflict potential, which can only increase as the opportunities for navigation and extraction of raw materials increase, has significantly increased the need for a strengthened dialogue within the Kingdom community on its own and common strategic interests in the Arctic region. Fortunately, everyday life in the Kingdom is characterized by much more than considerations of the ambitions of the great powers, and common to all three parts of the realm is a focus on a healthy economy where Greenland and the Faroe Islands, like Denmark, have their own business to attend to. According to the Faroe Islands' Economic Council, the Faroe Islands, as the Prime Minister also mentioned, need reforms for 750 million. kr., while Greenland needs reforms for up to 900 million. kr., if one is to avoid a very large debt. In relation to the size of the Greenlandic and Faroese economies, the amount is quite violent. Thus there is a significant need for reform, which is also more comprehensive than the need which has led to a number of reforms in Denmark in recent years. It is not sustainable with a continuous increase in indebtedness, which risks weakening real self-determination both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, because a society's freedom of action is and remains inextricably linked to its economic capacity. I and the Left want a continued strong kingdom community as an equal partnership with cooperation and a very extensive degree of autonomy for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is also a desire that the Faroe Islands and Greenland remain part of the Kingdom Community. There are some who want independence, and I respect that too, of course, but in my view it would be a mistake if that wish were to open the door to strengthened cooperation which can help to create a better foundation and a more solid economy. I am therefore pleased to note that Greenland's autonomy is considering increasing the use of technical assistance from the Ministry of Finance. I must of course stress that it must also be possible if the Faroe Islands want the same thing. It is also against this background that I welcome the fact that there seems to be a greater willingness to cooperate more closely in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland from all parties in the Kingdom Community and like us, for example. so from virtually all sides in the Greenlandic elections that took place in November. A very large part of the economy in Greenland and the Faroe Islands is based on natural resources, including, of course, primarily fisheries. It is no secret that it has caused conflict with the European Union in the past, but I welcome the fact that the worst disputes seem to be settled in this instance. Traditional seal catches are also an important source of employment for Greenland. Over the last 20 years, there has been a totally unsavory but unfortunately very effective campaign which, if you wear sealskins, is actually proclaimed as an animal abuser. This has undoubtedly helped to dampen demand and, in addition, questions are now being raised about the inuit exemption after the WTO has taken a decision that violates the current rule of the EU seal regulation and that, therefore, a process has begun to review the derogation. I am sure that both the Danish Members of the European Parliament and the government are doing their part to ensure as good a livelihood as possible, thus ensuring Greenlandic sealskin free access to the European Union. However, we must also recognise that the seal regulation itself as such is an expression of the fact that in Europe the perception of seal catches is very negative. Then it cannot be ruled out that the models of the time are involved, and therefore it is a good idea that more attention should now be paid to exports to other markets which have not swallowed the anti-seal propaganda to the same extent. Greenlanders, cousins and Danes are Danish citizens, and all Danes must be able to move freely throughout the kingdom community. Following the adoption of motion for a resolution B 34 last year, the government has begun to identify and combat the so-called border barriers, and there is good reason for this. We cannot be aware that young people in Thorshavn and Nuuk do not have as easy access to an education in Copenhagen as those in Thisted and Næstved. And, of course, it can't be right that you can't buy a car because you don't have NemID. Once the government completes the work, no matter what government it is, the Left will of course be extremely constructive, because administrative barriers between the different parts of the empire must not succeed in breaking down the kingdom's community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133137	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133139	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, the rapporteur spoke a great deal about the reforms that Greenland, in the rapporteur's view, must introduce. Does the rapporteur think that it is a good idea for them in Greenland to carry out the same kind of reforms that have been implemented here in Denmark for the last 3-4 years? These are reforms which have severely affected the unemployed, the sick and people with disabilities and others who have reduced their ability to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133208	It is not for me to decide which reforms are to be implemented in Greenland. It is the Greenlandic parties and politicians who have to make that decision. What is crucial to me is, of course, when we look at the scale of the problem, and when we know how difficult it has been in Denmark to carry out reforms... it does not happen without sword strikes... just to say that the challenge Greenland faces where it is 6.5 per cent. It is a very, very important task to be won into the economy. But it is Greenland's responsibility, and it is Greenland's politicians who have to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133251	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133253	Thank you. I'm so comfortable that it's not sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, who is to solve Greenland's problems. But now the rapporteur was very concerned to talk about these reforms and to recommend to Greenland that reforms should be carried out, and it could be that the rapporteur has also thought about what reforms would be like. But I understand the rapporteur does not have that, or can I take it as an indication that the rapporteur will not deny that it may be a good idea for Greenland to make the same kind of reforms as those we have had here in Denmark and that I described just now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133324	I think sir... Finn Sørensen must take it as an indication that a country that has order in its economy is considerably better equipped in this world than a country that is dependent on lenders everywhere else. That is why, when you have a desire for independence in Greenland, you have to face up to the challenges, including the economic ones, because that is the reality of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133358	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505133404	Thank you. The Socialists think that the tradition we have of holding an annual debate on questions and statements here in the Parliamentary Assembly on the Kingdom Community is a very, very good idea. Our kingdom community is unique, and we Social Democrats consider it to be very valuable. Our three countries in the Kingdom community are woven together through our common history, culture and language for many, many years. And not least, then, we are closely connected in the kingdom community through the people who live in the three countries of which the kingdom is made up. Think of the many young people who come from the Faroe Islands and Greenland to Denmark to study, or the many Danes who go to Greenland and the Faroe Islands to work. They're helping to bring us closer together. They contribute to enriching us with common and different cultures and experiences from the three different parts of the kingdom community and kingdom. At the same time, there are very large differences between countries, and therefore it cannot be clearly stated that each country is very unique and that countries cannot tolerate comparison. But that is also why we have so much to offer separately. Differences make strong, they say in general. A diverse community of kingdoms therefore also means that we will be considerably stronger both externally and internally. That is why we Social Democrats believe that we must safeguard the Kingdom community, just as we must help to develop the Kingdom community and ensure an equal community. Economics: Both Greenland and the Faroe Islands face economic challenges, as the Prime Minister has explained more in detail. There are challenges in relation to a structural deficit in the budget, ageing population, low growth rates, especially for Greenland and an unemployment problem, also particularly for Greenland. On the other hand, the Faroe Islands, as we have also discussed in this Chamber in the past, have a challenge in relation to relocation, and they also have a challenge in relation to the fact that very many Faroe Islands work outside the Faroe Islands and thus do not pay as much tax to the Faroese economy as you would like. Our cooperation is based on the law of self-government and the law of home government and the division of powers that lies in these laws. The self-government is therefore responsible for economic policy, including implementing the necessary reforms to secure new revenue. From the Danish side we are of course also interested in a healthy economy in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is only good for all parties and also for the Kingdom community. I would therefore also like to express my satisfaction that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland have objectives to balance the economy and spend a great deal of energy on it in their political work. Furthermore, I am also satisfied that the Danish Government will offer advice and administrative assistance in relation to the economic situation, if desired by Greenland and the Faroe Islands, as well as it is positive that the established Danish-Greenland working group published a report earlier this year on the promotion of commercial business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. The report recommends that the new revenue to be secured should be largely derived from the raw materials sector and the tourist industry. I agree with that. This is where the great potentials lie. Last time I was in the Faroe Islands, we also discussed the possibility of an increased tourist promotion in the Faroe Islands, and it was said that the Faroe Islands, despite being unable to change climatic conditions, would like to make the tourist season somewhat longer. Another issue that we have discussed here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which is extremely important and which the Prime Minister has also mentioned, is that any border barriers have been highlighted both within the Kingdom Community and also within the Nordic Region. It is important that we focus on the barriers and obstacles that may exist because we want to increase the mobility of citizens and businesses. The working group is finishing its work here during 2015 and it will be exciting to seize the challenge from there. In relation to Greenland, there is one thing that affects and influences us Social Democrats very much, and that is the challenge that lies in relation to vulnerable Greenlanders. It is not nice to read an article in Information on April 12, 2015 under the heading: There is no prestige in being Greenlander. It is an article that explains what it's like to come from Greenland and be socially exposed and come to Denmark and experience the problems and challenges that are coming to another part of the Kingdom community with the problems you might have with you from Greenland. I know that the socially vulnerable Greenlanders form a smaller part of the total number of Greenlanders in Denmark, but it is extremely important that we focus on those who have particular challenges and problems. The government has strengthened the initiatives for the vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. We have done so, among other things. in the 2013 Rate Pool Agreement, where we set aside just over EUR 13 million. kr. over a four-year period to a strategy for action precisely in relation to vulnerable Greenlanders and their children in Denmark. The strategy must also ensure better inclusion of socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark and, in the long term, help reduce the number. In addition, we have increased the permanent funding for the Greenlandic houses so that the social projects of the houses can continue in the long term as well. In the past, as both Greenland and Faroeian rapporteurs from the platform, I have said that I believe we have a particular challenge in terms of getting children and young people within the Kingdom community to have a better knowledge of all three parties within the Kingdom Community and in other words that children and young people gain knowledge and understanding of the Kingdom community, but also the differences. This helps to keep the Kingdom community alive, including for future generations, and I am pleased that initiatives have now been taken, including those on the ground. on the teaching portal emu.dk, and that special thematic pages have been established there, including: pages of educational courses and materials about the Kingdom, about the Faroe Islands and about Greenland, and the reform of the primary school has been built into elements to improve knowledge of the Kingdom Community. In fact, it is important that we ensure that the citizens who move across the three parts of the Community are understood and that there you meet a people who have an enlightened basis on the place you come from. I will conclude by mentioning a few topical matters. A few weeks ago I was in Brussels with a group of Danish MPs and Greenlandic MPs. We were down to talk to the Commission and parliamentarians about banning the export of sealskins and the Inuit exemption. As the Prime Minister and also the rapporteur of the Left have said, we are in a very difficult situation here, but I can tell you that all the good forces are being gathered in this matter and that we were met with a very great understanding, including from the Commissioner's office. I can do nothing but hope that we will achieve the objective of ensuring that exports of sustainable Greenland seal skins are high on the agenda and are profiled in the context that the sealskins deserve and that there will be a market that has its eyes open to them. The second point I would like to mention, as the Prime Minister has also mentioned, is the difficult situation in relation to the service contract of Thule Air Base, but there I hope that the negotiations that are taking place in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also result in a good outcome. From the Socialist point of view, I would like to appeal to the Bureau to try to consider whether, in relation to the Faroe Islands, we could perhaps consider taking it up in the same way as we do with Greenland, so that orientation trips could be made here from the Folketing. I have been met by several of my party colleagues here in the parliamentary group who have never been to the Faroe Islands and who have said to me, as rapporteur for the Faroe Islands, that it can indeed be a little difficult for them to enter into the discussion and debate because they do not have a thorough knowledge of it. I know, and this is what has been announced to me by many of my group colleagues, that the orientation trips to Greenland have greatly helped to create a common understanding of the Kingdom community for which we are also responsible here from the platform. I shall read out a draft text for adoption, a text for adoption supported by the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance, the Samband group, Siumut, the Radical Left and the Social Democrats. The text reads as follows: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom of Denmark 2015. The Danish Parliament expresses great satisfaction at the Kingdom Community and stresses the need for an ongoing dialogue on opportunities and challenges in the Kingdom Community. Good dialogue is the prerequisite for equal and respectful cooperation between the parties to the Kingdom. In order to continue to promote the development of the Kingdom Community, the Danish Parliament calls for cooperation between the government and the national leaders of the Faroe Islands and Greenland to be strengthened. The Danish Parliament notes that the Faroe Islands and Greenland face economic challenges, among others. in terms of ensuring fiscal sustainability. The Danish Parliament invites the Government to keep itself informed of the economic situation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland and to offer cooperation and administrative assistance within the framework and within the framework of the Home Rule and Self-Government Schemes, if the Home Government of the Faroe Islands and the Naalaksuisut so wish. The Danish Parliament recognises the usefulness of an annual inquiry debate in the Danish Parliament, where the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community can be debated together and without prejudice. • V 47).
ParlaMint-DK_20150505134518	That's what Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen read out proposals on behalf of seven parties are part of the further negotiations. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505134544	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement, which contains a great deal of useful information on the status of the Kingdom Community. In the following I will speak less about the Faroe Islands and much about Greenland, which reflects that it is the relationship between Greenland and Denmark that has caused difficulties and caused problems in recent years. Let me start my speech with this conclusion: Greenland has no possible future as an independent state. Greenland's necessary future and existence, on the other hand, lies alone in a much closer community with the Faroe Islands and Denmark. This will certainly be a very difficult realization for many, but it is an absolutely necessary realization if Greenland is to get through the problems and move on. For far too long Greenlandic politicians have wasted precious time on this fruitless, unrealistic talk of independence, by the way well assisted by very smiling Danish politicians, who probably tremble for fear of being colonial. So crippling and so all-dominant have the dreams been that the incredibly small Greenlandic community's tons of serious problems have been overridden over and over again. There have been virtually no school forms, business reforms, labour market reforms, social reforms, infrastructure reforms, health reforms, tourism reforms or economic reforms. On the other hand, among many Greenlandic politicians, there is an endless clapping of the shoulders and an endless joint assurance that we are working towards independence, which, moreover, we are not doing at all, because we are not dealing at all with finding answers to the economic and social problems and solving the basic everyday problems of the country and the people. But all of it is under the heading: Once the raw material billions start rolling into the country, all you have to see is everybody. So intoxicated by the prospect of these ten flapping birds on the roof, a leading politician remarked grandly: Just wait until the day when Denmark needs block grants from Greenland. Very funny. The sad thing is that the person in question actually meant it. Thus, among leading Greenlandic politicians year after year, perfection has trained the ability to avoid facing reality. They're coming, the billions, we just need to get this drill license signed; we just need to get this big scale law passed; we just need to talk to another oil company. Then you'll see, we'll be rich. This dreamy talk must and must now cease, for year by year Greenland moves further and further away from the real world and appears in these times as a country on a swirling slide into economic, social and cultural decay. For each of us many Danes and cousins who feel from the heart like the Greenlanders' compatriots, it is a great pain to follow where the country is going. What was it that led Greenlandic politicians to seriously imagine that a microscopicly small population in numbers like Vordingborg Municipality would be thinly spread over a vast area could be able to exist as an independent country, act as an independent country, i.e. a country that conducts its own foreign policy with embassies, diplomatic relations with other countries and, on its own, administer justice, the exercise of authority, emergency, defence and security tasks? What was it that led Greenland's politicians to imagine that Greenland, as an independent state, would be able, on its own, to administer the law enforcement of a democratic welfare society, including the establishment and running of courts, the establishment and running of educational institutions capable of providing medium- and higher education, and the establishment and operation of a fully-fledged social and health care system? It should be clear to everyone that no similar microscopic small population, wherever it is in the world, will be able to carry out this enormous task with such extensive and demanding tasks in a way that will naturally be required in a modern Western world and with the challenges naturally posed by the modern Western world. Thus, the creation of a Greenlandic state serves neither the interests of the Greenlandic people now nor of the century we have begun. Finally, I would like to say that this is by far the most important thing for me that there is so much that binds Danes and Greenlanders together historically, emotionally, family-wise, that for both sides, after hundreds of years of close cohesion, it will be a historic disaster to break the ties between the compatriots that we rightly are. It should be mentioned in this connection that some Greenlandic politicians, with little sense of history and tradition in recent years, have succeeded in erecting artificial barriers between what is Greenlandic and what is Danish by means of unreasonable verbal attacks on Denmark and the Danish people. It is a barrier which does not in general reflect Greenlandic minds and souls and which, fortunately, has not yet been heard in the solid majority of the Greenlandic people. Here is the love for Denmark, for the Danish people and the royal house and thus for the kingdom community unabated. Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark should strengthen this unique community rather than dismantle it, so that our economies and our reforms together lead us safely into the future. We therefore have a unique community built on history, on trust, on tradition and, therefore, on the crucial fact that we are and become compatriots. I shall, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, unfortunately no one else thought that they would agree to make the following proposals for adoption: The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement, as the Danish Parliament calls on the government to set up a joint commission for Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which will be responsible for making proposals on how to strengthen the Kingdom community in all areas with the aim of creating a common security for future generations. • V 48). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135229	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten for a short comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135232	Thank you. The rapporteur was, of course, busy trying to reach out to politicians and everyone but himself, I think, who, in the rapporteur's view, just speaks the Greenlanders for fear of appearing as colonial masters. I understand from the rapporteur that that fear is not a burden on the rapporteur. At best colonial lords he will explain to the Greenlanders how things are connected and that all they have to do is give up their dream of independence. The point of view does not surprise me, although I must say that it is expressed with a sharpness and an aggressiveness which I have not heard from this gentleman for a long time. My question is simply whether the rapporteur respects the applicable self-government law, whether he respects the principle enshrined in the law and also expressed by the Prime Minister in his statement, namely that the Faroe Islands and Greenland can have autonomy if they so wish. Does the rapporteur respect the law and principle, or does the rapporteur's proposal for a Commission propose that it should result in a change in the law on self-government, so that the right to independence which lies in it is removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135355	First I want to say: No, there was no criticism of myself that is quite right heard. Now I don't know how often Mr. Finn Sørensen has been on the platform to criticize himself; I do not actually have any figures on that, but it must be a lot of times since it is mentioned in this way. I would like to say about the Self-Government Act that I respect it to the extent that it is a law in Denmark. I respect the laws of the country. However, I would remind you that the Danish People's Party as the only party voted against the Self-Government Act, but that is why I respect the Self-Government Act. It is as it is now, but it could be wonderful to have it changed into something better, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135428	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135429	Thank you. Yeah, and that's exactly why I asked. For what is the purpose of the Commission's work that the Danish People's Party would like to undertake? Is it to change the self-government law to remove the right that Greenland has, the right to independence, if they so wish? Is that the purpose of the Commission's work, that is to remove Greenland's right to independence and also the Faroe Islands' right to independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135459	No, it was not one of the things that we opposed. In fact, I think it is a good thing that it is included in the self-government law. We voted against the Self-Government Act on the basis of the economic aspects of the distribution of raw materials revenue which we considered to be totally unfair to Denmark. That is what we criticised. The second point I have not so much against is there, and we would like to continue with it. I do not believe that the people of the Faroe Islands or Greenland will ever get involved in it, and that is also why I find it so grotesque that Greenland politicians in particular are incredibly busy talking about it instead of dealing with some of the important things, namely getting their own country and their own economy in order. In other words, that you are right, I really do not object to the fact that I do not think it will ever be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135545	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135549	Thank you. I have said this to the rapporteur before, and I can repeat it: I think it is liberating and refreshing that he is completely honest and has no fear of touch when he talks about the Commonwealth, because sometimes there is a great deal of anxiety about these issues. However, when the rapporteur says that it is out of the question that a Greenlandic state can be formed, because 50 000 people cannot carry out justice policy, defence policy, foreign policy, etc., that is not right. One can easily have a state formation and yet give away competences, as one does in the European Union. After all, we have San Marino, Liechtenstein and Andorra, which are very small nations, which have a formal state formation, but which form part of another community as a state. So that very premise is wrong. Greenland can of course be a state and form part of a community other than the Kingdom. There was just one piece of information.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135652	While we were in the process of drafting the Self-Government Act, and while the Commission was working, there were plenty of things that came on the table in that regard. I can, for example. Remember that Cook Islands was mentioned as an example of how it might happen. It was something that was highlighted by Greenland. There are all kinds of constellations. I just think it is important to say here that as soon as Greenland becomes an independent state, Greenland will be absorbed by the United States within four and a half minutes. That is the case and, indirectly, the changing American ambassador has not concealed that fact either. You are incredibly concerned about what is going on in Greenland • much more than you really should be and that is because it becomes part of the American sphere of interest. So that is what I am saying: what is best for Greenland's interests? You can ask yourself that. I have no doubt about what the Greenlandic people would answer if they were given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135748	Then it's mr. Johan Lund Olsen from IA for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135753	Thank you. Of course, I noticed the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's statement and claims that Greenland has no possibility of becoming an independent state and thus a period of time. But I'll remind you, sir. Mr Søren Espersen says that this is an opportunity which we have debated very thoroughly in the Self-Government Commission, as Mr. Søren Espersen himself was a member of, and of which I was also a member, and we have been given it in section 21 of the Self-Government Act, where it says black and white: "Decision on Greenland's independence is taken by the Greenlandic people. Well, that's very clear. However, it is not surprising that such a statement should come from the Danish People's Party, precisely because, as the rapporteur himself said, they were opposed to the self-government law when it had to be voted through here in the Folketing. However, I would just like to remind you that it was a very, very large majority in the Danish Parliament, with the exception of the Danish People's Party, who also supported this paragraph that Greenland naturally has the opportunity to declare itself independent when Greenland itself decides to do so through a referendum. I would also like to remind you that a very large majority in Greenland is 76 per cent. of the electorate, of course, has just voted on this paragraph on Greenland's access to independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135923	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505135929	Yes, but we have just mentioned that in relation to the question, Mr. Finn Sørensen asked. I accept that the law of self-government is the way it is, although I would like it to be changed. But it says that it is a choice that the Greenlanders have if that time comes. My appeal today has nothing to do with all that. It is an appeal to spend time on something sensible. When you read the Greenland post or Sermitsiaq or the other newspapers, you can see that it takes up all the space. This is a completely fruitless discussion. Get started, Greenland, by doing something that is sensible and pragmatic. Get some reforms done and let's see what you can do instead of having these endless dreams that fill all these newspaper pages. Start becoming self-employed if that's what you want, but don't talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140014	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Doris Jakobsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140022	My party, Siumuts, is always seeking independence in the future, and I do not think it is unrealistic either. So I'm very interested in hearing something. Sir. Søren Espersen knows the rights and opportunities for independence under the UN, for example. for Greenland. There are three different options according to the United Nations. One of the models is called free association, which means that we can have independence if the Greenlanders want it, and that we can work with some other countries in terms of, for example, defence or other areas when we need it. So Siumut's purpose is to gain independence in the future with free association. This means that we can cooperate with Denmark if Denmark will also cooperate with us. That is why I believe that this is not unrealistic, and that is why I also call on the government and future members of parliament after the elections to investigate free association.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140136	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140140	I know what Siumut's purpose is, and that is what worries me, namely that Siumut's aim is not to solve Greenland's problems, that, when you have government power, you do not embark on tourism reforms, educational reforms, industrial reforms and labour market reforms and get the economy in order. That should be Siumut's crucial task, but it is not. This is a dreamy talk about independence, which Mrs Doris Jakobsen is also very much contributing to with her speeches in Sermitsiaq and the Greenland Post. As I said before, my appeal is: get on with politics and let's see what Siumut can do. You've been in power for 30-40 years. Why don't you get started on solving Greenland's problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140218	Mrs. Doris Jakobsen, Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140222	Søren Espersen is very welcome to read our visions and political objectives. It says about our visions and goals for a better Greenland. I also know that we had the power of government for over 30 years, and we have created a lot of development in Greenland, and the rapporteur cannot just ignore that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140254	Well, I've read Siumut's visions. I am following what is happening in Greenland a little bit, and I do not see any very realistic, pragmatic things about what to do. It's talk. Most of what lies on the part of the Siumut government is talk, and my call today is to get on with politics. I would like to send it to Mrs Doris Jakobsen when she next goes home to Greenland. My call is actually: let us get on with reforming and starting to make Greenland's economy and society something that can work for itself. Then it may be that in 75 or 100 years' time it will be possible to become an independent state, but that requires order in its own country, and Siumut has not been able to create that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140340	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from the Socialists for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140344	Thank you. When I try to recall what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has said in previous debates and with what emphasis it has come to, I think there was a sharpening of the tone until today, probably honestly, but in my ears too, very confrontational. I would like to ask the rapporteur in relation to the proposal to set up a Commission, whether the Danish People's Party has considered that this is something that we should also hear the Greenlandic politicians about, or whether it is just something that the Danish People's Party thinks we should do unilaterally on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140425	No, I think we should find out at the next Kingdom meeting and set up such a commission. I think that would be a good idea. I have no particular desire to do it alone, as opposed to for example. The Greenlanders who set up a Commission of Reconciliation without asking anyone else about it. I'd like to go the right way and ask the Prime Minister to take it to the next Kingdom meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140445	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140447	I don't think that's surprising, sir. Søren Espersen, that it is certainly not something that we Social Democrats immediately support, and I would say that, as it was presented here today in the Danish People's Party's proposal for a text, I did not hear that it was something that was supposed to be a dialogue and a respectful cooperation on. It was perceived by me as a question that Dansk Folkeparti will himself and think that this is the way to go from Danish side. I have said in previous debates that, as the legislation currently stands, we want to show respect, but of course we also want to have a clear speech in relation to what the challenges are. And that is why I think that the government has sent the right signal to the Greenland Government and to the national government up there that we are very happy to help, but that it must be based on a respectful dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140542	But what is so superior: a respectful dialogue. And then they say, we're gonna come and help you. Can the rapporteur not see for himself how patronising he is in dealings with Greenland and the people of Greenland when he says: we will come and help? What are those abilities, sir? Flemming Møller Mortensen has to do something that the Greenland Government cannot get started on its own if they take action? It's patronizing beyond all bounds. That's colonial, so I've hardly ever heard anything like it. Yes, this is an increase on my part, because frankly I think that Greenlandic society is facing problems up to its necks and nothing of value is being done by the Siumut government. That is what annoys me, and that is what frustrates me, and that is why I have tightened up the rhetoric. That is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140624	There are no further comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505140638	Thank you. After all, it's your business to come here to see Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen. I must be seen as another small, smiling fear politician who dares not face up to reality. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it was quite a declaration of love that I heard Mr. Søren Espersen joins Greenland, but it was something special, I think, and I don't like the tone either. But, on the other hand, I would like to welcome the fact that we are going to debate the Kingdom community here and that it has become an annual tradition that I can now enter into. The Community of Kingdoms means a great deal to us in the Radical Left. We believe that three equal countries together are larger than each country individually, i.e. that the Kingdom is a force in a global world. We believe that there is more in our common history that binds us together than there are things that separate us. The Radical Left emphasizes that the Commonwealth is based on an equal, respectful and unbiased attitude towards the others. Equality and respect are sizes that don't come by themselves. These are values that need to be cared for, developed and challenged all the time. These are values that must be adapted to the time in which we live at all times. The Kingdom is a unique size. It is important to realise that the cohesion between our three countries is something that must be supported and strengthened and is not something that exists on its own. This is the challenge we face in the Kingdom Community that we have a common history behind us, but that we continue to focus on ensuring that the aspects of the past that we are not so proud of do not stand in the way of looking forward to a common future, a future that improves and develops both the kingdom as a whole and each country separately and gives us opportunities when we move around and settle elsewhere and establish a life in one of the other countries. The Radical Left is therefore pleased that a strategy has been developed for action against the group of native Greenlanders who have ended up in a socially vulnerable situation and that efforts are being made to allocate additional funds in 2015 and 2016 to strengthen the work on the inclusion of new Greenlanders in Denmark. The Greenlandic Houses, which are in Denmark, have e.g.: increased their appropriations for 2014 and beyond, which is also welcome, because we know that the money will benefit now that a number of the social projects under the Greenland Houses can be continued. It is the wish of the Radical Left that the strategy towards vulnerable Greenlanders should be constantly evaluated and that the efforts that work should be disseminated to inspiration for the other municipalities in the country. I am also a church rapporteur and, as a church rapporteur, it is very gratifying that a Greenlandic priest has been secured for the native Greenlanders who want church services in their own language and that there is still a dialogue with the church minister about further steps to improve the church service of the native Greenlanders. In addition to the efforts mentioned by the Prime Minister in his statement on teaching about the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the Danish schools, Radical Left considers it desirable to look at how Danish children and young people and adults can gain more knowledge about the modern Faroese and Greenlandic communities as well as their culture and language and history. Measures with increased focus on knowledge about the Kingdom Community could increase interest in the Kingdom community in general and increase the cohesion between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark for mutual benefit and joy. Increased knowledge will also help to eradicate prejudices and misunderstandings that can get in the way of the future development of the Kingdom community. Something that the Radical Left is very happy about is the new agreement between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, which gives the Faroe Islands the right to export daily allowances for 3 months when moving between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. We are also proud of the creation of the Forum for Arctic Research, which among other things. has used effort to strengthen the logistical cooperation between Greenlandic, Faroese and Danish research institutions. We await the Forum's first annual report with recommendations for the Arctic research of the Kingdom Community. Another resolution that we welcome is the construction of a new closed facility at Nuuk. We find it much better that Greenlanders who have to be punished can serve in Greenland instead of going to Denmark and feeling in more up-to-date and human conditions. All three parties in the Kingdom Community are facing challenges now and here: low economic growth, challenges in terms of employment rate, large relocation and urbanisation, rising expenditure and falling income. Denmark has taken a number of steps to solve our problems and, through our many reforms, we have turned the situation around for the better. Greenland and the Faroe Islands also need to take the necessary steps to ensure fiscally sustainable development in the future. We have previously debated the economic situation in Greenland in this Chamber, and the Radical Left, in respect of self-government, recognises that it is Greenland itself that has to solve the problems. The same applies to the Faroe Islands with their challenges. However, the Radical Left also sees major challenges in the future, with which all parties must be at the forefront. The interest in the Arctic is increasing, the Northwest Passage will be opened for international sailing, and monitoring of difficult areas calls for more and better preparedness. uranium has been found in Greenland, which also calls for increased attention. Business development, especially in Greenland, where fishing is under pressure, requires new measures, for example: tourism and mining. Unemployment and the administration of the area of foreigners in Denmark have placed on the agenda both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and therefore it also focuses on our relationship, i.e. Denmark's relationship, in relation to Schengen. Another challenge specifically for Greenland is the European Commission's proposal • it has also been mentioned here earlier • amending the regulation on trade in seal products, which will harm the Greenlandic population, in particular the possibility of self-preservation of Greenlandic prisoners, further. In this connection, we were in fact in Brussels, the Folketing and the Inatsisartut, to discuss the matter with the Commission and Parliament, and we managed, by common help, to focus further on the matter in addition to the measures already taken by the government. We have among other things. focussed on the possibility of having an information campaign carried out in the EU to tell about the legal nature of buying seal skins products from sustainable catches in Greenland. In general, there is a great deal of focus on standing together when it comes to, among other things. promote international trade cooperation and strengthen Greenland and the Faroe Islands' quota requests for whaling and fish. In all the challenges mentioned, dialogue, mutual sparring and development between our three countries and our knowledge of each other are the way forward to new exciting and necessary solutions which can be of benefit to all of us. Hopefully, the debate here will reflect that we want each other the best, and at the same time show that because we are all faced with many of the same social challenges now and in the years to come, we can also help each other. I am very proud of our Kingdom community, and I appreciate our Kingdom community, and I give priority to our Kingdom community. The Radical Left agrees with the text of the adoption as it stands and as it was read by Flemming Møller Mortensen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505141333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505141344	Thank you for that, and also thank you from me for allowing us to discuss our Kingdom community and that we now have a tradition of doing this once a year and therefore of course can also hold up some of the discussions that have taken place in the past. Now that Kalaallit Nunaat means Greenland, I think we should talk about it with great respect. It is also our common responsibility that it is not only an expression of the past or an unattainable desire for the future, but Greenland is the Greenlandic country, just as the Faroe Islands are the land of the Faroe Islands. Denmark is also part of Greenland and the Faroe Islands through the Kingdom Community. That is where we are together and it is a very valuable community. Unfortunately, I believe that many Greenlanders and Faroe Islands do not feel that Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark are part of an equal partnership and community. Although it sounds banal, the kingdom community is a community, and in communities everyone has an equal voice, and no one should feel or experience inferiority. I want us in the Folketing and in the government to hold self-government with one hand and at the same time commit ourselves to close and loyal cooperation, in which we say that what binds us together is our culture, is our history, and that is the different geography which, of course, also helps to form the people who live there, so a community of kingdoms based on respect for diversity. Denmark is not to be an authoritarian patriarch, who is to raise and manage neither Greenland nor the Faroe Islands with a hard hand. Denmark needs Greenland and the Faroe Islands, just as they need Denmark. Among other things: All three countries play a very important role, not only in the Kingdom community, but also in relation to the Arctic and the whole development there. The whole security policy is a major and serious agenda. After all, we all know that the East-West passage is central. It has also made it possible with the environmental changes that exist, with the climate change that is going to make it possible with extra passage through both the Chinese side and from Russia a larger part of the year. What is needed, not only in relation to the Arctic and the passage there, but in order to develop the kingdom community, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, into a modern kingdom community, is skilled labour. Knowledge is needed and the resources that are available need to be used. I just want to give two examples and at the same time thank you for the hospitality that I and SF are always met with when we visit either Greenland or the Faroe Islands. One example is that we were with the Greenland Committee visiting a small island called Hunde Ejland. I got there and thought it might be a little impoverished. It takes half an hour to sail to Aasiaat. I thought it might be a long way to the mainland. What does that have to offer? What we are dealing with are some very resourceful people who, as such, do not make great demands, but have an offer to offer. Among other things: they say: We have heard that there are too many children in Greenland who do not thrive and who have a poor upbringing. We're actually such a good community here at Dog Ejland. Could we not be such a place where children who need something extra could be? I think this is a good example of the fact that Greenland itself points out that there may be some problems, are available and actually both human, but also in relation to the settlement structure there is, in fact, open up some opportunities. I met the same thing in the Faroe Islands when I was there. They say from the Faroese side: We have some challenges with e.g.. telemedicine, because we live so scattered on these islands. We couldn't work together, where we could work together. With regard to modern technology, the experience we have also uses to develop the whole of telecommunications, which, of course, we all need, including when it comes to health. So what we can do, and what we should do, is to ensure that Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark do not move in different directions. It is in the common interest that we should locate the problems that must exist, the opportunities that exist and that, in the spirit of cooperation between the Kingdom Community, we should work together to find solutions to the social and economic problems which exist and which could continue to exist. Then what is there to build on? From my side, I think there is a lot to build on, among other things. the natural raw materials available. It is a great opportunity to work on sustainability, and several people here from the platform have also mentioned the challenges that are being worked on under the auspices of the European Union, with among others. seal catch. This is exactly where we can stand together and in fact each carry on that agenda for the benefit of Greenland and also for the benefit of greater knowledge, not only of Europe, but of the whole world, of the resources under the auspices of the Kingdom Community. And then all of this has to be in place if you're going to hope that there can be new revenue. If there is to be a question of getting better commercial matters to work together, there are some completely elementary organisations that need to be in place, and we can work together on that too. The basics may sound banal, but it may be true that the cooperation in the Kingdom community must be based on trust, and then it must be based on concrete cooperation. For example: is one of the things we could do, to put on the agenda, that many in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, who come to Denmark, really have challenges with the language. You can get to Denmark, go to education, but have problems with being Danish enough or being English enough. It is When others come to Denmark, they have better opportunities to get the language help that is needed. I think we could also go together here and say that this could be an area we wanted to strengthen. Another challenge is that there may be young people travelling from the Faroe Islands and Greenland and to Denmark, they embark on education, start a family, maybe get divorced, or maybe it turned out that there weren't the work opportunities they had thought, and then they can find themselves in a situation where they want to return home. Today it is the case that you can get help with a plane ticket, but that is the smallest part of it. I would like us to have a concrete cooperation in which we looked at what really needs to be done in order to move home. Is it helping housing, to work, to make contact with families? In any case, we must address the specific challenges that exist, so that Greenlandic and Faroese also have their freedom to be mobile and to move to something that we also celebrate in Denmark. Several have also mentioned the service contract in relation to Thule, and it is also my call that we gather our strength in a forward-looking process. The contract is still under negotiation with the United States, and I very much hope that it can be done, also for the good of Greenland, that we will get the country the agreement so that there will still be opportunities for training and income for Greenland from Thulebasen. But it is also quite evident that the interest of the American side in Thulebasen is that Thule lies right in the middle of Washington D.C. and Moscow, it is a key strategic area, and therefore it is also important that we are very focused on that task until a solution is found to it. So I welcome it every time we discuss the Kingdom Community here, much more specifically than we may have a tradition of. I do not know how this is going on, but if there are also discussions in the Faroe Islands and Greenland about the Commonwealth, I would very much like us to hear from there what these discussions are going on and that we ensure that we go in the same direction as we would like to go. So thank you for the debate here today, for the opportunity for it and, as I said, I welcome the great opportunities that exist in cooperation. In fact, it is also some of the things that make Denmark interesting in the world, so that we are part of the Kingdom community and thus strategically placed, even when we talk about security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142354	We have two brief comments to make. The first one's from sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142400	Thank you. Thank you for a good speech, which was very concrete. I also think it is important to keep it concrete. And thank you for recognising that it is also the Kingdom Community that makes Denmark interesting in the world. My question is not so specific. The rapporteur spoke of equality, and then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur sees it as a problem that the whole structure is based on a constitution where there is no equality, where it says that there is one parliament, and it is the Danish government, one government, the Danish government, one authority, that can levy taxes, and that is the Danish, and one foreign policy, and that is the Danish. While in practice and with pragmatic solutions we have moved far beyond the letter of the Constitution, the Constitution is still a constitution that says that there are no rights to have a parliament and legislation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The construction also means that every time you step further and further away from the letter of the constitution, it is Denmark that is allowed to do so, because Denmark has the right to define what the constitution stands for. Does the rapporteur think that this is a problem with regard to equality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142513	In any case, I believe that this is one of the reasons why we often find ourselves in the dilemma of talking about equality, but that the construction, which is mentioned here, is basically all the way back to the constitution. That is why it is important for me to point out that what we can do is to be pragmatic, and that is what reality is all about, and that is interacting with and remembering each other that we must do it with confidence and respect and strive for equality. I'm not here to propose that we change the constitution. I think that is simply too much of a task to address here. I do not think we should wait for the Constitution to be revised once, but start from the reality, and it is that we can all strive to stand on our toes to treat each other with respect and thus equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142609	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale? No, it's fine. Then there were no further brief comments, or would Mr. Soren Espersen word? Sir. Søren Espersen was on, disappeared and is back on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142624	Yeah, that's me. You can never really know where you have me, but I just want to ask you something. I agree with the rapporteur that the idea of being a better-known and older brother should not be pursued, nor do I myself have the skills to do so, but I would just like to ask the rapporteur one question: does Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen view Greenlanders and forefathers as compatriots?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142652	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142655	But if you consider them countrymen, where is it that you want to work for or support Greenlanders in that it becomes an independent country? What does that mean? If you consider Greenlanders to be compatriots, how can you pursue an agenda that states that Greenland should be independent? I must have explained that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142719	Thank you for the confidence that I can explain this very briefly. The fact that I consider Faroese and Greenlanders and Danes as compatriots is, after all, under the auspices of the Kingdom Community. If there is a great desire for freedom, a desire for independence, then I have to say that I am a little surprised that Søren Espersen may find it strange. Because if there is anyone who claims interest in and desires that one has one's identity and is very national, then it is no wonder that there are other countries where they feel the same way. But that does not prevent you from wanting to be part of a community of states, and I am listening a lot to what the Greenlanders are saying, and I am also listening a lot to what the Faroese people are saying, and I would very much like to be involved in following it on the way. So I can't even see that it's against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142805	There are no further brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go. Could I just get a glass of water without it being withdrawn from speaking time? ) It hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505142819	Thank you. And thank you for the flexibility of the President. First of all, I would like to say that it has already been a fine afternoon, and it only shows that it is good that we have the annual report on the situation in the Kingdom Community, so that we can pull out, that we are actually doing a lot of good things together, as the Prime Minister's written and oral statement shows. After all, the Kingdom community is in many ways a quite unique construction. I think there are not so many other, perhaps none at all, former colonial powers who have registered in their legislation a right to the former colonies to tear themselves loose on the day they want it. Then there is, of course, the fact that we also leave it to those people to decide whether they want to exercise that right and when they want it. That does not change the fact that we are all happy with the Kingdom community, as has been confirmed here today. And it will indeed be by the following speakers, I am quite sure of that. However, as Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen mentioned, it is important that it is an equal community, and I can therefore see a few points where there is room for improvement. Let us take the question of the areas for which Denmark is responsible and which are not transferred or cannot be transferred to Greenland by virtue of the Constitution and the Self-Government Act, for example. the question of the judiciary. This is something we have often discussed in this Chamber and where the Greenlandic Members have pointed out that the standards we have for the judiciary in Greenland do not meet the standards we have here in Denmark, despite the fact that we actually agree that, on the points where Denmark is responsible, at least the same standard as we have here in Southern Denmark must be sought, if I may put it that way. So there is definitely room for improvement. And I'm not saying there won't be any work on it. I also know that this is not something that is resolved overnight. And it costs money, yes. However, it is important that we keep to the realization that this should be so, so that we also confirm to the other two parts of the Community that we stand by the objective we have set ourselves there. If we look at foreign policy, there is also reason, yes, I could almost say, a certain humility, because the harsh facts are, of course, that if Greenland were not part of the Kingdom, Denmark would be nothing in the Arctic. Then we had nothing to do in the important forums in which we are operating today and where we are making an important effort. I fully agree with that. I really do not have any criticism of it, but it is good to think about what is actually the reason why we can operate internationally. And there is the Kingdom community an important factor. That is why I also think it is right, as has been said in the past, that Greenlandic and perhaps also Faroese sides are not quite remembering that when it comes to the big issues where the whole Kingdom community gets involved, namely what happens in the event of a war, it was reasonable to listen to the wishes that come from there. I know that there is no military service for Greenlanders and forefathers. They are not supposed to be in a Danish war operation somewhere, but whatever they are responsible for it and for such a situation, and they should at least be involved before such important decisions are made, not only in the form of the members they have in the Danish Parliament, but also in the form of their governments. The last one was this one with the Constitution, as Mr. Sjúrður Skaale was onto it. It is a perfectly sharp observation that the basic law does not correspond to reality, fortunately, one can say, because we have found some pragmatic solutions. And we have created a law of autonomy and so on, so I guess in this way things are quite legally in order. But there must be consistency between what is written in a constitution and what the reality is, and so I would like to say that when we come to a constitutional revision, and I think we will do that at some point, this is one of the points that needs to be included in that debate. A prerequisite for a good community is that we know each other, and unfortunately I think there are many Danes who do not have a very precise picture of what the situation is actually in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and have no specific experience of the conditions under which you work and live in those places. And that is why I think it is very good that we now have an information campaign and some educational material on the Kingdom community. It is, after all, the first prerequisite for a good community. Then I do not have so many comments on the Faroe Islands and on what is stated in the statement. The only thing one could say was that since one is very much committed to describing the economic development of the Faroe Islands, perhaps one should also have included a small relationship with which I know has been the subject of a very great debate in the Faroe Islands, namely the introduction of flat taxation by the present government, which undoubtedly contributes quite enormously to a growing inequality in the Faroe Islands. It is probably difficult to avoid when you introduce a flat tax, and it may also have something to do with the economic situation of the Faroe Islands today. I therefore have a general observation for the debate on Greenland: I do not think we need to do so much to tell the Greenlanders about all the problems they have. In fact, I think the Greenlanders are very well aware of the challenges they face. Then we can each have our own opinions on the ability of one or the other Greenlandic Government to tackle the problems, and I think we are allowed to express that too. We have, of course, said to each other that we need a frank debate on it, so no criticism of it. But perhaps it was good and important if members of the Folketing also told something about the good aspects of Greenland, so we do not support the Danes in a picture that Greenland is only something with abuse of children and alcoholism, and that they cannot find out anything at all. I have my personal experiences from the East Coast. And yes, there is poverty on the east coast. Yeah, there are kids starving on the east coast, that's it. But there are also in every village resourceful people who hold that society together. There are families who take responsibility not only for their own family but for the entire village. It is of course important to have resources available in the settlements that I hope Greenland will be able to make use of in a development of the country's future. Then I would say that when I look at the youth that we meet... those who travel here to Copenhagen and those we meet in Greenland when we visit... I have no worries about Greenland's future. It is young people who engage in their country, who come with many good, sharp angles that we others have never thought about, and who, for many, make it clear that once they have completed their education, it must be used at home in Greenland to build up their country. I think it's important to tell these stories so that we don't support a one-sided picture of what the situation is in Greenland. Everyone knows that there are huge challenges, but with the Greenlanders I associate with and with whom I am aware, both young and older Greenlanders, I am confident that the Greenlandic people will be able to find out. Then there's the Thule Base. It needs a few words on the way. I would like to say to the Prime Minister, since she is here, that I am sorry that the Prime Minister has not yet been appointed in the consultations where we have wanted the Prime Minister's presence. I do not understand it, because Greenland and the Faroe Islands and the Kingdom of Denmark are the Prime Minister's resort area, and we agree that this whole thing with Thulebasen, and how this matter is solved, already represents a certain kind of strain on the relationship within the community. That is why I think it would have been appropriate for the Prime Minister to enter into the debate with us in the Greenland Committee on this matter. Having said that, we agree that the Americans have not respected the spirit of the agreements that have been concluded. We are also a number of parties which believe that the government has made some rather ecstatic mistakes in this process. In the view of Enhedslisten, it was a mistake to leave the certification of these companies to the US government, and a few other mistakes have been made as a consequence of the first mistake you make there. And I think we are allowed to take part in such a debate here too, because if that situation is not dealt with properly, it could be a very serious burden for the Kingdom community. The Thulebasen is, of course, I won't list all the cases............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Having said that, I am pleased that on 22 January we in the Danish Parliament adopted a joint motion for a resolution on the basis of a question debate we had on the issue of how this matter should be resolved, namely that we must ensure that the contract remains in the hands of Denmark and Greenland; that we must ensure that Greenland is given the maximum possible return on the presence of the Americans, not least for the sake of jobs and apprenticeships, but also, of course, for the sake of the Greenland national fund, which can use that subsidy; but also that there must be no doubt in the future about the agreements reached on Thulebasen. I'm glad we agree on that. I would have liked to have said something more, but the President stands up a little threateningly, I think. I would have said about whaling and the sale of sealskins that it is good that Denmark is going on that side. What may be missing is that the Prime Minister will put on some seal next time she is going to the summit down in the European Union, and her colleagues will set an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505143908	And with these fashion advice from Mr. Finn Sørensen to the Prime Minister we welcome the brief remarks. The first is from Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505143918	Then Mr. Finn Sørensen said it anyway, as he didn't have time to say it was clever. Sir. Finn Sørensen said that when Denmark goes to war, there should be involvement of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and that it is missing. With regard to this point, there is in fact an agreement between Denmark and the Faroe Islands signed by Mr. Per Stig Møller, who says that when Denmark takes a foreign policy step that is important for the Faroe Islands, the Faroe Islands must be involved. It even says that there must be genuine involvement. And I would say that when the Faroe Islands are made formally warring, it is a matter that matters to the Faroe Islands. Sir. Perhaps Per Stig Møller himself can say a little more afterwards, when he has the floor, how it should be interpreted, but that is how I would interpret it. You just haven't followed it. You have gone to war several times since without involving the Faroe Islands or Greenland at all. So there is, in fact, an agreement that could have been enforced more forcefully than has been done. It was just a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144025	Well, then, thank you for the helpful information. That's good to know, too, for the rest of us too. Maybe we should have known, but then we got a little smarter, so thank you for that. It's good to get smarter. And then you can only hope that a similar agreement could also be reached for Greenland and that you can then find a way to manage it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144049	Anything else? That's a good thing, so let's get on with it. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144059	I should just like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that the Siumut government is spending a disproportionate amount of time on visions of independence than on solving the country's problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144115	I don't really think it's my job to grade the Siumut government, nor was it my job, which I didn't do to give the former government grades either. I do not think it is our job as members of the Danish Parliament to give the governments of the Faroe Islands and Greenland characters for their behaviour and governance, and I have endeavoured to avoid it myself. I think it's a good thing if we want this very equal community. But I'm also trying to keep up with what's going on, maybe not quite as good as sir. Søren Espersen, you never know. And what I have noted since the new government came into being is not that a lot of time has been spent talking about plans for independence. I have noted that much has been said about the economic problems and other challenges that are in Greenland; we have discussed Thulebasen, and I have read this recently, promised the Greenlandic people that they will come up with a coherent strategy on how Greenland will tackle its economic challenges in the coming years. So that impression, sir. Søren Espersen has got there, is not my impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144227	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144229	It's funny, so the shoulders of Enhedslisten suddenly becomes when it comes to criticizing governments. We are prepared to criticise the Israeli Government, the US Government, the Turkish Government and what it should be for a government, and also changing governments here. But when it comes to Greenland, something like this happens: No, we cannot criticise that. We cannot criticise the Greenlanders. Isn't this really a complete patronizing way of treating Greenland like a bunch of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144258	I think I'm gonna help out a little bit, sir. Søren Espersen's memory. It is no more than a year ago that over several rounds here in the Danish Parliament we had some rather heated discussions about the large-scale law proposed by the previous government, which was then adopted under the Siumut government that followed. That's where I think sir. Søren Espersen remembers that Enhedslisten had some very critical remarks about it and that we actually voted against it too. After all, we said very clearly that it was a law that, in our view, was contrary to the international conventions on work and human rights signed by Denmark. So we're gonna take the leaf out of our mouths at the right time and place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144346	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144355	Thank you. Thank you for a good statement, even though it's almost a while ago. It has to be said that this is not all uplifting reading, unfortunately. As we see the challenges, they are indeed very much of a structural nature, and they therefore call for reforms, as has been mentioned several times. This is, of course, something more serious and intrusive in Greenland than in the Faroe Islands. The Faroese community is favoured by very fine economic growth, a very large part of which is due to price developments and is thus a development that cannot be expected forever. Conversely, it seems that the Faroese labour force is mobile and has good qualifications that are sought abroad, as it appears, and that is of course a very important thing, although it also means that many so work abroad and pay tax there. As far as Greenland is concerned, we have to say that the labour force, on the other hand, is a huge challenge. The mere fact that more than 60% of people live in the country. Between 16 and 18 years of age are to be found outside the education system, which, to put it mildly, is frightening. It is also felt in the report that mobility and incentives are difficult to achieve more generally, which may be a story that unfortunately these are also cultural problems which are not resolved overnight. However, it presents the political system with difficult choices, which must at once be consistent and capable of carrying out, without too much shaking at hand, what is necessary, which may hurt, while at the same time ensuring that industrial development, particularly in the field of raw materials and tourism, is speeded up. So a positive agenda; more money simply needs to be made in Greenland. I therefore find it very gratifying that it seems that the government, in the form of a Danish-Greenland working group, has presented recommendations for commercial business cooperation. I also consider it a duty for the Danish Government to do everything possible to stimulate the economic development of such a difficult transformation process within the framework of the self-government law. After all, we have been able to practice reforms for a few years here in Southern Denmark. Here we must help and at the same time not blur the seriousness of the need for reform. I think it's helpful to speak very directly in this field. Perhaps that has been said many times from here on the platform. I do not think that this is exactly going to be reform of Greenland, but I am quite sure that Greenlandic politicians have gradually understood the message. In these words, thank you for your statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144652	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Per Stig Møller of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505144820	The Kingdom is a treasure that has been handed down to us for various historical reasons. It's a treasure we need to nurture, polish and watch out. After all, we lost Iceland when we were released again on May 5, 1945, because Iceland had left in 1944 and had thereby broken out of the Kingdom community. So this is something that can also disintegrate into a special world situation. I know that Iceland had a 25-year transition period since 1918 and, despite the occupation, they then chose to take advantage of their opportunity to leave the Kingdom community. We accept it, of course, when some people want to leave the Kingdom Community, but that is why this prehistory also shows how important it is that everyone thinks it is good to be in the Kingdom Community. 'Cause if you don't, you leave when the apartment opens. So if we lose the Kingdom community because of a lack of attention, we will never get it back. It is the task of every generation throughout the Kingdom community to preserve and renew it. We can lose it if we do not pay attention to each other's difficulties and challenges, if we do not work together for mutual benefit and if we do not respect each other's characteristics and our internal differences and aspirations. Therefore, it is crucial that we know more about each other. Actually, we don't know enough about each other. Kim Leine's book from Greenland may have meant that there has been a very great literary interest in Greenland, but it is Greenland in the 1780s and 1790s that this book is about, and it is the present and the future that we are dealing with. This is why the Ministry of Education has also taken a number of initiatives in this regard, but for the time being it has only become application forms instead of being part of the teaching. It is the case that Greenlanders and Faroese people know much more about Denmark and the Danes than the Danes know about the Greenlanders and Faroese and Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and this should be improved in the Danish teaching. Last year, the Danish Parliament urged the government to remove the border barriers which exist within the Kingdom community and which Mr. Edmund Joensen pointed out in the debate last year and which we took up. But nothing has happened. We are told that there will be a good solution tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but these are solutions now that we need here. The three parts of the Kingdom Community, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, have very different challenges, and we are faced with very different economic challenges. It is moving forward in the Faroe Islands, it goes back in Greenland, but in the longer term we all actually face the same problem: fiscal sustainability and the major demographic challenges due to the changing age composition of the populations. Economic conditions are each part of the Kingdom community's own responsibility, and it is each one's own responsibility to put the economy in order. But to the extent that our North Atlantic partners want Denmark's assistance and support, it must, of course, come. It is increasingly important for them to be outside the European Union while we are inside, and it obliges us to secure and secure Greenland and the Faroe Islands as good agreements as possible with the European Union. It is, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of a number of banking matters today, and fortunately this has also been achieved right now in the context of several fisheries agreements, but Greenland is still facing unreasonable problems with regard to seal catches. We still have problems with the European Parliament, which is due to problems with the WTO, which will not distinguish between Canadian and Greenlandic catches, nor do they understand coastal catches and the original catches. Parliament itself has made contact with the European Parliament, which has now shown understanding for Greenland, but as far as the WTO is concerned, it is the government's table. Here it must act. The government must also do so with regard to the service contract at Thulebasen, now that, in the view of the Danish Parliament, the United States has broken the conditions of the Thule Agreement, which has been renewed several times. Unfortunately, there is much evidence that the government has not dealt with this matter with the necessary vigilance. Since it wanted to exercise due diligence, it seems to have exercised it in the past and without sufficient legal care. Something is still a mystery to me, Madam Prime Minister, who has not wanted to take part in any consultation, so I take the chance now if the Prime Minister will listen? Thank you. It is still a mystery to me why the government did not place emphasis on what is called external relations, that is, foreign policy relations. For if Thule is not between Greenland and Denmark, between Greenland and the USA and Denmark are external relations, there are no external relations. And if it is external relations, it is not a matter for the European Union. So I do not understand why we missed that opportunity when we started investigating our relationship with the European Union. The political process between the United States and the Danish Government is now in progress late and it has not yet led to anything, on the contrary, and this will weaken the already weak Greenlandic economy. I understand that Greenland has been involved in all the meetings and negotiations... that was also the point of the Itilleq agreement we made in 2003... but that doesn't change the fact that a bad job seems to have been done and that the Americans have exploited that weakness. It is cases such as these that harm the community of the Kingdom, even though there is probably more need for a strong and united kingdom now than has been the case for many years. The new conflict with Russia can spread to the North Atlantic, as Mr. Søren Espersen mentioned, and it can spread to the Arctic, for which the eternal Russian troublemaker Rogozin has now become a Russian ambassador. After all, he has just called the Arctic the mecca of Russia, and this suggests future provocations. I had the pleasure of negotiating with him when we were to have the Kaliningrad solution in place, so I know he will be sent out when it has to be made difficult. So this suggests provocations and confrontations in the future, although we agreed with the Ilulissat agreement to avoid such things and solve all problems in peace and harmony and with respect for the law of the sea. We must maintain this agreement, and we must maintain the good cooperation in the Arctic community, the North Atlantic, so that none of us will have any unpleasantness. Because I agree with Mr. Søren Espersen in that neither the Faroe Islands nor Greenland would be allowed to lie as protected as they are now, if they were to be outside the Kingdom community, as according to many Faroes and according to many Greenlanders, with whom I agree, is an umbrella if it really rains. The challenges and unpleasantness must be met and resisted together. However, if we are to succeed in the long term, our internal cooperation must be expanded and strengthened even now in the short term, and we must remove the obstacles and stones that may be on the road and that we can remove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505145527	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Johan Lund Olsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505145542	Thank you. Inuit Ataqatigiit would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for once again this year in the Danish Parliament the opportunity to debate matters of importance for the Kingdom and for the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. This is an appropriate opportunity to look at the issues and challenges currently facing the Kingdom community. As the report points out, the Greenlandic economy is strongly challenged in these years and the next many years, mainly due to declining fishing, decreasing raw material activity and decline in tourism, as well as investment in construction projects. Economic activity in Greenland continues to decline, as opposed to the Faroe Islands. Political reforms are therefore very much needed to support business development and to address the financing problems of the welfare society. From Inuit Ataqatigiit we are pleased that all parties in Greenland now clearly recognize the need for reform. During our time in government, we initiated preparations for a number of reforms, including: with the establishment of the Tax and Welfare Commission. The work is thus done. What remains is political debate. The present and the previous Naala Suisut have unfortunately neglected these political discussions. Under the Naalakkersuisut led by Aleqa Hammond, reform work was virtually halted, but as mentioned, the will is now there at least. But at the same time, inequality in Greenland is increasing to a frightening extent, and there is no will on the part of the present Naalakkersuisut to make up for this inequality. We still do not have the prospect, for example. a progressive form of taxation. We still have a flat tax. It is undoubtedly clear that Greenland needs new and different professions to be developed. We must ensure stable and positive business and economic development that can promote investment in all sectors of Greenlandic society. We believe in Inuit Ataqatigiit that a strong economy is at the heart of maintaining a system of solidarity in the future. That is why it is central to us that efforts in the field of industry go hand in hand with educational and social efforts. Too many of our young people are unemployed, and too many of our unemployed are not able to work because of social and abusing conditions. We need to pick up widely, and we need to do away with the sectoral breakdown of interventions. Inuit Ataqatigiit believes that it is of great importance that we find together within Greenland, but also in cooperation with Denmark, strategies and a regulatory framework that in turn can create economic stability and vocational and educational development in Greenland. Inuit Ataqatigiit is of the opinion that Greenland will catch up by ensuring that many more of our young people receive qualifying training. Together, let us also look at the possibilities of training and the creation of internships because it is urgent. It is urgent because economic development in Greenland is also greatly influenced by external factors and events. An example of this is the American military presence in Greenland, and Greenland's economic challenges are definitely linked to Pituffik, Thulebasen. The case of the new service contract at Pituffik also presents the challenge that the Kingdom community is facing, which among other things. The previous speaker mentioned where we have so far witnessed a community of poor internal communication and lack of coordination with the consequence that cases are not handled in the full interest of Greenland. We believe that any case involving Pituffik, Thulebasen, should always have the full attention of the Danish Government at all times. History shows that events at and at Thulebasen have always caused problems for relations between Greenland, Denmark and the United States. For the people of Greenland, Pituffik has a very special place in the historical consciousness, and the base is of great economic importance for Greenlandic society through work and apprenticeships and tax revenues for Greenlandic society. In view of the major economic challenges that Greenland, as mentioned earlier, faces, the outcome of a payout on Pituffik, Thulebasen, is therefore very worrying. It's too bad and should have been avoided. The American military presence in Greenland must, of course, be of benefit to Greenland and the Greenlanders and not just be a pawn in Denmark's foreign policy and relations with the United States. I suppose that is exactly what the parliamentary decision of 22 January this year is about. Seals and seal catches are a very important part of our daily life and culture in Greenland, and this has been the case for millennia. The seal population by and around Greenland is not endangered, and it is a hundred percent sustainable use of the seal resource, where animal welfare is also tiptop. Nevertheless, in these years, we are seeing that the European Union wants to introduce further tightening of imports of seal products into the European Union. When that happens, it will have very serious consequences for Greenlandic society and especially for many families of prisoners in very many settlements and outlying areas in Greenland. The European Commission's failed and emotional import bans on seal skins therefore have frightening consequences, which is why it is also important for us in the Kingdom Community to stand together. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we are therefore also very pleased that all good Danish and Greenlandic forces are united in this particular case in a joint struggle for a more sensible approach to Greenlandic seal catches. We need the European Union to recognise that Greenland has the right to its cultural identity, its traditions and, above all, to economic development. It has emerged that since 1992 when Greenland took responsibility for health, the Danish Health Authority has failed to warn Greenland about health professionals who have been deprived of their authorisation in Denmark. In 1993 the Danish Health Authority concluded an agreement with the other Nordic countries to warn and to be warned across national borders when cases of incompetent healthcare professionals are pending. However, in a new answer to Inuit Ataqatigiit, the Danish Minister for Health explains that until March of this year Greenland has only been informed in special cases. This is a clear breach of trust in the Kingdom community. Inuit Ataqatigiit requires certainty and responsibility, so that we can restore confidence in the collaboration with the Danish Health Authority. Inuit Ataqatigiit therefore wants a formalized agreement, so Greenland is guaranteed notification when health professionals lose their authorisation and should therefore not work in Greenland. Inuit Ataqatigiit is engaged in promoting Greenland's interests within the present framework set out by the Kingdom Community. Among other things, it will: Firstly, to ensure a sensible implementation process of the self-government agreement; secondly, to ensure real co-determination and uniform standards in matters of government; thirdly, to continue work to improve the living conditions of Greenlanders in Denmark; and fourthly, to work towards better knowledge of Greenlandic conditions by citizens in Denmark and elected representatives. But we will also continue to insist from Inuit Ataqatigiit that Greenland is given increased foreign and security policy competences in relation to today. After all, it is our young people who lose internships and job opportunities when the service contract at Pituffik, Thulebasen, is miserable and left to the will of the Americans. It is also our prisoners, and thus a significant part of our culture, who will lose if we do not secure an EU market for our sustainable seal skins. Finally, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party, my own party IA, Inuit Ataqatigiit, and Sjúrður Skaale from the Faroe Islands, I would like to make a proposal for adoption. I would just like to point out that on the proposal for adoption which was read out from this point of view by Mr von der Vring. Flemming Møller Mortensen, we have some additions, and that is why I would just like to concentrate on the additions that we would like to see incorporated into the proposal for adoption. We'd like to add... or should I read it all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150459	The correct thing would be to read it all out, as the parties mentioned now propose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150506	Okay. Thank you, sir. President. On behalf of Enhedslisten, Socialist People's Party and Inuit Ataqatigiit and Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin, I shall make the following proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses great pleasure at the Kingdom Community and stresses the need for an ongoing dialogue on opportunities and challenges in the Kingdom Community. Good dialogue is the prerequisite for equal and respectful cooperation between the parties to the Kingdom. In order to continue to promote the development of the Kingdom Community, the Danish Parliament calls for cooperation between the government and the national leaders of the Faroe Islands and Greenland to be strengthened. The Danish Parliament therefore wants the real participation and participation of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the common foreign and security policy of the Kingdom of Denmark to be strengthened and promoted at the same time, as well as that the same standards in matters dealt with by the State in the Faroe Islands and Greenland are sought. The Danish Parliament notes that the Faroe Islands and Greenland face economic challenges, among others. in terms of ensuring fiscal sustainability. The Danish Parliament invites the Government to keep itself informed of the economic situation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland and to offer cooperation and administrative assistance within the framework of, and with respect for, the Home Rule and Self-Government arrangements, if the Faroe Islands Government and Naalakersuisut so wish. The Danish Parliament notes that the Kingdom gives the Kingdom an important position and a great responsibility internationally, not least in relation to the development of the Arctic. With this also comes responsibility inwardly, so that all decisions taken in the context of Arctic cooperation take account of all three countries of the Kingdom Community. The Folketing also recognises the usefulness of an annual inquiry debate in the Folketing, where the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community can be debated together and without prejudice. 15.48 was read out as proposal for adoption No. V 49].
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150712	Thank you to Inuit Ataqatigiit's rapporteur. The read text will be put to the vote on Thursday. There is a problem with the length which the Parliamentary Administration may want to discuss with the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Søren Espersen has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150733	Thank you. Now we ourselves sat together in the Greenlandic-Danish Self-Government Commission at the time and had many good meetings. One of the things that was put forward by Greenland as a very important point was that the block subsidy was frozen. It used to be the case that it was negotiated year by year with changing finance ministers, and then the block subsidy was organized after that. Did Mr. Johan Lund Olsen regretted having the block subsidy frozen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150809	Thank you for the question, sir. Søren Espersen. It is true that me and Søren Espersen sat together in Greenlandic-Danish Self-Government Commission and negotiated among other things. the block grant agreement. I can confirm that we in Greenland do not want to renegotiate that part of the agreement so that it is settled. We take that responsibility. We have no idea that the self-government agreement should be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150839	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150841	But it would be the case that if it were that part of it was changed in the self-government agreement, there would be a natural equalisation, as there has been at all times, in relation to Greenland and, incidentally, also the Faroe Islands, which has continued in the old way, so to speak. It is Greenland which has independently taken the initiative to freeze the block subsidy. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that if that part had not been there, Greenland would not necessarily have been in the huge economic problems that we are facing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150914	One of the problems with the erosion of the block subsidy is that we have different inflation rates in Denmark and in Greenland. Unfortunately, it is precisely in these years that we have higher inflation than Denmark, and so the annual block grants that we receive here from Denmark are eroded. But there's a way to turn things around. It may well be that we will have better economic development. You never know that. But that can happen, and we have hopes of it. But we stand by the part of the autonomy agreement concerning the block subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505150954	Thank you to Inuit Ataqatigiit's rapporteur. Then it is Siumut's rapporteur, Mrs Doris Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505151008	We gotta go. Just as last time we had this debate, I should like to begin by thanking the government for the statement that has been made. Before I go further, I would also like to say that Greenland is already in the process of reform, so that, Mr President. Søren Espersen says he's not right. There are also now Naalakkersuisut areas of intervention, so it is not right that we should do nothing either. On the contrary, there have been major developments in recent years. Siumut has been the leader of the big changes, and when we make mistakes, we also take responsibility while others go away from responsibility. In 2009, we voted on self-government. The percentage of votes was 71.96. That is to say, 54 per cent. of the people of Greenland have voted in favour of self-government and that only 23.57%. voted no. So it is a very clear result that shows that the people of Greenland have the will for independence in the future, and the Danish People's Party cannot slow it down. It is a factual review of the situation in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, as it looks right now. You are tempted to call it a description of the Kingdom community we know. We must, of course, safeguard that. And the explanation goes as far as merely implying renewal, besides pointing out that we in Greenland and the Faroe Islands should improve our economy quickly. That is why I would like to quote the words used by the Prime Minister when it comes to the Denmark we know, namely that we must move forward. There is no one in this Things that would like to be satisfied with the Denmark we know. Each party has a different desire for new, exciting forms of development for Danish society, so that citizens become even more free and self-borne people. All parties have a desire for new initiatives, so Denmark's cooperation with other countries and international position is still improving. That's why the Prime Minister says we have to move on. In Greenland we have politicians who are exactly the same, and they probably do in the Faroe Islands too. That is why this debate should also be about how we can bring together the rest of the Kingdom community more freedom, new opportunities for citizens and a better position internationally. The viability of the Kingdom community has been severely tested over the last few years. First came the case of the EU boycott of Faroese fishing vessels, which prohibited the unloading of fish from Faroese vessels in Danish ports; a grotesque situation in a kingdom community. Then came the case of the U.S. new interpretation of the agreement on service of Thulebasen; a situation which until now has left the entire Kingdom community as a loser on our own land. And at the moment, the case of the EU renewing the Inuit exemption on the trade in seal skins, which really threatens the very occupation of the hunter in Greenland, runs its course. In all three cases, it could be considered whether it would have made better sense if Greenland and the Faroe Islands had been in a position where we could have negotiated on our own behalf without being part of a common system which has a number of interests other than ours to deal with the United States and the European Union. At any rate, it was only when the Faroe Islands took the fisheries case into their own hands and used the international legal system that the conflict over the fishing boycott was settled. In the same way, when Greenland set its foot before the Arctic Council, it did not succeed in putting all three governments at the negotiating table. Denmark could not do it itself. The situation around the Arctic Council, which unfortunately continues to hold closed ministerial meetings without Greenlandic participation, is particularly grotesque when one considers that Greenland alone is the ticket for both Denmark and the Faroe Islands to describe themselves as Arctic states at all. Someone has tried to set the rumor in motion that the new Siumutled government no longer works for an independent Greenland. Our Prime Minister, Kim Kielsen, has answered that clearly: the desire for independence is by no means extinguished, but right now we are putting every effort into creating the economic basis first. In this context, let me say that Naalakkersuisut has now made savings of 50 million. kr. in the public budgets as early as next year, while unemployment in Greenland is clearly declining. Both are positive factors which do not appear in the statement. For Siumut, independence is not the same as separation from Denmark. What we want is to be able to represent ourselves to the world and preferably in continued cooperation with Denmark. And there is a middle way to an internationally recognised position that Siumut has repeatedly pointed to in this Chamber. The model is called free association. We are faced with an election, and in six months' time a number of new members will be sitting here discussing the future of the Kingdom Community. I would call for the free association model to be taken differently in here after the elections and to begin to examine the benefits that can be given to the whole Kingdom community. Because with free association we can maintain all the cooperation we want, while at the same time the Faroe Islands and Greenland can achieve the freedom internationally that is our dream. We can remain a community and we can continue to bring this community forward, for example. Greenland will be able to participate in the Olympic Games under its own flag, but will continue as part of the Danish community. And perhaps the Greenlandic children in Denmark could finally have the same rights to mother-tongue education as the German minority children. Surely we could then be exempt from responsibility for the wars Denmark is throwing itself into in these years, without even being asked about our position. And Denmark could be free from taking responsibility for Faroese fishing and Greenland's whaling if it was wanted down here. All of this could happen while we still form a community... a free community of kingdoms. But already there are new ways for the Kingdom community. It only requires, in the first place, that the autonomy that we agreed together in 2009 be fully respected and used. So there are a number of areas that Greenland should take over as soon as possible. The forthcoming Parliament should take action to provide a clear analysis of the economic-practical consequences of possible takeovers in the future. We must ensure that the areas that have not been taken over fully comply with Danish international standards. The cases to be dealt with in the courts in Greenland should not take much more time than the same cases do in Denmark. We cannot continue with settlements in Greenland without proper police coverage and there are a number of detentions that are under any criticism. Human rights must also be respected where it is difficult geographically. We can also continue to increase cooperation within the realm of business development and financial control, and we can increase efforts to get Greenland and the Faroe Islands marketed in the world if we get more into the trade promotions Denmark is so skilled at doing all over the globe. As I said earlier, Greenland is Denmark's ticket to the Arctic and all the exciting developments taking place in the area of the world. In the same way, Denmark can strengthen its role in connection with Greenland's ticket to the rest of the world and for development and economic growth that can be won by it. That is how we can ensure both the Kingdom community we know and move forward together. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152016	A brief comment from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152021	Thank you. Siumut's rapporteur says that something is now going on and that it is going the right way and so on, but that is not what I read from the Prime Minister's statement, which shows that the calculations of the Greenland Economic Council show that there is a need for budgetary improvements of up to 900 million. kr. or 61⁄2%. of GDP in order to ensure the balance. And you have actually given those warnings since 2010; that is, for five years you have been able to see where it went. What is then included and answered by Naalakkersuisut is that work is being done on a sustainability and growth plan that will be presented this year. That doesn't seem to indicate that something has been set in motion, but I understand that something is coming. What might it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152108	Since we had the new Greenlandic government, we have been working on a new reform within, for example: social area. So we are in the process of the new reforms recommended by the Economic Council, and we have some other areas of action on the part of Naalakkersuisut. Among the four main areas of action is better education, where we spend more money on education than the other Nordic countries in relation to GDP. Then there are various forms of economy, a change in the public sector and a new tax system. We are dealing with these four areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152200	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152202	However, in our terminology here in the Folketing it is usually the case that a positive reform of the social and educational system costs money. That is what we normally understand by the need to reform and that things need to be done better: that then it always costs money. But Greenland does not need to grant more money. Is it not more savings that need to be made in order to have a proper economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152230	We spend millions of dollars on foreign consultants, and that's money we want to save. We will also collect money from industry. Of course, we also spend a lot of money on education, for example. we are building some new educational institutions. Yes, we have free education, but we also spend a lot of money on education. The studies also show that we spend more money on education compared to GDP than the other Nordic countries. And, as I said, we are also engaged in various forms of economy, the public sector and the tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152324	Thank you to Siumut's rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteur of the Samband Party, Mr. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505152337	I should like to take this opportunity to make a brief assessment of the last debate on the Community in this parliamentary term. Of course, there are pros and cons of all communities, but the basic thing for all parties in the Kingdom community is that the benefits are much greater than the disadvantages. There are pluses and minuses in the policy of the current government in relation to the community. That is, for example, the case. a plus that we now have regular Kingdom debates in this Chamber and that Members have overcome the fear of contact with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But it is a minus that the government has still not thought of a common strategy for the Kingdom community. It is a plus that we have come over the boycott of the Faroe Islands, but it is a minus that the Faroe Islands and Denmark have not joined forces and have long ago struck a common battle to improve Faroe Islands' access to the EU market It is a plus that Denmark has to take a position on the banking union. Now we need to know how the rest of the community is covered as well as possible. It is also an absolute plus that all parties in this House agree to remove internal border barriers in the Commonwealth. But it must be said to be a minus that the government is hurrying slowly and has not yet started work. That's how good bets are, but also lines in the bill when we take stock of the state of the Kingdom community. Generally speaking, the community is in a reasonably good condition and we work together and listen to each other, but there is a lack of concrete initiatives from both Danish and Faroese sides, initiatives that can be means to better develop the kingdom community. We have to change that. The government's statement clearly shows that there is a lack of fiscal sustainability in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. That is why, as has already been said, there are major economic challenges in both countries today. This also applies to areas where the Faroe Islands and Denmark have joint responsibility. These areas are not mentioned in the PM's statement, but what I am talking about are important welfare areas which Denmark and the Faroe Islands jointly finance under Section 9 of the Home Rule Act. What did the government say? Exactly five months ago, the Prime Minister in this Chamber said that as long as an area is not taken over, it is our duty to ensure that the standards are largely the same throughout the Kingdom community. It is a binding promise, and I take for granted that it stands to believers. How is the standard in the Faroe Islands compared to in Denmark? If we take health as an example, we can see that the difference is marked. Let's look at some key figures. 10,6% of Denmark's GDP goes to health; in the Faroe Islands you are down to 7.7 per cent. of GDP. In this country, the government spends over 30,000 kroner. per citizen on health; in comparison, the Faroe Islands spend just over DKK 21,000. per Citizen, i.e. It is a level that is one third lower. In the Faroe Islands, there is now a debate, a wide-ranging debate, about medical shortages. We need over 50 doctors. This is equivalent to the fact that in Denmark more than 5,000 doctors would be missing. This is quite a horror scenario, but it is already the situation in the Faroe Islands. The Faroe Islands Medical Association states that there are, for example: is not a cancer doctor, no neurologist, no lung doctor, and there is no dermatologist, and I could go on. It is no wonder that many people think that it is risky to get seriously ill in the Faroe Islands, because the situation is serious. The citizens of the Faroe Islands, and they are Danish citizens as we know, are at risk of getting less and worse diagnostics and less and worse treatment and thus less benefit from the great advances that characterise medicine elsewhere, for example. in Denmark. My message is that, as I see it, there is not nearly the same standard of health in the Kingdom community, as the Prime Minister has said that the government has a duty to ensure. In the Faroe Islands, of course, there is a duty to have as much health as possible for the money, and the duty of the government must be to ensure that all citizens have fairly equal access to health services. Therefore, I have to hear what the Prime Minister says: how will the government ensure that the Faroe Islands reach a level of health care that is virtually the same as the Danish one? Thank you for a good debate on the Kingdom community and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505153128	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Samband Party. Then it is Javnaðarflokkurin's rapporteur, Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505153140	Thank you. When the Queen's thoughts go to the Faroe Islands every New Year's Eve, as it is called, you may sometimes have some doubts as to whether they do so in reality. In any case, it may sound like a standard phrase carried more of a duty than of commitment. And when the prime ministers in the great speeches mention the Faroe Islands, it is also rare in that part of the speech that the most controversial messages lie or are proclaimed. You see some things, and you are so careful not to be controversial that you are hardly political either. Politics is public relations. definition always a little controversial. I understand that, because everything the Prime Minister says about the Kingdom is being turned and turned, and if she does not tread carefully, she is being accused of one thing or another. That is why, I suppose, only so much has been said on many occasions that it is not possible to be accused afterwards of not having said anything. That is precisely why it is good that we have such a debate as today, when we talk more freely about all things. The circumstances have, of course, allowed relations with the Faroe Islands during the period of government which is now coming to an end to be put at the forefront of the agenda. The fisheries dispute between the EU and the Faroe Islands put the relationship under great pressure. The two international actions in which the Faroe Islands brought two actions against the EU and thus against Denmark and had to do so in the name of Denmark put the relationship under pressure. But now that we can evaluate the progress of these cases afterwards, we have to say that things were actually going well. The kingdom community turned out to be so spacious that the Faroe Islands could maintain their independence, could go their own way, could fight their own battles while being part of the community. These are the two concepts which are crucial for the functioning of the relationship: community and independence. The moment the community feels too much like a straitjacket, it comes under pressure from the inside. But the two cases mentioned are not over. Now it is the Faroe Islands' trade with Russia that is gnawing. The European Union, and thus Denmark too, is affected by the Russian boycott of food products, and it has been asked not to exploit the situation, as expressed, so not to take market shares from the EU countries that are now boycotted. But the Faroe Islands have a very long tradition of relations that way. During Communism, for example, the Faroe Islands were. one of the very few countries that had fisheries agreements with the Soviet Union at all. This was possible and it was accepted because the Faroe Islands were also a NATO country, and there was no doubt as to where the Faroe Islands strategically belonged. The Soviet Union could not use economic relations to exert political pressure on the Faroe Islands. That is exactly what it is today. That is why I was very pleased to hear the Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, confirm that as long as there is no doubt as to where the Faroe Islands belong strategically, NATO had no problem with trade. On the contrary, it can be softening in a very tense situation. The European Union is sceptical, I know that, and I understand that too. However, the Russians must have food and that they eat fish cannot in any way exacerbate the situation in Ukraine. On the other hand, if they were not allowed to buy fish from the Faroe Islands and other countries, there is little doubt that Russia would break out of the fisheries agreements that they have with the EU, Norway, Iceland and the Faroe Islands and set its own quotas unilaterally. It would not benefit anyone, only move the conflict over to a new field where it would subsequently escalate. And the price would be among other things. be paid by the EU, not least by Denmark. Denmark would be affected by much lower prices on the European market if Russia did not take so much of Faroese exports and it was granted to Europe instead. In addition, the Faroe Islands were hit by a boycott from the European Union for a year, which pushed Faroese exports precisely to Russia. That's where the logistics were built. And finally, it is a fact that the Faroe Islands export almost only food. If we had fully followed the European Union's line in this matter, we would have paid a far higher price than any other country. That wouldn't have been fair. I can imagine that there may be some concern in the government that the Faroe Islands had not been so sensitive to the warnings that both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister have made to the Faroe Islands in this matter. But I hope that, in this case too, we can understand the situation of the Faroe Islands and that, in this case too, the Kingdom of Denmark will not have to limit the Faroe Islands' ability to act independently. Having said all this, there should be no doubt whatsoever that the Faroe Islands are on the right side in the free world's fight against the Russian dictator. The day after tomorrow there will be elections to the British House of Commons. In Scotland, the SNP, the Scottish National Party, is to win 53 of Scotland's 59 seats in the House of Commons. Why are there so many Scots who cannot settle in the community with England? Because they feel that the balance between community and independence is unbalanced. England interferes too much, England rules too much. The Scots want a government of their own choosing. They want their own tax system, where they get all the revenue from the taxes levied in Scotland. They themselves will give priority to their own public investment. The North Sea oil is Scotland's oil, they say. And then they will put the future of Scotland in the hands of Scots, as was said in the election campaign before the referendum. The SNP would like to belong to the EU, but not to Britain, because they feel that the community is taking too much, independence is too much pressure. Then you can compare with the Kingdom community that we are in. And then it is very interesting to note that in the Faroe Islands you can put your flybone out for almost all the wishes that SNP has. It is the Faroe Islands' oil, it is the Faroe Islands' tax system, it is the Faroe Islands' investments, it is the Faroe Islands' trade agreements, it is the Faroe Islands' fisheries agreements; that is, we have got room to be independent in a community. And as long as it continues as long as autonomy can be contained within the community, I think there will be support for the community. But there is something else that is important when it comes to the debate on these matters. When you talk about the kingdom community in Denmark, it is often referred to as a one-sided relationship, understood in the way that it is Denmark that gives, and Greenland and the Faroe Islands as receiving. You don't put so many words on the benefits that Denmark has from the community. Therefore, it was liberating, I think, to hear the Foreign Minister in November in a conversation about Denmark's role internationally say that doors are being opened because Denmark is not only the southern part of the kingdom, but also Greenland and the Faroe Islands. He went on to say that the fact that Greenland is part of the kingdom gives better access to decision-makers around the world. And he said that Denmark, because of Greenland, can better take care of both our values and our economic interests. This may be natural, but one should be more open about it. It should also be remembered that the decisions taken by the Kingdom of Denmark under the Arctic regime should be taken jointly after negotiations or consultations with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. For it is as the Prime Minister ended his speech today by saying: The kingdom makes all parties larger, including Denmark. Yet, of course, there is one party that is bigger than the others, and that is Denmark. That is why Denmark has to listen to a lot of criticism on many occasions. I will therefore finally sign for some of the specific cases which have been resolved over the past 31⁄2 years, which are important, even though they may not fill up so much in this House. Denmark sits, as it is now, with the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It offers opportunities, and the government has them among other things. used to focus on the possibilities of the so-called blue bioeconomy in the Nordvestatlant. The specific work in this connection has been delegated to the Faroe Islands Ministry of Fisheries, which has gone to the task with great enthusiasm, because there are great opportunities for better exploitation of the marine resources. The government has agreed to finance the establishment of an infrastructure for genomes in the genetic biobank in the oceans, the government has helped finance the conservation of important cultural heritage in the oceans, which has been made educational materials about the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which are in use in the Danish primary school, the Danish police made a very fine effort last summer, where the Faroe Islands were almost occupied by the environmental organisation Sea Sheperd. There are certain border barriers which have been removed during this period and there are a number of other small cases which have been resolved, specific cases. I'd like to sign for that. That is what makes the community work when the concrete things work. That's what people are asking for. Right after the election, I had a meeting with the Prime Minister about our cooperation, and there I went into this with the Faroese constitution that was wanted to be obtained, that is, that there was a need for a constitution that clearly stated that it is the Faroe Islands' people who decide on the Faroe Islands and that the Faroe Islands' Laying is the supreme authority in the Faroe Islands. There was also sensitivity to it. It came into the government base, which says that one understands the need for a Faroese constitution. Now the matter has not become topical because it was not raised by the new Faroese Government, but it is there, and when the Prime Minister or other Prime Minister is about to write a new government basis, one should also be sensitive to it and take into account that there is a need for the rights which the Faroe Islands have been given by pragmatic means to be formalised. I can see from the President that time is almost up. That's it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154256	Yes, it is. But there are a few questions. The rapporteur has one more chance, because there are two issues. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154308	Thank you to the rapporteur for an interesting and interesting speech as usual. I think that is also true of the conduct of the North Atlantic mandates in this debate. I think they all have a good way of expressing their views and their wishes to the Kingdom community. This is a constructive way, and I think we should all thank you for that. I have a question for the rapporteur regarding this issue of the Faroe Islands' agreements with Russia. I fully recognise the right of the Faroe Islands to make trade agreements with whom they wish. The Faroe Islands are not a member of the European Union, so the Faroe Islands themselves have sovereignty in that area, and we should not question that. I also heard the rapporteur's remark that it was very critical of the way in which the Russian Government is proceeding. What, then, is the rapporteur's view of the Faroese lagman's statements a year ago, when he was in Moscow to negotiate agreements, fisheries agreements, and when I understood that what he said was that it was a nonsense that the European Union had imposed sanctions on Russia? Perhaps those were not exactly the words he used, but the message was, I think, very clear: that the decisions taken in the European Union, on that matter, were certainly not in favour. What is the rapporteur's position on that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154440	Thank you for your commendation. When it comes to the second question, it was more such an internal Faroese question, but now that I have spoken on it, I can repeat that I have been extremely critical of the comments that have been made. I have said this in the international press, in the Danish press and in the Faroese press. Because I believe that it can be interpreted as having made some political statements in order to gain an economic benefit. I think that was unfortunate, but since then I have found that the lag man has also said that the Faroe Islands are strategically united with the West in the fight against Russia. But that was an unfortunate statement. I can't run away from that, because I've said that elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154523	Finn Sørensen? No. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154528	First of all, I would like to say that I agree with what has been said about the analysis of the sanctions against Russia. I would like to agree with that. Then the rapporteur himself mentions the referendum in Scotland, which I thought was very exciting to follow. The hallmark of that referendum and the prelude to it was that British and Welsh and British-oriented politicians flocked up there on a large scale and interfered in the referendum and said: stay in the union! If Greenland and the Faroe Islands want independence, then here in the Danish Parliament there are some who sit and say: Well, they must do so themselves. This suggests that there is a greater love for the union in Britain and the United Kingdom than there is here in Denmark, where as a Danish politician you don't give a shit it's something they take care of themselves. Is it not depressing to be a member of such an association?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154630	Thank you for the question. No, I don't think so. I do not think that is correct either. I believe that all the rapporteurs who have spoken here today have expressed their entirely honest opinion on what they think about the Community. There has also been a major debate on independence in the Faroe Islands 10-15 years ago, when the Danish Prime Minister so much interfered and was also in the Faroe Islands and said his opinion and said that one should stick to the community rather than go solo. So I don't think you've held back when it came to that. I think you've gotten involved when there's been something at stake. And I think that's okay. I think it's quite okay that they interfere, of course, because it's a community we all share. Then one must also be allowed to express one's opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154716	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154718	Yeah, but I'm also in favour of getting involved. But I am surprised that here in the Folketing there is a seemingly complete apathy in relation to a Greenlandic desire for independence, that is to say that they just say that they have to find out for themselves. I heard that mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen was the first to say it from the platform as Prime Minister: they must. And I thought, that's a weird show. Why, then, should you do so? Shouldn't we be committed to keeping the union, keeping the Kingdom community? That is actually what I am asking the rapporteur: is it not strange to experience so much total apathy for a community of kingdoms, a union, when one constantly talks to the contrary?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154759	I didn't agree with that way of looking at things. I think it has been said that they have the right, and I think it is very important to say that they have the right to self-determination. This is also said in London: Scotland has the right of self-determination, but we do not think that is right. I think that's the same thing you've done in Denmark. It has been said that you have the right. For me, it is absolutely crucial to say that the Faroe Islands have a right of self-determination. But the fact that you also say that you don't think it's a good idea is the political part of it. I think that's okay, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154827	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I'd like to give him the floor. Johan Lund Olsen was able to read out a shorter version of the proposal for adoption which he had previously read. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505154847	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that we have a proposal for adoption. The first time I read it out, it was a little too long, and we must, of course, abide by formal rules. It is something about the fact that a text of adoption must contain a maximum of 150 words. We have fulfilled that here, and I shall read out the proposal for adoption. It is a proposal for adoption by Enhedslisten, Socialist Folkeparti, Inuit Ataqatigiit • my party • and Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin, Faroe Islands: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom of Denmark 2015. The Danish Parliament welcomes the Kingdom and stresses the need for an ongoing dialogue on opportunities and challenges as a prerequisite for an equal and respectful cooperation between the parties to the Kingdom. The Danish Parliament wishes to promote the real participation and participation of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the common foreign and security policy of the Kingdom of Denmark, as well as to seek equal standards in matters covered by the State in the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. The Danish Parliament notes that the Faroe Islands and Greenland face economic challenges and therefore calls on the government to offer cooperation and administrative assistance if the Faroe Islands' Government and Naalakersuisut so wish. The Danish Parliament notes that the Kingdom gives the Kingdom an important position and a great responsibility internationally, not least in relation to the development of the Arctic. With this also comes responsibility inwardly, so that all decisions taken in the context of Arctic cooperation take account of all three countries of the Kingdom Community. • V 49).
ParlaMint-DK_20150505155044	Thank you to the rapporteur for the abbreviated version which, as I said, will be put to the vote on Thursday. Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister, who has the opportunity to round off the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505155054	Thank you very much. I think we have had a very good debate today about the Kingdom Community. It has been alive and, as I said in my reply, I think we should be able to talk openly about the challenges that exist, including the common challenges that exist. We have done so today. I see here in the Danish Parliament a quite great commitment and a real commitment to the Kingdom Community. We have seen this before in the great debates, so it must be said to be a good thing. I am also pleased with the proposal for adoption made by a large majority here in Parliament. It is an adoption in which we focus on dialogue and cooperation, as the very heart of the Kingdom community. As our debate here today has also affected, the Faroe Islands and Greenland face economic challenges, especially in the slightly longer term. It is the Faroe Islands and Greenland that are themselves pursuing economic policy and are also responsible for taking the decisions that will ensure welfare in the future. In the government we are of course interested in the economic development of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and that is also why we regularly discuss it with the Faroese and Greenlandic local government. The demographic development of the Faroe Islands and Greenland means that reforms and new revenues are needed if welfare is to be provided in the future. We will follow the work on economic policy in the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the coming years. On the part of the government, as I said in my reply, we are also prepared to cooperate and help with the administrative in relation to reforms, if the Faroe Islands and Greenland so wish. The question of Greenlandic independence has been mentioned several times here today, among others. by Mr. Søren Espersen. As I understand the debate in Greenland, the desire for independence is not current on the political agenda in Greenland, nor is it in the Faroe Islands. And I would like to make it clear that the Government's desire is a dynamic and strong Kingdom community, and that is a wish which we fortunately share with a broad majority in this Parliament. At the same time, however, the government recognizes, of course, that it is the people of Greenland or the Faroese people who ultimately decide whether they want independence. That is our system of self-government, and we have full respect for that. I agree with Mr. Søren Espersen and others in that we in the Kingdom Community are strongest when we stand together. I do not think anyone is in any doubt about my or the government's attitude to the Kingdom community, namely that it is a very good thing. Therefore, working together in the Kingdom community is also central to the government, which is also reflected in the statement we have made about the Kingdom Community. But I do not think there is a need for a joint commission to strengthen the community we already have and are constantly developing. We have, of course, seen a framework for how to develop the Kingdom community on an ongoing basis. Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland already cooperate in a wide range of areas. It is both within the Kingdom community, but in fact also in relation to the rest of the world. One of the issues that has been raised here today is border barriers, and that has been raised by several Members. During the discussion of a resolution in spring 2014 it was B 34 that various issues were highlighted which made it necessary to reconsult all ministries and the two national leaders. Because of the elections in Greenland, the Greenlandic authorities have only recently had the opportunity to respond to the hearing. Therefore, work is continuing with the Faroese and Greenlandic authorities in order to identify the Nordic border barriers that affect Greenland and the Faroe Islands and, of course, border barriers within the Kingdom Community. Once the work on identifying the border barriers has been completed, the government, in cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, will proceed with the problems that need to be resolved. Both, sir. Johan Lund Olsen, Mrs Doris Jakobsen and several others have raised the matter of the service contract at Thulebasen. It is an important matter for both Greenland and Denmark, and as I have also mentioned several times before, the clear position of the government is that Thulebasen should continue to benefit Greenland as much as possible. Of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the self-government are currently negotiating with the United States a solution that is of the greatest benefit to Greenland, and I understand from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the negotiations are on a constructive path. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained the details of the matter, including the negotiations with the United States. He did so in a closed session on 18 March. Then there is the case of seal catches, which several people have raised again, both Mr. Johan Lund Olsen and Mrs Doris Jakobsen. As I said in my reply, there is no doubt that the marketing of Greenlandic sealskins is seriously affected by, among others, the situation. the negative campaigns against seal catches. The government, together with the national government, has worked internationally to ensure Greenland's interests in relation to seal catches. That's what was signed for, and I'm glad. The starting point is that seal hunting is a sustainable and legitimate profession. That is why we have also made it clear in the European Union that the Commission must inform and eradicate the misunderstandings over the EU's import ban and the Inuit exemption. In relation to the work on the amendment of the EU seal regulation, we have a close Danish-Greenland cooperation to look after Greenland's interests in the current negotiations. And I am actually confident that what is being done at the moment will also be beneficial. Then a question was raised about the health professionals' authorization conditions in Greenland, and I would like to say that to Mr Seligman. Johan Lund Olsen, who raised the question that all health professionals in Greenland except Greenlandic trained nurses work on the basis of Danish authorisation. And the Greenlandic health service also has as an employer on an equal footing with Danish employers, like for example. the Danish regions, the possibility of obtaining information from the Danish Health Authority on conditions for health care professionals with authorisation. I can then understand that, in the light of the case in March 2015, the Danish Health Authority has changed the practice, so that the Greenlandic and Faroese authorities are also now informed separately in the event of restrictions on authorisations. In addition, the health authorities in Greenland have called on former patients to contact the health services in Greenland if there are concerns in the specific case. However, as health has been taken over by Greenland, it is the Greenland authorities who have to decide how to follow up the matter. To Mr. Edmund Joensen, who asked questions about the EU's strengthened banking cooperation: The government believes that it would be beneficial for Denmark to participate in the strengthened banking cooperation. We will only take a final position once we have seen how cooperation works in practice and when the necessary clarifications have been made. A joint working group with the Faroe Islands and Greenland has been set up to examine the consequences for the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the event that Denmark participates in the strengthened banking cooperation. That work has not yet been completed, but it will be as soon as possible. However, I would like to mention now that the ECB has indicated that, since the Faroe Islands and Greenland are not members of the European Union, institutes in the Faroe Islands and Greenland are excluded from participating in the cooperation. Having said that, however, I would also like to stress that this will not affect the supervision of the Faroese and Greenlandic institutes. In any event, it may continue as it is today, when institutions are subject to supervision by the FSA. So there is at least clarity about certain parts of this matter. There was by Mr. Edmund Joensen and I would also like to go into the question about the standards within e.g. Health. I have to say that in general terms, I am saying this all the time. Of course, we respect the Faroe Islands' system of home government and the competence of the Faroese authorities to legislate and administer in the areas that have been taken over. Under Article 9 of the Home Rule Act, the Faroe Islands have taken over the regulatory and administrative competence in parts of the health and social field, while the Faroe Islands have assumed full financial responsibility and receive a general state subsidy. Therefore, it is up to the Faroe Islands, without the involvement of the State, to manage the areas in the same way as if the areas were taken over as special matters. Therefore, it is up to the Faroe Islands to prioritize and decide the standard within the social and health areas. It's not that it's not now that we've had the discussion many times, and that's why I've wanted to say that's the way it is. If an area has been taken over, then it is not the Danish state that has to ensure that the standard corresponds to the Danish one in the areas that have been taken over. If we just remember the answer I gave in the Danish Parliament in December, to which reference was also made, then I actually referred to the areas where the state still has the full competence and which we carry out in the Faroe Islands. That is, for example, the case. Police. In relation to these matters, it is true that Denmark must ensure that the standard is the same in the Faroe Islands as it is in Denmark with the deviations that can be justified in Faroese conditions. I think it is important to put this in place so that no misunderstandings arise. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale had a very wide talk about many different things. I'll take a couple of things. Something like that, sir. Sjúrður Skaale did not reach, but as I know he believes, and as others have also raised, the issue of the involvement of the Faroe Islands in decisions on participation in armed conflict. And here I would like to make it clear that the government naturally attaches great importance to our continuing dialogue and exchange of information with the national leaders on foreign policy issues which are of particular interest to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But it is also the case that Denmark's participation in armed conflicts must be dealt with in the Folketing. In this context, of course, there is also a debate in Foreign Policy Name, where members of parliament from both Greenland and the Faroe Islands are of course represented. And in relation to motions for resolutions, for example. a further Danish military contribution in support of the efforts against ISIL, I would like to emphasise that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave the national leaders of the Faroe Islands and Greenland a briefing in connection with Parliament's consideration of the proposal. I think that is a correct way of dealing with the situation. Then there is the question, which was also raised, of constitutions. Can you work freely with your own constitution in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands? After all, it is up to Greenland and the Faroe Islands to decide whether they want to set such a work in motion. But it will also be the case that as long as Greenland and the Faroe Islands are part of the Commonwealth, proposals for constitutions for the two kingdoms would of course have to be compatible with the legal framework resulting from the Constitution and from the Self-Government Act. This is because there can be no one interested in creating ambiguity about our relations and about the constitutional status of Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively in the kingdom. I think I've come all around. It has been an excellent debate, I think, in which we have discussed many different issues. And basically, it must be said, also in the light of the debate we have had today, that we have a modern, vibrant Kingdom Community in which we constantly have the desire and the will to find common solutions in an equal partnership. I think that is a very high quality, which we must maintain. I think, as I said, that this has been a good and constructive debate today, where we have touched on some of the challenges we face and also insisted on discussing the challenges we face with each other. So I would like to thank you for a very good debate, many good and interesting speeches, and I look forward to working on strengthening and developing our Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160517	So far there are three who have signed up for short remarks. The first is sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160523	Well, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for some good answers here in the second round; I thought that was fine. However, I would just like to comment on the small detail, which is not a detail, but which, for me, is absolutely crucial, precisely about autonomy. In other words, when the Prime Minister says that it is not a discussion that is topical in Greenland, I would say that it is a truth with modifications. I think she'd know that too if she read the Greenlandic newspapers. It's incredibly big. That is where I miss some kind of activity from the Danish side like the one I thought we were talking about before the Scottish vote, where Prime Minister Cameron was repeatedly in Scotland, right up to the vote, and committed to preserving the Union. I miss that from the Danish side. I see such an apathy, as I mentioned before, which actually started with Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who said: they must find out for themselves. I cannot stand that attitude, and I want to hear from the Prime Minister whether we do not have an obligation to fight to preserve the Union we have; whether it is not our job to interfere in it. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister directly: will we see her if she is Prime Minister at that time? I hope not, but if that is how it was there in Greenland and campaign for the union and say: vote no to that independence? Or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160642	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160645	I think it's really important not to mix things up. I say that there is, of course, a debate about independence, primarily in Greenland • and I have full respect for that is a debate that you have of course had but I am also experiencing, and it was also very clearly said by the Siumut rapporteur, that there is a focus on implementing the reforms and the changes that need to be made in order to have a coherent economy. Everyone knows, of course, that if you want to have autonomy through years, it will probably start and end with the fact that the economy is linked in both the short and the long term. Having said that, I think we should be very careful about that, Mr President. Sjúrður Skaale also very clearly compares the British Union and the Kingdom Community we have. These are two completely different sizes that we're working with here, and you can't make that comparison. What we have been doing over the past many years is, after all, a significant modernisation of our kingdom community. Since 2005, we have implemented a system of self-government which basically allows the Faroe Islands and Greenland to take over responsibilities which are on a very defined list. This can be done completely independently. And what is special now is that the development of the Kingdom community is going to take place from within rather than that we sit overall and decide how it should be. I think that is a very exciting and, excuse the expression, also very modern way of developing our Kingdom community. So one thing I don't want to be sitting on is that I don't have any opinions on this. I am very much in favour of the Commonwealth, and that is also why I am very much in favour of the system of self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160825	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160829	The Prime Minister is right that there is a huge difference between our Commonwealth and the British Union, namely that it is only from the 1730s, while ours goes back to 600-700 years before that. So it is a huge difference that makes us consider ourselves countrymen, which is not the case in the United Kingdom. So that is just another reason to fight for the Kingdom community that we have, and that is the commitment that I think I miss from the Prime Minister who feels so little about saying: they have to find out, and they have to do just that. I would like an active commitment and an indication from the Prime Minister that she will fight like a lion to hold our kingdom community together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160911	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505160913	Well, I'm very much in favour of the Kingdom community. I don't know how to say it anymore. But we also have a system of self-government, which means that the Kingdom Community has the opportunity to develop in the coming years in line with the wishes of the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. That's an amazing arrangement. I would like to say again that it cannot be compared with the British Union or other countries where they do not have a system of self-government in which, step by step, more competence can be acquired in some areas. It is a much wider system of self-government that we have, and it is now up to the Greenlandic and Faroese people themselves to decide what they want to take over. So I know I don't share your opinion. Søren Espersen, but it's not the same thing as I don't have any opinions. The government and myself are very concerned that we must have a modern kingdom community that develops and, above all, develops in line with the wishes that may be in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161016	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Edmund Joensen asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161021	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer. It is good that we are going the right way to secure our banks. I asked about the welfare area, and it is in particular the medical shortage in the Faroe Islands, which was the reason for my questions. I'll give you a little lesson in the Home Rule Act. Well, we're taking over after two paragraphs of the Home Rule Act. If you take over under Section 2, you will also take over the whole area. Then there are some matters for which the state is entirely responsible. But then we have the third thing we talk about here when we talk about health. This is an area where the Faroe Islands have taken over the administration, but not the payment. And that's why the Faroe Islands get a block grant. Now I understand that the Prime Minister is drawing ashore in terms of the level. Everyone knows that the reason why you didn't take it over under § 2 was that you wanted to secure the payment and ensure that the level was the same throughout the kingdom that it was the same level as in Denmark. Third Vice-President Yes, please! ) And basically it is part of the same system where the Faroe Islands also use the hospital services in Denmark for certain diseases. Third Vice-President Thank you! ) So I do not agree at all with the Prime Minister in her interpretation in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161216	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. Then it's the PM to answer. Let me remind you that there is 1 minute in the first round and 1⁄2 minute in the second.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161223	Thank you. Well, thank you for the instruction, as sir. Edmund Joensen calls it in terms of health. It's just not exactly correct. For it is the case that, under the Home Rule Act, the Faroe Islands have taken over it here under § 9, which means taking over the regulatory and administrative competence in parts of the health and social field. At the same time, the Faroe Islands have assumed full financial responsibility for the full financial responsibility but then receive a general state grant to cover the task. It is therefore entirely up to the Faroe Islands, without the involvement of the Danish State, to manage the areas in the same way as if the areas were taken over as special matters. Therefore, it is also up to the Faroe Islands to prioritize and determine the standard within the social and health areas. It is not a Danish responsibility to ensure that the standard in the Faroe Islands corresponds to the standard in Denmark in these areas, and I think that is important to say so. At the same time, it is also important for me to say that my response in the Danish Parliament in December was not about health. It was about the areas in which the State continues to have full competence, such as: Police area. There it is true that we have a duty to ensure that the standard is the same in the Faroe Islands as it is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161351	Thank you. Sir. Edmund Joensen for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161355	I can only thank you for the answer, but I still do not agree with the Prime Minister in her interpretation. The reason why it has been taken over under § 9 is precisely that the payment was fifty-fifty from the state and from the Faroe Islands. But there has been a change, I understand, in this State Department and in this new government, so it looks quite different. But it is also an enlightenment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161430	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161431	I am quite convinced that there has been no change in this matter and that it was not the view of the previous government that it is a Danish responsibility to ensure that the standard in the Faroe Islands corresponds to the standard in Denmark. That is the responsibility when it is an area in which one still has the full competence, but it does not have it in an area such as the social sphere, which has been taken over under Article 9 of the Home Rule Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161458	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161502	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement and also for the way the Prime Minister responds here, where the Prime Minister enters into dialogue with the various rapporteurs who have had comments. That's a good way to discuss it. I had a comment that I did not hear the Prime Minister's reaction, so I would like to try to see if we succeed now, and that is my comment that I did not understand why the Prime Minister himself did not stand up for the two consultations in which we had asked for the Prime Minister's presence in connection with Thulebasen. I remember the written answer, which was that it was the Foreign Minister's area, but it is probably also the Prime Minister's area, and that is probably why the Prime Minister is here today. Well, Greenland is the prime minister's area, and the kingdom is the prime minister's resort. So I thought it was reasonable to ask for it, and I do not understand why the Prime Minister did not run, so I would like the Prime Minister's comment on it. At the same time, I would also like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with the proposal for adoption that we made here in the Danish Parliament, all parties except the Danish People's Party, on 22 January, on what should come out of the negotiations on the service contract at Thulebasen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161619	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161621	I heard that part about the responsibilities, which is why it is also a great pleasure for me to be allowed to correct the misunderstanding which I think it was about responsibilities. It is simply wrong to think that I have the responsibility for all questions relating to Greenland and the Faroe Islands for that matter. My responsibilities include general issues relating to Greenland's and the Faroe Islands' autonomy arrangements, and this also means that questions relating to issues relating to Greenland and the Faroe Islands are the responsibility of the trade ministers. And that, in fact, corresponds to the practice that my predecessor had in this area, so it really should not surprise anyone. Some have also asked why I do not want to take part in consultations in the Greenland Committee. And I would like to do so; a conciliation has been arranged on 26 May, and so it is not quite correct that I do not want to stand for consultation in the Greenland Committee. However, I would like to say that it is quite consistent practice that it is the minister responsible who answers questions from the Danish Parliament on a given matter, and I have of course followed that practice as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161729	The second brief remark by Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161732	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I have to admit that I still do not understand it, because the Thule case is a matter that could burden the Kingdom community if it is not resolved satisfactorily. I think the Prime Minister agrees with that. And that is why it would have been a good idea, formal or otherwise, in any event, for the Prime Minister to have complied with the request of the Greenland Committee that the Prime Minister be present twice, we asked for her presence. But I look forward to having a consultation where we can discuss it. The Prime Minister did not answer my second question as to whether the Prime Minister agrees with the proposal for adoption that we adopted here in the Folketing on 22 January, what should come out of the negotiations on the service contract at Thulebasen, and whether the Prime Minister also agrees that the task of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this respect is to pursue the objective of achieving the things we want secured in the context of the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161830	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161832	I have said many times in the past that it is the government's view that Thulebasen should benefit the Greenlandic people, so of course we stick to that. And I have to say that I understand perfectly well that the Folketing is interested in this matter and that the Bureau is interested in the matter, but it is now the case in the Folketing that the minister responsible answers questions from the Folketing on a particular matter, and that is also the case in consultation. And I have to say that I find nothing, absolutely no basis to change that. That was also the practice of my predecessor. And I just have to say that the supply of the service contract for Thulebasen is clearly within the remit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs answers questions about it here from the Danish Parliament, just as he has answered a number of other questions from the Danish Parliament on the matter, and so it will also be forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161934	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505161938	Thank you. As I said in my speech, these are the concrete things that are the most important for ordinary people, for business and for everyone else, and that is why I spent most of my time talking about concrete things. But now the Prime Minister himself says that if work is to be done on a Faroese constitution, it must be accommodated within the legal framework laid down in the Constitution. This is, of course, a more theoretical matter, but it can still be important, because the problem is that the Constitution does not describe the Kingdom community at all as it is today. Fortunately, the Constitution has been chosen from and the Kingdom community for the development of the Kingdom community. There is no legal basis in the Constitution for legislative power or for a tax system in the Faroe Islands. It is clearly outside the framework of the Constitution. Therefore, in the debate on these matters, it is important that the government recognises the undeniable fact that reality lies outside of the constitution. Otherwise, it will be difficult to move forward with the discussion on constitutional law. It is recognised by all legal experts involved in it. It should also be recognised by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162052	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162053	As I also said in my reply, the Commonwealth is governed by the Constitution and by the autonomy arrangements. This is the legal framework for our work, and I think I have said so many times that respect must be respected. That is why there is nothing wrong with working with a constitution in Greenland or in the Faroe Islands, but it must of course be possible to accommodate it within the legal framework we have decided jointly. Because there can be no one interested in uncertainty as to the legal framework in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162134	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162135	I understand, of course, why the Prime Minister must stick to that view, but it is now the case that all the experts who have dealt with it here say quite clearly that there is simply no agreement between reality and the Constitution, and if we are to respect the Commonwealth as it is today, then we have to disregard the Constitution. It's either the Kingdom or the Constitution. I am also guessing that the Prime Minister can see at heart that it is, but I also understand that she has to hold on to the fact that it is not so. But when the Constitution states that there is one legislative power, it is wrong. It is quite obvious that this is wrong, and the government, like all experts, must acknowledge this in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162217	The Prime Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162218	So, I say what I mean, also what I mean deep down, and that is that we have both a constitution and a system of self-government and that the legal framework for our kingdom community is governed by it. I find it very difficult to understand that one can disagree with the fact that if you challenge the legal framework, you have a new situation. That is just what we are saying. If you create a constitution that challenges the legal framework, then you have a new situation. Otherwise there will be a lack of clarity as to the legal framework in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162256	Then we have the last brief comment, at least for the time being. It's from sir. Johan Lund Olsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162302	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister for the answers given here at the second round. The Prime Minister was among others. I should like to mention the health professionals in Greenland, whom I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. So we are talking about the Kingdom Community and how we can strengthen cooperation within the Kingdom Community and promote the cohesion we now have. There I noticed that the Prime Minister mentioned that Greenland has the possibility to obtain information from the Danish Health Service about Danish health professionals if there are problems with their authorisation. That's exactly what happened at home. Since Greenland took over health responsibility and the entire regulatory competence in that area in 1992, it has been practice here in Denmark that the Danish health authorities have informed the health authorities of the Nordic countries about Danish health professionals if there have been problems with their authorisations. But this has not been done in relation to Greenland since 1992 and until March this year. There is what we are asking for to have a formalised agreement between Greenland and Denmark, so Greenland is guaranteed a notification when health professionals lose their authorisation and therefore should not work in Greenland. That is what we would like to see, also in order to strengthen cohesion and cooperation within the Kingdom community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162441	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162442	Well, that's what we got. As I understand it, the Danish Health Authority decided in March 2015 to change the practice so far, so Greenlandic and Faroese authorities are now informed separately of restrictions on authorisations. So that's what we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162505	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen? No. There was no wish to speak for the second brief remark, and it does not appear that more people have asked to speak. That concludes the debate. Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister. As I said earlier, the vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 7 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162543	The debate is open. I give the floor in the first place to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505162611	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for the draft parliamentary resolution on the establishment of a neutral loan pool for the replacement of obsolete energy installations. I would like to make it clear that this is not a proposal that the government can support. At the same time, I would like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party is touching on an important point which has the full attention of the government. The problem addressed by the Danish People's Party with the motion for a resolution is that there are many older energy plants that can be replaced with modern and more efficient plants and that many of these old plants are housed in areas where housing prices make it difficult to borrow money for the replacement. The Danish People's Party then proposes that the government establish a fiscally neutral loan pool to enable homeowners who cannot be granted loans by the established banks or mortgage institutions to finance the replacement of e.g. their earned oil pine with a government loan. The reason from the Danish People's Party is that many landowners in rural areas find it difficult to borrow securely in the property to finance a modernisation of the energy plant because the housing prices are too low. Dansk Folkeparti wants the loan pool to be designed so that the owner of the house pays back the loan over a ten-year period in line with the saving in the cost of energy, and that the homeowner must also experience more money available. In addition, Dansk Folkeparti wants a state loan pool to be used to finance both RE solutions and new oil or gas boiler. When I first acknowledged that the Danish People's Party, with the motion for a resolution, touches on a key point, it is because we are faced with a major task of ensuring that the buildings outside the collectively supplied areas, which are now heated with oil burners, are heated in the longer term with a cheap renewable energy-based alternative. Efforts to phase out oil and natural gas pine require a long and tough move and long-term efforts are needed in this area. This is particularly true of the oil-fired buildings outside the collectively supplied areas. It is important that we do not stop focusing on the long-term objective of an energy system that must be independent of fossil fuels. I therefore also believe that it would be quite fundamental to do the building owners concerned a disservice to keep them warm with oil pine, which is one of the most expensive forms of heating available. In that case, we simply postpone the switch to heating with cheaper VE for 15-20 years, which is the average life of an oil pine. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Minister for Industry and Growth has just set up a committee which, among other things, has been set up. to examine the specific loan challenges for rural buildings. The Committee shall conclude its work by 31 August 2015. It is not long ago that a similar motion for a resolution by the SF was rejected by the Rural and Islands Committee. It would be common sense for this proposal too to be rejected, so that we can take decisions on a fully informed basis when the results of the committee work are available. I understand the proposal that Dansk Folkeparti wants the loan pool to be targeted in particular at homeowners who cannot obtain loans elsewhere. The lack of the possibility of obtaining loans from commercial banks and mortgage banks must either be due to the difficulty of obtaining loans secured in a property because the housing price is too low or because the householder's economy is not considered to be sufficiently good. Therefore, it seems likely that the State loan pool will have customers that are characterised by a low credit rating. The State loan pool will therefore have significant losses and any losses will ultimately have to be borne by the Treasury, regardless of whether Dansk Folkeparti expects a smaller interest rate premium to cover any losses. The Government's objective is that oil fires should be phased out by 2030 and, in order to achieve this objective and as a follow-up to the 2012 Energy Agreement, a large number of initiatives have been launched to promote the phasing-out of oil pine in favour of, for example: heat pumps or wood pellets. We have among other things. In this context, it should be pointed out that the Commission is not in a position to take the necessary measures to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market. an energy company installs, finances and operates heat pumps from consumers, who in turn pay for the heat, in the same way as district heating customers do today. Such business concepts are estimated to be potentially capable of removing potential financing barriers for many homeowners. There simply does not need to be a large amount of money up front. In fact, it is already possible to lease a heat pump on the basis of our testing of the business concept today if you do not want or can finance the replacement of your old oil boiler. However, as I have said, efforts to phase out the oil pine require a long and tough move, and I have therefore asked for further proposals to be made for initiatives to speed up phasing-out also in areas without access to district heating or natural gas. It is my expectation that these proposals for initiatives will be included in the discussion of the action after 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163106	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. Then we move on to the series of speeches. It's first, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163128	I would like to pay tribute to the Danish People's Party for raising this issue here, in terms of how we finance the green transition in rural and peripheral areas, in areas where, as the Minister pointed out, the houses are very cheap and where there may be a very great financial burden in investing in a heat pump or in a new efficient oil boiler. There are various support schemes in the field of energy saving, but there is still little money there, as well as the cessation of the housing job scheme, helping to make it more difficult to finance such conversions, because it is no longer possible to deduct the craftsman's costs associated with installing the oil boiler. We also note with satisfaction that there is very, very broad agreement in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. I believe that it is all parties, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, that agree to try to look at the possibilities for financing the green transition, which I believe is in the whole country, and therefore also in rural areas. We think it is sensible to see the outcome of the work and the proposals that come from here before we start establishing new initiatives here in the Folketing. I must also say that in general we are rather concerned that the state is about to act as a bank, as will be the case with this proposal. Against this background, we must reject the motion for a resolution, but we are following the work closely, and we, as the Danish People's Party, are also very aware that there is a challenge to have looked at here, but we do not believe that a state regime is the solution to this issue, nor that we in the Danish Parliament should act as a bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163324	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163333	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this issue. I am almost tempted to say that I have seen before that the Danish People's Party was right when they pointed out a problem, but that they were certainly not right when they pointed out what solution they thought there was to the problem. I think it is the same here, because we fully agree that there is, of course, a challenge. One has to consider how to support the green transition that one wants to support in general, but also how to support the green transition in some of the many areas outside the collective supply network, so that it does not go all by itself in the eyes of the goose, and this also applies to the specific issue raised by Dansk Folkeparti regarding the lack of opportunities for borrowing. It is also clear that when we are opposed, even though we are in favour of the issue, this is due to the points raised by the Left rapporteur on it too. We do not think it appropriate that we should act as a bank by the state, especially if what we have to do is compete with the private institutions and, as I understand it, grant some more advantageous loans than people would otherwise have been able to obtain. I'm afraid so too would give a risk. In other words, if you, as a mortgage institution, go in and consider that you cannot give a loan here, and the state must do so, then I also believe that the state risks greater losses than what the Danish People's Party immediately predicts, because it was supposed to cost nothing for the Treasury. However, it is equally substantial that we believe that, basically, if a conversion is to be made and it has to be supported, then we also have to switch to fuels other than oil-fired. As the Minister said, it is a disservice to do yourself if an oil pine is installed with a life span of 20 years, thereby binding itself to it, if it is the case that the conversion to be made must pay for the electricity bill, if I may say so, or on the energy bill. Then I think we should discuss whether the energy companies should be given the opportunity to help, as has also been mentioned, through this leasing scheme or other things, just as we have seen it with ESCO projects in different places where they say: Now we are making the investment, and then we are financing the investment over the saving that has to be. If you think, as the Danish People's Party suggests in the proposal, that saving can be realized, and I think that is very right, then I would rather go down a different path where we get someone other than the private home owner to bear the installation cost that might be involved. Finally, of course, we also think that there are a number of things in the outermost regions which may be problematic. There are, moreover, a number of things that need to be done in the field of energy. Among other things: We have said with Better Living in the energy sector that it is much wider than just that, if it is to be oil pine, and in the context of the discussion on whether you can borrow in the outermost regions, there is, as I said, a statement going on from the Minister for Business and Growth, which is due to be completed this summer. We must, of course, wait for it to have the best possible basis for decision-making. So, yes, we have a challenge, but if we are in the situation that, by making a new installation, you can actually save so much money that it earns itself back in, then we should rather let some energy companies, that is, some other players, go in and take that gain or do it through BetterBolig or some of the other things we've done, rather than let the state act on the worst and most vulnerable of these loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163700	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Socialists. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163721	Like the previous speakers, I would also like to pay tribute to the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate on oil pine, which we have in Denmark's rural areas in particular. Oil pine is often expensive, and thus the people who live in these houses pay a relatively high price for the heat, and then the oil guys naturally emit CO 2 Dansk Folkeparti's solution is that the state has to borrow money to make new plants in these houses. We in the Radical Left are not in favour of this. You can save good money by creating heating systems, solar systems or other things that are both greener and cheaper, and we therefore think that private people should pay for this themselves and not taxpayers. If you can't borrow for the new plant, for example, because it... is located in an area where it is difficult to borrow, a solution could be that the local energy company could stand for it as part of their energy savings efforts. The Radical Left would very much like to discuss whether it is possible to take steps to promote this, but it should not be measures that involve taxpayers having to cover loans for something that private people can make money on. The government has a goal that oil pine will be phased out in 15 years, which is why the government has also launched various initiatives, including: As I said before, energy companies come in and finance heat pumps, for example. The government, as we heard just now, announces that this scheme is being examined whether to do more, and the Radical Left is willing to listen to good proposals that can encourage the replacement of oil burners for renewable energy sources at market conditions, but not by the taxpayers borrowing money out. The Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163931	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Steen Gade as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505163942	Thank you. I would also like to pay tribute to the Danish People's Party for focusing on the two things that are probably here, i.e. the opportunities to finance loans in peripheral areas and also the focus on the conversion that is to take place in Area 4. First to the financing part: SF has, of course, put forward a proposal to actually create a kind of supplementary credit system with some state guarantee scheme inspired by the Norwegian model. That is what we are still working to achieve. As the Minister and others have said, the Minister for Industry has started work to look at the funding. Unfortunately, it is made in such a way that you have said that you will not look at someone who has some type of state guarantee. Then we in the SF are quite doubtful about finding a solution to the problem. Then there will certainly have to be much more pressure on the credit unions in that study. It may well be that the Minister can give it that would be a good thing. But we shall have to look at that then. But we basically want a different answer, and we have also put that forward in the Folketing. As far as area 4 is concerned, that is to say, the solution and the transition from oil to other sources of energy, we would say that we must take the step fully so that it becomes a switch to renewable energy sources, also in area 4. I am pleased that the Minister mentioned the work that the Ministry of Energy has also helped finance in developing a new business model to promote the use of heat pumps. In fact, the idea is to move the investment away from the customer, that is to say to the person who has this residence in area 4, and then it is the company that invests in the heat pump. It is so that the person who lives in the house and who has a heat pump installed is free from that investment and could in principle continue to pay the same for the heat he has paid before, but he has then installed a heat pump. Ideally, this will be possible with a model that will also allow the energy companies to count it in their energy savings. This means that a business model can be created which means that not only large business customers can have energy savings linked to the energy savings obligations of the energy companies, but perhaps we could get this up to a large scale so that the energy companies could own a whole lot of heat pumps, which could then also be controlled through central grid management systems, so that we could bring in economies of scale, even if we go down into the individual housing. I am very optimistic about that, and if it has a chance at all, I think it would be absolutely fantastic if we could have such a system put in place. I am glad that the Minister indicated that this is one of the things he wants to look at. So I would say that we should not give support to new oil guys. It's doing people a disservice. I don't think we should encourage it to be a pill guy either. It's not the future. On the other hand, we really must have an opportunity to go directly to heat pumps and then find a gifted investment model, which means that the investment does not lie with the owner of the dwelling in Area 4, but lies with a supplier of heat pumps, so that the owner only has to pay for the heat, so that it can be said that even if you live in Area 4, you really get a kind of district heating advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505164423	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505164445	Thank you. I will read out a small speech, as our rapporteur on this subject, Mr President. Per Clausen, has written. It is not a delusion that Mr. Per Clausen should have dropped the mustache. The Enhedslisten is, from the outset, in favour of the proposal to ensure that investments in new renewable energy installations can be financed in an attractive way. We are also positive about better opportunities to raise money for investment in rural areas. We have put forward a number of proposals to ensure this. With regard to the proposal put forward, however, we lack a clarification of what the Danish People's Party envisages as being able to benefit from this favourable financing, and we also lack a response to how this system can be set up so that it does not burden the state's finances and, if it does, how it can be financed. We cannot therefore support this proposal immediately, as it has been drafted, but are happy to enter into negotiations on how to resolve a system that addresses the challenge that this proposal seeks to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505164552	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505164604	The Liberal Alliance fully recognises the need for extra activity in rural areas, just as we agree with the proposers that there may be very economic and environmental common sense in changing old non-profitable energy sources with new ones. Combining a model which, with public intervention, ensures low energy costs for homeowners, while purchasing a new energy plant, is perhaps equally optimistic, especially when it is not meant to cost anything to the public either. That's how I got it. We do not see for ourselves that we should set up some kind of state bank, even if it could become cost-neutral. That goes without saying. On the other hand, we do not wish to deny in advance that we can construct some model of the Growth Fund or something in connection with any guarantee scheme which would facilitate funding in these areas. As I read the proposal, it is relatively open which model should be chosen and how much money can be spent. So it never costs anything to discuss the possibilities, but I would already like to say that I am facing a number of demarcation problems and a risk that we will put an additional administrative layer on top of all the many other well-meaning arrangements that we already have. After all, the financing scheme for wastewater treatment plants in the open country, which we have had up some time ago, was not quite without problems when we had to define, and this was even a question of the public authorities imposing a special task on some disadvantaged residents. This is not the case here, so I think it also makes a difference. So the message from here is that we are sceptical, but let us now look at the possibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505164802	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505164809	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the debate. It is certainly true that it is relevant to look at how we can do something more for outskirts and outlying areas. We have also found, in the context of the conciliation circle, that there are some areas where there are some solutions that should be looked at if possible. The proposal put forward in connection with the motion for a resolution here, which means that the state must be the guarantor and the sponsor of the scheme, will not be able to support in the Conservative People's Party, but we would like to help to see whether there can be other ways of promoting the view that people living in peripheral areas who have a low-value property that has little money at their disposal should be taken into account. Can one somehow create a system, be constructive in our attitude towards them, so that they can replace some energy plants which are not modern and which emit too much in relation to what is desirable? We would like to take part in this at any time, but it should be a solution that we will be bringing together in the conciliation circle. There we should try to exploit the different pools and the different measures that can be taken there. In other contexts, as other rapporteurs have mentioned, can we find stimulus packages of growth packages, employment packages, development packages, etc., so that peripheral areas are taken into account? Then we are also prepared to take a positive view of it. But that the state should be the guarantor of a loan option we do not believe in overall being beneficial to the Treasury. After all, there are some 130 financial institutions that will all be able to see a business in financing such a solution here, and when they are not willing to take on the task, the probability that this is causing huge losses is, of course, present, and we do not think taxpayers should pay for that, so we must find another way of finding funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505165005	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505165022	It is the view of the Danish People's Party that many of the obsolete and polluting and particle-producing energy plants, which are in many houses today in many of the sparsely populated parts of the country, can be replaced with more modern and more energy-efficient energy plants. However, there is a particular problem relating to houses located in the parts of Denmark that I mention here that these are areas which are characterised by stagnation and decline, and therefore, because of the fact that housing prices are in many cases very low, it may be difficult or impossible for the owner to obtain loans with security in the property to finance the modernisation of the energy plant. In the Danish People's Party, it is our assessment that there is a need for society to find a solution to this problem. Our bid is to create a state loan pool here to finance the replacement of old and outdated energy plants with modern and energy-friendly plants, and where the owner pays back the loan in line with the saving in energy costs. The purpose of the loan pool is to create a recovery in the outermost regions of Denmark. In the nature of things, the craftsmen and subcontractors who are for these energy plants will get more to do, and it is the intention of this pool that those who acquire a new energy plant, like a carrot from day one, will get a larger monthly amount of availability, which in itself will also make it more attractive to move to these rather sparsely populated areas, which otherwise find it difficult to attract new residents. Everything else equal will also increase the value of the houses that get new energy plants, which in turn will raise the quality of life for many people in these parts of Denmark. It is also well known that the government and a political majority in the Folketing have set some high targets for the Danish reduction of CO2 2 compared to 1990. It is, of course, a high target that has not yet been achieved, and it may also prove to be an expensive target if new and perhaps more alternative means are not used. The development of renewable energy sources has in many cases proved costly, even so much so that the current government has had to abandon parts of the green conversion policy. Among other things: After all, it has been found that the PV support scheme was too expensive for the Treasury and too lucrative for the PV owners, and therefore it had to be changed so that it was less attractive. Similarly, we have also had to postpone the construction of the wind farm Kriegers Flak by a couple of years. In the Danish People's Party, we are happy to contribute to reducing Danish energy consumption in a way that does not burden taxpayers and electricity consumers with new large bills. The purpose of the motion for a resolution here is to create a situation in which Denmark reduces both the emissions of particles, climate and environmental impacts and our dependence on fossil fuels, and, above all, that we boost growth, particularly in the sparsely populated parts of Denmark. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party also stresses that we in Denmark must move towards greater energy independence, especially by Middle Eastern countries, by installing less energy-intensive energy plants in Danish homes. Furthermore, it must also be said that Russia's annexation of parts of Ukrainian territory has shown that the gas that Europe buys from Russia can also be taken hostage in a political conflict created by Russia. It's a situation we'd like to navigate around. Therefore, we propose that the Danish Parliament adopt this state loan scheme, which should enable all Danes with an obsolete energy plant to obtain loans to replace the old energy plant. It must, of course, be a precondition that the new energy plant generates a saving in energy consumption which makes it realistic to repay the loan within a short period of time, for example. 10 years, through continuous reductions in the purchase of oil or other fuels. An energy loan pool like this will also give the business community a big boost, which will particularly benefit the sparsely populated parts of Denmark, where many houses still have old energy plants. Thus, there are many built-in synergies in the proposal, among others. a CO2 If the loan pool copies the SU scheme and that is actually what we have had in mind where the interest rate is the discount plus a given rate, then it can be done without cost to the state. After all, the state can currently borrow at an interest rate close to 0 per cent. Of course, the scheme here must take account of the fact that some people will not be able to repay their loans, but that can be financed by taking a small interest rate to cover the losses that may come from some bad payers. We consider the motion for a resolution to be cost-neutral when we include CO2 On the other hand, we assume that there will be a benefit to society, as better energy installations benefit the climate, the environment and the economy in general. The Danish People's Party wants the loan offer to the houseowners to be composed in such a way that from day one they will have more economic room for manoeuvre than if they did not replace the old energy plant. In practical terms, by offering a 10-year repayment period, it is only necessary to ensure that the new energy installations can be financed over a period of time, for example. 7-8 years, after which the future gain can be incorporated into the total energy bill from day one so that the amount of availability in the household concerned is increased. In this way, it will also make a positive fiscal contribution. The owner of the new energy plant will be able to look forward, after the repayment period, to a much better economy in the house because of the new and better energy plant, and thus it will also in itself be an improvement in the property value of the house, where everything else will be more easily converted if the owner wishes to sell. We have not determined what such a pool of loans we are proposing should be, we believe that this is an issue that can be considered in relation to the annual decisions of the Finance Act, but the idea is that a pool should be set aside each year until the need is met. The success criterion for the scheme is that the system is being used and that the Treasury does not suffer any losses, and it is, as I have said before, a precondition for us that the system is financially resting in itself. I would like to say straight away that we in the Danish People's Party do not believe that the state should act as a bank, but the reality is that Denmark has an extraordinary challenge on this point, both in terms of revitalizing the sparsely populated parts of Denmark and in terms of reducing unnecessarily high energy consumption, combined with the fact that many citizens in the outskirts find it difficult to obtain funding in a traditional way through mortgage institutions and financial institutions. That is why we think it makes good sense to put forward a proposal that we have made here. I would like to thank the parties of the Folketing for an excellent debate. I cannot, of course, thank you for your support, but I can at least thank you for agreeing that we have a problem that we need to address and find a solution where all the parties in the Folketing have at least expressed their recognition of the problem and that they are willing to see what solutions could be made for it. I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party have seen this as a problem for which we have set a solution, but it is not crucial for us that this solution is one so I would just like to say, in conclusion, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505165847	Thank you, Mr President, to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mikkel Dencker. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building and, if no one objects, it has been adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505165906	The debate is open. And the first speaker is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505165932	Thank you. I would like to thank the SF for the proposal. I should like to begin by stating that the government cannot support the proposal put forward. At the same time, however, I would like to acknowledge that the SF proposal addresses an important point on which we already have a strong focus on the part of the government. The proposal is about how we ensure that the number of break-ins in Danish homes is reduced, while at the same time facilitating police clearance work after break-ins. And the SF proposes that the government introduce new requirements for theft protection in the construction of housing; that the Marscandiser Act be tightened; and that it be made possible to use decoys so that it is possible to track home after theft in a private home. In the motion for a resolution, the SF points to the experience of the Netherlands, where a reduction in the number of break-ins has been achieved, among other things. to introduce requirements for burglary protection of windows and doors in new buildings. As a result, they have put forward the proposal for requirements on the prevention of theft in the construction of new dwellings. SF is right that it is not satisfactory that we have so many break-ins in Denmark. However, the government does not believe that we should simply introduce the same requirements for burglary protection of windows and doors into the building regulations as they do in the Netherlands. The reason for this is, among other things, that there may be many consequences in introducing requirements for burglar protection • consequences that we do not yet know enough about. It is known, for example. not how a requirement for burglary protection of new buildings and for the replacement of windows affects the ability to comply with the building regulations' energy efficiency and fire safety requirements. At the same time, the Dutch solution has been developed for a different market and a different building culture. If we directly take over the Dutch solution, it will mean that we will have to change the architecture in Denmark. A requirement for burglar protection of windows and doors can have consequences for how they can be designed, and therefore also for the consumer's ability to choose the products they want. It must also be possible in future to choose wood windows and windows with sprosses, for which there is a tradition in Denmark. The government also takes the basic view that each homeowner should be able to choose how to secure his home from forced entry. If this can be done in a different way than by replacing e.g. windows or doors, should be possible. Finally, I would also like to stress that the government does not want to introduce specific Danish rules on burglary protection, which can distort competition and increase costs. Therefore, existing European solutions need to be examined and assessed in a Danish context. All this leads me to conclude that there is a need for more knowledge about which measures are most effective in Denmark before, for example, we. introduce specific requirements into the building regulations. The government has already started a work which is intended to identify which measures have the best effect in Denmark in terms of helping to reduce the burglary rate. In concrete terms, I, together with the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs, have launched a major project, which includes: includes an initial analysis of the impact of the inclusion of requirements in the building regulations on construction. For the Dutch experience of reducing the number of break-ins, the project is, of course, part of the project, as well as looking at existing European standards on burglary protection. I would also like to stress that there are already windows and doors on the Danish market that can protect against forced entry, and the owner of the home already has the opportunity to choose the products for his home today. And, of course, it is important for homeowners to know about the solutions, so I will launch an information campaign to ensure that consumers are aware of the opportunities available on the market. I would also like to ensure that the instructions on burglary protection already included in the building regulations are extended; this will already be done in the future building regulations BR15, which will enter into force at the turn of the year. With regard to paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution on the tightening of the Marskandiser Act, the proposers believe that it is too easy to get rid of stolen goods from burglars. The Act on trade in second-hand goods and pawn-borrowing activities, also known as the Marskandiser Act, are the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice has stated that the Ministry of Justice is aware that the Marscandiser Act, which was originally from 1966, came into being at a time when the technological possibilities were quite different from today, and among other things. Against this background, consideration is given to the revision of the law in the ongoing prioritising of cases in the Ministry of Justice's field. At this stage, the Minister of Justice cannot say any more about when a possible legislative proposal following up on such a review could be expected to be put forward in the Folketing. The Minister for Justice has also stated that she therefore does not consider it appropriate at this stage to decide which parts of the law may be subject to review. With regard to paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution on the organization of police action against, inter alia, police forces. burglary in private homes, it is an area which, as you know, is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. And the Minister for Justice has informed me that there is a good development in terms of reducing the number of break-ins in private homes. In 2014, 36,841 private residence burglary reviews were submitted, and this is a 12.1% decrease. in relation to 2013. It is the lowest number of reviews since 2007. So there are numbers that indicate that we already have some of what works. The Minister for Justice has also asked me to inform her that she considers it natural to hold a discussion with Parliament's parties on police action in the field of burglary when the agreement on the police and prosecutor's finances is to be renegotiated in the autumn. If the proposers are of the opinion that funds should be set aside for specific efforts or priorities, it would be the right place to take the discussion. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for the proposal. I hope that today's discussions make it clear that when the government does not support the SF's proposal, it is not because we disagree with the need to reduce the number of break-ins in Denmark. We would like to do so, but we do not think that at this stage we know enough about what works best in a Danish context and what consequences, for example. requirements for burglary of windows and doors will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170519	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170525	I think it is depressing that the government will continue the course in which we still have a very, very high number of break-ins here in Denmark. In fact, there are some countries, including the Netherlands, which have developed some models that seem to work and have a really great effect. You could have started by looking at what you can do. It seems to me that this initial analysis has lasted a very, very long time, so it would be nice if we could get an estimate of when it will come. I would then like to see a more fundamental view of what the difference is actually to impose environmental requirements and energy efficiency requirements and to impose requirements on the prevention of unauthorised use. In other words, if we are to follow the Minister's thinking, both are expensive and ought to be something that is up to the individual homeowner to decide. But this is not the way we have chosen to do it in Denmark, so can the Minister not confirm that, if we politically wish to do so, we can also make demands on the prevention of theft? In fact, there are studies that show that it will not cost anything significant for homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170626	Thank you. We're in the middle of something like this. to look at the Dutch experience which, as we can see at first, extends beyond just passive protection through stronger windows and such things. Other efforts are also being made to reduce the number of break-ins in the Netherlands. I do not think it can be said that we want to continue a course where there are too many break-ins. As I said, there has been a fall of 12%. in the number of break-ins just between last and last year, so we are certainly in the process of reducing the number of break-ins via a large number of actions that are not in my resort. I don't have a precise time at which the work between the Ministry of City, Housing and Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building will be completed when we finish our inquiries. It is a piece of work that has already been set in motion more than a quarter ago, and it is not, of course, because we have set a very fixed time limit for when it is finished. I can't tell you that right now. As far as the question is concerned, for example. If we are able to impose climate requirements on windows, then we have together some national energy targets, such as: to be achieved through people's homes. Thefts are unevenly distributed and not all contribute to national statistics; there are also places in the country where there is virtually no break-in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170742	Thank you. Then there is one more brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170747	But I think that is precisely the problem: we are waiting and waiting for something to happen. After all, it is now a while since the government has set a job in motion, and it does not seem as if you are eager to move forward in it. It's fine that the number of break-ins has dropped by 12%, but imagine if we could make it fall by 50%. Like in the Netherlands. That's why I think we should move on along this road. And, frankly, I do not think that the Minister has been given very good prominence, why environmental requirements and energy requirements should be imposed, which should in fact also be the responsibility of each individual, but not the duty to prevent theft.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170827	I can explain carefully why it is an advantage for our overall climate accounting that we make demands on building components. It is a very large part of our energy used in buildings and a very large part is used in old buildings and, of course, through component requirements, we hope to be able to reduce the country's CO2 as a whole. of an skylight window to be set up at Christiansborg, of course, cannot contribute to further burglary security than the guards we already have. This would, if you may say so, be an increase which would not produce an additional result. That is not the case, for example. climate-proofer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170900	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. There are no more comments. Then that is the first rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Karsten Nonbo from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505170917	Thank you. With all due respect to the Minister for Climate and Energy, whom I know is good in his area, I am a little surprised that we are going to have to discuss break-ins with the Minister for Climate and Energy, when by far most of it falls under the Ministry of Justice, but that is clearly the government's priority. It may be said that it is because when you come home after a break-in, there is cold weather and it is windy, but that is the only reason I can see why we are discussing it with the Minister for Climate and Energy. But the Minister for Climate and Energy cannot do that because he has just shown his goodwill, I am sure. The proposal we are discussing here from the SF is exciting. It's exciting in a number of ways. It is exciting in the positive way because it is something we agree to bring down as much as possible. We need to prevent burglary, we need to solve burglary, and we need to execute burglary sentences. But it is also exciting in a different way, because what exactly does it contain? I can have some doubts about that, too. With regard to the prevention of theft in the construction of new homes, I would say that with the turnover and durability of housing, it will be a very long process if it is only for new homes. That is why I want to promote the Left's housing job scheme, which allows people to use labour, to deduct hourly wages, and also to ensure that older homes are better protected by theft. Just what the Minister for Climate and Energy calls the climate screen, I would call it the burglary screen, so that it is not possible to intrude in a short time. So there's probably more housing jobs that can speed it up. Then there is, like the second tightening of the Marskandiser Act, and I will certainly not hold up the Minister for Climate and Energy on that. Actually, I don't want to keep anyone up because it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it's never used. So it doesn't really matter if you spend 5 or 30 days. I mean, the cops don't come out looking for old things in marshmallows. First of all, we need to get the 200 of the ACT cars away from all the guarding tasks, and I think that if we do a statistic on how many times you've been out looking for stolen things, it's equal to zero. But then the question is also, if you did it, how much it would have helped, because I think that at least those who are aliens disappear with things very, very quickly out of the country, or it gets melted down when you go for gold and silver jewelry, and then finally there is also the fact that unfortunately there is not quite any control of that kind of thing among those who get them stolen. So I would like to encourage people who want their stuff back... it's also a way to solve cases... to be better at registering what you have, and be better at getting it wanted... so that when the police on the way stand with this perpetrator, where it's quite obvious that the object has pulled out of a wall or has been picked up somewhere, they immediately find it wanted. So there are many other ways to deal with it, so that you get the cost reviewed. Then there's finally the third thing with decoys. That is, as far as I can understand in SF's proposal, tracking devices that will be given permission by the police to make stolen goods. I believe that that opportunity is already there today with the citizens, and they are very well frustrated when they have some thing that beeps and that has been stolen, that the police, when they call them, do not have time to come. Finally, I would like to ask SF: if they came, they would have to kick in the door, for example. up in Sandholm camp? I think that we have plenty of examples of people standing outside saying that it is from in there, it beeps. So it would be good if we could have a debate on the possibilities of searching the places where the costs are already before we create more frustrated victims who stand in front of their stolen goods with a wall in between and are advised not to go in and pick them up, and where the police do not have time to get in there either. So maybe that was a way to get the debate lifted. On Thursday we have a number of motions for resolutions from the opposition on how we could possibly behave in relation to perpetrators, including foreigners, but we will come back to that on Thursday, so I will not hold the Minister for Climate and Energy particularly responsible in those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171426	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171432	A housing job scheme must be able to solve this problem, it is said. Well, I don't mind making demands on theft insurance in order to be able to make use of the housing job scheme it will only help in the right direction. However, the rapporteur of the Left does not think it is a problem that we have such a high burglary rate and that the Crime Prevention Council actually points out that we are too bad to protect our houses and put the extra things in our doors that make them harder to break up, or put some extra hasps on the windows, etc.? That is actually what this proposal points to. I understand this is a long-term plan, but it's the Left's plan for the housing job scheme. So can't the Left understand that this could be a way to phase it in if it was said that all new construction and all major conversions should be theft-proof? This is done in the Netherlands, and it is done in England, where there is a requirement that it should take at least three minutes to break into a house, and that is because there is a great likelihood that the burglar will actually abandon his undertaking in the meantime.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171538	But I fully agree that new houses are a long-term investment, but the housing job scheme is not. It only requires a new government, then there will be a housing job scheme that can contain just that, that craftsmen who come out and provide a better accommodation, so that it just takes longer to break in, can actually do it quite quickly, and then it can be done more efficiently. So we totally agree with SF that this needs to be resolved, but we just want to solve it immediately and not over the time it takes to write off homes and build new ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171614	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171617	I just don't see that the Left's proposal solves this much faster. Why not do both? Maybe we'd come home sooner. After all, there are many who opt out of using a housing job scheme, because there they must have money out of their pocket right away. If you do it as part of a new building, this is basically not something you can feel, and there'll be a greater tendency to choose these materials when it's actually a legal requirement. And we are actually producing them already in Denmark, but they are not being sold here. We sell them to England, we sell them to Holland. I think that is a problem. And what does the rapporteur say to that, if I now tell you that I have not invented this proposal for the Marskandiser Act myself, but I have received it from the police who are asking for it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171701	Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171705	As far as the latter is concerned, it must have been from when the police lacked something to do. I guess there's plenty to do without getting out, 'cause you're not gonna get there. But it is true that it will make the honest ones because they are probably the ones who are putting the most into practice in that way... being prevented from doing it in 5 days, but then having to do it in 30 days. However, many of the stolen goods will be sold if they are finally sold in markets, in private flea markets and in larger pedestal markets and not through a marsh sandiser. With regard to new construction, I would say that it is going to be too slow and therefore it is better to have a housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171745	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505171753	Thank you. The number of break-ins is falling massively, and this is positive, because it means that fewer Danes experience coming home to a home that is ripped off of values, and fewer Danes experience the insecurity and discomfort associated with it when the thief has been visiting • not just for the moment, but long after. So it's positive that the number of break-ins is dropping. But our efforts will not stop there. We want even fewer. We want far fewer Danes to fall victim to the totally unacceptable behaviour of criminals. That is why we have strengthened the police's efforts with a much more targeted police force, which is why we have launched attempts to burglary, among other things. Doors and windows, because there is no doubt that better protection of the Danes' doors and windows is important when the thieves are to be kept away. In the same way, I think it's important that we focus on how to advertise your values... putting pictures of your design furniture online, you write on an open Facebook account that you have been taken on charter holiday for the next few weeks, and that there is therefore free access for burglars? There are several places where common sense can make a big difference in terms of getting the number of break-ins down, just as tracking tools in the form of marking identification have also become part of police working tools. So it is certainly not because there is no focus on any further fight against forced entry by the government and hence the Social Democrats. If new methods are to be introduced, new proposals are to be thought of quite differently from what we have seen in the past, we are also very much in favour of this. However, the proposal we are discussing here today cannot be supported. After all, burglar safety tests have already been started and, when the results are available, the intention is to look at the spread to the rest of the country. These tests must be carried out in close cooperation with relevant stakeholders, and they must ensure that there are products on the Danish market that do not make it significantly more expensive in terms of prices • not significantly more expensive to meet the requirements that we Social Democrats would like to impose on doors and windows. And precisely the last part that concerns the economy is missing from the consideration given to the proposal we are discussing here today. In relation to the part that is about decoys, it is not quite clear to us what the SF really means. It is already possible to use such a method today, among other things, when it comes to the theft of mobile phones, although I doubt that this is the best way to solve burglary. Because do you really have to make a cottage or another home so attractive to thieves? Maybe some people are tempted to break into the house. So I don't think that's so appropriate. Let me repeat, so that no one is in any doubt about the position of the Socialists in this area: we want the number of break-ins even further down, and that is why we have launched initiatives both to improve the security of households and to strengthen police action. And our efforts will not stop here, because we will continue to fight against the totally unacceptable thefts that are taking place in Denmark. Against this background, I must inform you that we Socialists do not support the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172149	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172155	Well, I am actually surprised that the Socialists are not more positive about this because, as I remember and can read me about, it was Mrs Trine Bramsen himself who was out with exactly this proposal and wanted to set up an experimental system of legal requirements. I haven't seen that experimental scheme anywhere. And Mrs Trine Bramssen went out precisely because there was a report that showed that this was not going to be more expensive. So where did all the Social Democrats go? I agree with Mrs Trine Bramsen that we need fewer break-ins, but why has this been refused?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172233	It is quite true that we Social Democrats want fewer break-ins. It's quite true that we're looking positively at burglar protection as part of this solution. This was also the reason why, when a report was produced that documented the experience of the Netherlands, we hurried to ask for similar tests to be started in Denmark, so that we can test which types of security it makes sense to make demands on and what it means for the price formation on windows and doors, for example. So it is precisely because we are positive about increasing the use of burglar protection that we have initiated this attempt, otherwise we would have failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172313	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172316	I just do not see how the minimum minimum testing scheme proposed by Mrs Trine Bramsen has been put in place when she was out of this proposal. I just do not see that this is quite the same as what Mrs Trine Bramsen said at the time, and that is why I just want to learn a little bit more why this proposal has been abandoned, which seems to have solid evidence, which also led to an interest in this proposal. The reason I have put forward this proposal is that I can see that nothing really has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172352	Well, I do not agree that nothing has happened, because that is simply not true. After all, a team of stakeholders has just been set up to ensure that trials are carried out on this, and from what I have heard, they are very far in the work and ready to roll a plan off where this is going to be tested, during which periods, etc. It is therefore the clear position of the Socialists that these tests must be carried out. We need to find out what this has to do with the Danes' windows and doors and the economy behind changing them. After all, these are the demands we are making on new buildings and renovations, and we need to find out what effect it has at all, and we are actually ready to roll it out to the rest of the country. But I think it is fair enough to test what the best solutions are before introducing the legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172438	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172443	This is an interesting debate. I understand that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is asking questions, because I also have my doubts about how much the trials are running and who is involved in them and who is doing what. I have the impression that it is being shot in all directions. Because I am here with a quote from Mrs Trine Bramsen from a time in February, where she says that you can also use the artisan allowance, that you could make a burglary allowance. It was supposed to work like the craftsman's allowance. It could be a model where, for a period of time, it was said that we are doing a lot in Denmark, and we are making it really attractive for people to secure their accommodation. And then you have to be able to subtract it from, for example. within the next two years, she says. How are those thoughts coming along, I'm just gonna ask you in all humility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172533	Well, it's true that it's a quote from me. You just have to remember to bring the year with you when you quote, because I think it's at least 11⁄2 years old. But it is true that I would like to see financial incentives given to this, but it is clear that the funding must be in place. It has to be the case that you point out where this money for an experiment like this is supposed to come from. We have therefore chosen to do this because I am not the only one who decides, in cooperation with Radicals, to initiate these tests, which test how to get the best requirements for doors and windows; what it has to do with the doors and windows that enter the Danish market; and how to put a system together in order to ensure the best possible results. And I don't have the money for a deduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172622	Sir. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172626	Well, Mrs Trine Bramsen is always right, and I apologise that it is not from this year, but from last year. This means that Mrs Trine Bramssen has actually had better time to deal with it, and nothing has yet been done as I see it. Mrs Trine Bramsen also says that it should be discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I have cross-checked my legal rapporteur, Karsten Lauritzen, and he doesn't remember that debate. But in the Left we are ready to take that debate if that is the way the government will help us get it under the housing job scheme. So let us agree that we are doing something in this area for the benefit of the citizens who are burglarized. So we're eagerly waiting for us to do something similar to the housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172710	The rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172714	I feel that when we discuss politics here in the Folketing, we must also have a space where we can turn good thoughts and ideas. And I understand that this thought I remember was the first one to put forward it has been taken over by several other parties. So it is good that I too can contribute to the political development of other parties. If I had a money tree in the backyard and if the Minister for Finance had a money tree in the backyard, then I am sure it would also give another incentive to set fire to such a scheme. Now the money has been spent elsewhere, where it contributes to more jobs. I think that is a reasonable priority. But I still want to say that it is simply not true that this has been pickled. We have just launched this experimental project to ensure that it will not be significantly more expensive to be a Dane. I thought that was something the Left was in favour of; I have understood this in the Slogans of the Left and so we have a good basis to make demands on the Danes' doors and windows. I think that is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172814	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505172822	Thank you for that, President. Burglar alarms, camera surveillance and now burglar doors and windows, and the next will be a high fence around the house and a snappy dog in the garden. This is a sad development, but I can now easily follow the authors of the motion for a resolution that we are a sought-after country in terms of burglary. We would also like to take a look at this. Of course, we have to do something to prevent burglars from entering our home. Of course. And many homeowners do a lot of things about it and try to make their lives miserable for thieves. It also makes sense to install windows and doors that are burglar-proof. We just need to do it not through coercion and laws, but with information and information. Fortunately, I could also hear from the Minister for Climate and Energy that he will launch a campaign to inform citizens about the opportunities for this. We are very pleased about this, because we must never go out there where it is suddenly the homeowner's own fault that he is being robbed because he has not installed alarms or the right windows, and in which he may also be in the situation that the insurance company will no longer insure his accommodation. It is still the burglar who has committed something criminal, even if it has been a little too easy to force himself into a home. The Danish People's Party believes that there are interesting things in the motion for a resolution, and we would also very much like to participate in the committee's discussions on tightening up the Marskandiser Act. We would also like to help fight pickpockets and trick thieves in cities, and we would therefore like to help to see whether the use of decoys in mobile phones, for example, can help the police find the thieves. Denmark is an overly attractive country to make crime in, and we must take that seriously. In the Danish People's Party, we fear that the lack of police resources around the country will cause crime to explode over the summer. The clearing rate is too low. I have an article from the Sunday newspaper of 17 August 2014, which says that 81 per cent. of all break-ins in Denmark are not solved. That is simply not good enough. The prison stays, as we have said before, are not a deterrent either. These are things that the Danish People's Party considers to be much more problematic and something that the government should manage. As long as the thieves know that the chance of being caught is relatively small, while the penalty does not deter them, Denmark will always be attractive. In order to prevent this, we believe that we should look at police resources locally and that the detection rate should increase, and not least the Danish People's Party believes that border controls should be re-established and thus the one established by the previous government together with the Danish People's Party. However, as I said, we are positive about some of the proposals contained in this resolution. We hope that we will have a good discussion on paragraphs 2 and 3 at least. We cannot agree with the requirements for the windows, but we find the other two points very interesting. I still hope that we will discuss this in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and that it will not be in the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173207	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one had brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173215	Someone forgot his speech up here, but I won't read it. So I read my own instead. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will be very brief because I fully share the view of the Minister and also of the Socialist rapporteur. I think this is a very sympathetic proposal from the SF, which we will certainly not reject in the long term, but here and now there are a number of things that we need to examine in more detail. This applies, for example, to how much more expensive it would be if special requirements were made for burglar-proof doors and windows. If I know SF right, SF also has an interest in getting smarter on this issue. It's expensive to build a house in advance, so it's worth considering carefully. Let us be pleased that the efforts which, among other things, are being made. SF has also helped to set in motion where the police have a special focus on breaking and entering, as it seems to have a good effect. The basket is broken, we are still high in relation to our neighbouring countries, etc., but the number of break-ins here in Denmark has fortunately decreased significantly over the last few years. That is very good, and I hope it will continue, because of course we need to go further down, and there may be some relevance to the elements that the authors of this proposal. But in the first place we would like to be able to examine them a little more closely before we strike and, as the Minister has said, we are, fortunately, also in the process of uncovering a number of these proposals. We would like to wait for this in the first place and see what the pilot projects might lead to before we, like finally, take a position on this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173355	There are no brief comments here either, so we will continue in the course of the speech. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173403	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for the proposal. I can reveal that for Enhedslisten the word decoys was a new concept, but not a new concept, and that is certainly something we can support. These are good proposals and, in particular, the proposal to make requirements for better burglary protection of new buildings can be supported by Enhedslisten. I would say that we are probably not sure that tightening the law on marshals is the most relevant measure to try to complicate the sale of stolen goods, if you can put it that way. After all, a problem of forced entry, which is not addressed in this proposal, is that thieves are often driven out of Denmark and marketed in other countries, and this is also happening very, very quickly, and indeed as a natural result of the Schengen rules which provide open borders within Schengen. It is not always the case that the stolen goods are being disposed of in this country, and if we are to make an even better effort than has been proposed here, we must, in the view of the Enhedslisten, be given more opportunity to create border controls. But we support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173528	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173541	Thank you. It is, of course, a very relevant debate that the SF takes up in relation to what one can do to ensure that there are not so many thefts. Despite the fact that it has fallen a little lately, the rate of burglary in this country is unfortunately still very high. There may be a number of reasons for this and there may be various solutions for it. First of all, our starting point in the Liberal Alliance is that the risk of detection is too small, and we think that is something we should do something about, and one could do that by reprioritising the work of the police. But I understand from the police conciliation parties that this is something that is very difficult to change because one obviously has a very definite idea of what the police should spend their time on. We think that the police should spend more time solving more citizen-closer crime, including burglary. As regards the three specific proposals put forward by the SF, the overall consideration of whether it is always wise to make pool proposals can be considered first of all, since it can increase or reduce the likelihood of the proposal being promoted. In relation to the requirement for theft protection in the construction of new dwellings, we are not immediately in favour of imposing these additional requirements. Nor are we positive about paragraph 2, namely the tightening of the Marscandi law, but we are actually positive about paragraph 3, which is the use of so-called baits. I think we have also made that public in the past, so I can avoid having similar questions that Mrs Trine Bramsen received from the SF rapporteur, because unlike the Socialists, the Liberal Alliance will stand by our support for this particular part of the proposal, which we have also expressed in public. We are more sceptical about the other two elements, and overall it is possible to say '2-1' to 'no', and that is where we end up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is from the Conservative People's Party, sir. Mike Legarth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505173812	Thank you, Madam President. SF has made a proposal to reduce the number of break-ins in Denmark. After all, Denmark has a dull record in the European Union: by being the country that has the second most break-in, only surpassed by Greece. We want that record reduced. The record is a break-in every 15 minutes around the clock. After all, we in the Conservative People's Party have launched our own burglary package, and I would like to take this opportunity to explain it again. Because we want all citizens to be able to live safely and safely without risking break-ins and assaults, and to be sure that the police have the opportunity to react when you call them. Therefore, we would like to hire more police officers, many more police officers, and we would like to punish the criminals harder and faster. And, of course, we have pointed out in our financial bill and our 2020 plan, the long-term economic plan, that there is room for considerably more policemen. We've set aside 500 million. kr. to strengthen the police, to combat terrorism and to combat gangs and international crime, especially burglar crime. We want to raise the penalty for burglary, so that you can go straight to prison for that offence, and we want to give the police better opportunities to investigate both more and better opportunities. Then we will raise the penalty to 1 year's unconditional imprisonment for exceeding entry bans, so that we ensure that the criminal aliens stay away from Denmark. And we will lower the limit on when foreign criminals can be sent home, so far more foreign criminals can serve in their country of origin. Today the limit is six months. Last but not least, we will double the artisan allowance, and there you will be able to deduct burglar protection from whatever type of burglar protection it is. We think it is very much needed that some people do something more to protect themselves from burglary, and all related costs associated with it will be possible to obtain deductions for the way in which the housing job scheme, what we also call the artisan allowance, now works. SF now proposes that everyone in Denmark should be forced to burglary their homes by setting standard requirements for burglary protection in the building regulations. We are against this, because we do not think it is reasonable to impose all that expenditure. This is where you as an independent individual have the responsibility of ensuring that you are as well as possible. We do not think that people who do not believe that there is a risk of their being robbed should be forced into more expensive burglary protection by means of building regulations. And besides the fact that the SF's proposals will only to a very small extent deal with the problems of breaking into Denmark, we do not think this is the right way to go. It's preposterous, really. In addition, when it comes to the statements that come from the authors of the motion for a resolution on how the effect will be, I am very doubtful whether that is true. As far as the Marscandi law is concerned, there is already a requirement to be able to document the purchase and sale of used gold. This means that there should be leash in who decreases any stolen goods. And we are actually concerned that this will have an impact on the stores that sell and sell used gold and silver if the deadline is raised from 7 to 30 days. On the other hand, we have no difficulty in supporting the establishment of decoy houses, but we believe that it should already be possible to do these things today. We can do that, but in general terms we do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174203	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. The rapporteur has 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174213	Thank you. I can hear that there is only spotty support for this proposal, and that is really a pity, because unlike the Conservative rapporteur, who would like to spend more money on the police, so that it only comes in when the damage has been done, the SF is really concerned about how we avoid breaking and entering. In the Netherlands, burglar protection requirements have just been imposed. This is very sensible, and it has caused the number of break-ins to drop sharply, and there are also things that point to the fact that it does not cost extra to break-insafes, because when you start mass production of burglar doors and windows, the price falls, and therefore it does not actually cost extra. It is therefore a pity that we are not seemingly ready for an arrangement in Denmark yet. We already make a great many demands in our building regulations on how many rescue openings there should be, how much insulation there should be in the walls, that it should be possible to test pressure etc. This would be a perfectly reasonable requirement to make; then we could save a lot of homeowners a very unpleasant experience, as it is to come home and find your house stripped of all sorts of objects. I find it difficult to understand the Minister's concerns that it is necessary to take account of the fact that these windows and doors must also be energy efficient, that it must be architecture and design that suit Denmark. We produce these windows in Denmark, so that's not the big problem. And I think you put up a lot of fence stakes or barriers where there doesn't have to be anyone. We are also concerned about whether this is a distortion of competition and an increase in costs. Yes, it is hardly a distortion of competition, since both England and the Netherlands already have these requirements, and I know they are members of the European Union. I think it's fine that some things have been set in motion. It has been a year since the Social Democrats' rapporteur for the law had come to an end with exactly this proposal, which the SF has put forward, and there is still no solution to the challenges. I hope there will be, because frankly we need to do something about the number of break-ins in this country. We are at the top of Europe, it is a boring European record, and frankly I do not think we should keep it either. Then I would say in relation to the Marskandiser Act that it is actually not a proposal that I have pulled out of thin air that is an old man. In fact, it is because I have talked a lot with police people who are working hard on breaking and entering, and they want to tighten up the law on marshals for the purposes of the investigation. You only have the gold for seven days, and it may be a while before the police actually get on the trail of the perpetrator and of where the stolen goods might be. The police's own proposal was a tightening up to 30 days, which is why I also regret that no more people can see that it may be sensible to give the police a better investigative tool. It doesn't cost anything, but it can help the police. Compared to the decoys, it's not as crazy as it sounds. I know they're doing this in the United States. Mrs Trine Bramsen, who is the Socialist Legal Rapporteur, knows me and the SF very badly if she thinks that the purpose of this proposal should be to lure some people into doing something criminal that they would not have done in advance. This is about the fact that if you have a summer house area, which is particularly plagued by burglary, because for example. is designer furniture in the houses, or you have a marina where outboard engines are constantly stolen all the time, so you can put tracking elements in the things that are exposed to theft, so you get a faster shortcut to get the perpetrators busted. I think that's a really good idea. I understand that there will be no support for this proposal. I look forward to hearing that something is coming out of the government committee or whatever is going on. It's a little unclear to me where it's gonna lead. But I hope that the time will come for this proposal. I think this is the right way to go. Now I've been saying this for two years. I became ridiculous the very first time; after all, something has been set in motion in the government. And every time I mention this, there are cops calling me and saying, yes, yes, it's the right way to go, you just keep fighting. I will.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174641	But do not go down the platform yet, because there is one more brief remark. Sir. Karsten Nonbo, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174648	But I do not think that the rapporteur deserves to be ridiculed because of the proposal, because we all want to do the same. However, we would also like to do something that works, and as I said in my rapporteur's speech: windows and doors are secured by the housing job scheme, by voluntary rather than by coercion. But I would like to know about this third stick about the phone or what it is called: what will the rapporteur answer all those who are already frustrated and who say that they have tracked their mobile phone because there is a trace on it and it is somewhere inside the Sandholm camp? Should we just go in there? I think I have seen a certain sluggishness about that, which is why I want to know where SF is in that game. I believe that a place like Sandholm camp has public access... it's a larger institution... and I have to admit that if it was up to me, you just go in and get things, and if you can find them on some people, you aim them for theft.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174752	I would like to start by saying that, unlike the housing job scheme, which we do not know what effect will have on this, we have clear indications from the Netherlands that the model proposed by the SF, with legal requirements in this area, will actually work. So that's the big difference. As far as the Sandholm camp is concerned, I agree that it is problematic that we have not been able to go for the things we have been tracing out. But it's about the fact that when many people live in a small place, you can't just search every room unless the element you're looking for shows exactly where it is. So it's a matter of legal certainty; just as you wouldn't be able to take a whole apartment block and say: we think it's here and then search all the apartments. So it is not malicious will, but it is a common legal certainty, which I believe, after all, is also supported by the Left. But if you can trace very accurately that this is where the thing is, then you have to search.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174852	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174856	I would simply sign and then say that the Left goes in the direction that the SF wants to go because it is really good. I do not really believe that it requires a decision of this kind, because a private person can already put such a thing on his apparatus. What I fear is that you are left frustrated, as many do. But we can also do that in a police settlement by getting the right resources for the right places, so that more effort is made to get back the things that have been lost. So a receipt for it; we want to help move in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174937	Well, thank you for that. And then we have to see when the police settlement is to be negotiated, how far we get along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174941	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505174956	The debate is open. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175021	Thank you. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to ensure that former royally privileged inns continue to be able to use the closed royal crown in their logo and on their buildings, letter papers, websites, etc. I am obliged to point out a number of points which make it most inappropriate, to say the least, to open up a freer use of the closed royal crown. I will quote from a letter sent to the Committee on Culture by Niels G. Bartholdy, dated 13 April 2015. It has the headline: • The Danish Crown is a state hallmark. When I have chosen to quote from it, it is because it very clearly points to some issues that I think it is important to bring forward in the procedure and I quote: the motion for a resolution and its comments contain several errors. It speaks of, and I quote, royally privileged inns, as if they exist today. They don't, but there are inns who call themselves royally privileged. The last remains of the original phenomenon disappeared with the Hostage Act of May 10, 1912. Since then, no inn in Denmark has been associated with a royal privilege. There is no evidence that one of the inns in question in the past was allowed to use the closed royal crown. They have therefore not, as claimed in the comments, been allowed to use the closed royal crown on facade signs, letter papers, menu cards, etc. The so - called royally privileged inns have not, as claimed in the comments, a connection with the royal house. I plunge a little into the text and quote again: the inns whose owners today claim that their inns are royally privileged have not, as claimed in the remarks, used the royal crown for hundreds of years. The term royally privileged is misunderstood in modern times. A body rivilegium was issued to a person at the time, and each new innkeeper had to apply for confirmation of the privilege. The privilege was not passed on. With royal privilege it was thought that the innkeepers in question had received a personal state authorisation. It was the chrome duck who had a privilege, not the inn. Having said that, one might ask oneself what stands in the way of these inns being able to use the closed royal crown as a symbol today. Here I would like to quote from the same document sent to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, to which I referred earlier: the Crown is one of our most important symbols of state and is reserved for the royal family and the state. It symbolizes Danish sovereignty or sovereignty and is protected not only by Article 132 of the Penal Code but also by an international convention. Across the world, the Crown of the King has been notified as an independent Danish state character. And I would point out that what is here referred to internationally is Article 6c of the 1967 Paris Convention. This means that the Danish royal crown is a state characteristic and not a corporate logo. I think it is very important to distinguish between the two. This also means that the Danish crown of kings and now I am no longer quoting from Niels Bartholdy's paper can no longer be registered as a trademark or similar in countries which have acceded to the Paris Convention. In Denmark, the crown is protected by section 132 of the Criminal Code. It follows that the use of characteristics or other features reserved for the Danish or other States entails a penalty. One of the reasons for protecting the crown as a state feature is that it must be immediately apparent that a person or institution exercising authority represents the State. The reproduction of the crown is thus found among other things. in official letters, uniforms and vehicles used by the State authorities. Paragraph 132 of the Criminal Code is intended to ensure that citizens are not exposed to the appearance by private persons or undertakings of one or other nature as representing the State. The crown is thus connected both internally and externally with the Danish state. It is recognised and, through countless generations, incorporated as the special characteristics of the state. The inns referred to in the motion for a resolution today have no connection with the state and therefore it does not make sense to allow them to use the special characteristics of the state. Since the 1920s, the state has taken action against improper use of the crown. The treatment of State characteristics, including the crown, has been the responsibility of the Prime Minister, since the Ministry of the Interior and from 1985 the Ministry of Culture, specifically the National Archives. In recent years, the National Archives have informed the inns directly and through their trade organisation of the rules in force. The practice of the National Archives is, moreover, that royal crowns, which from ancient times sit in masonry or in other ways are nailproof due to the fact that an inn has previously been royally privileged, can be regarded as a cultural memory. These crowns need not be removed if they date from before 1912. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175603	Thank you, Minister. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. First, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175611	Thank you. Nobody disputes the fact that the royally privileged inns no longer exist, but after all there are a number of taverns who call themselves that. This is the same as the Radical Left calling itself social liberals, knowing that the party is no longer social liberal. It should not prevent anyone from calling themselves what they want. That's one. The second is: You can take a legal angle or you can take a cultural historical angle. The Minister is based on a legal party's contribution, which we have also read. As far as we are concerned in the Danish People's Party, this is about cultural history. The first royally privileged inn is back from 198. It's almost a thousand years old tradition we're dealing with here. It will then be worth preserving, and that is why we say: Let us then find some sort of solution to section 132 of the Penal Code, so that the National Archives does not with fire and fire go out and try to scare these royally privileged inns into giving up using the closed crown. So my question is: will the Minister really not help to find a solution for these ancient historical inns that wave their loyal faithfulness to the crown of kings?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175743	Well, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has completely misunderstood things. After all, this is about the fact that there is a special characteristic of the state and government in the service of the state, and that is the closed royal crown. For my sake, all inns can call themselves royally privileged, they may, but they cannot be allowed to use the special icon, as it is called, a special heraldic brand like the closed royal crown. It would be quite strange if, in 2015, we were to give some inns a special position, a special right to use a special trade mark, which is not a trade mark, but a state mark. And other inns can't get it because they're not from the 1100s, where it wasn't the inn that was privileged, but where there was the innkeeper who got a state authorization of the king to sell, for example. spirits at the place in question. It wasn't the inn that got it, it was the innkeeper, so if we're finally going to take the cultural history, let's take the right story and not a picture of something that actually never was history.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175858	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175901	I just have to say that the Minister has misunderstood the motion for a resolution. For us, this is not about state characteristics and lawyers. It's about giving these taverns the opportunity to use the closed royal crown. The postal service, which has been privatised, also uses the closed royal crown. So we're gonna take the royal crown from the post office, too? That must be the next question that can be asked to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175932	It's gonna be sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has to put me in writing. I'll have to look at that in writing. There are no plans to take the closed royal crown from the post office. That would have happened a long time ago. It is still the case that an administrative task is carried out via the postal service, regardless of who has Post Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505175959	The next question is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180004	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed when I hear the Minister for Culture trying to run this over into some technical answer. Because this is about common sense. We have approx. 100 Danish inns, who for centuries have called themselves royally privileged inns, and who have used the royal crown. Some of them have been doing this for nearly 400 years. Then it is quite true that there was a law in 1912 that made them actually not allowed to do so anymore. But that law has never really been enforced. It is only recently that they have suddenly been threatened with heavy fines and threatened with simply taking them to court if they do not pay the huge fines and remove the royal crown. After all, it is against common sense that these over 100 Danish inns who use it as part of their cultural heritage should not use it anymore. Then the Minister's answer is that it is to protect the king's crown, so that there is no doubt about things, and you mention all this with the technical. So let me just ask a specific question: what authority does Danish bakery stores provide when they may be allowed to use the royal crown?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180114	Nor can Danish bakery stores do so simply. If you are to be a royal court supplier and thus have permission to do so, it is the Queen who grants it. You can do so for five years, and it will be reviewed again. And it's not the Folketing, it's up to us to do this kind of thing. In fact, I do not think this is a technique, and I am very surprised that an excellent bourgeois party like the Left takes the position that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen expresses himself here and calls it pure technique; we have a Paris Convention which has made it clear that what is the hallmark of the Danish state is the closed crown of kings and that it must be respected by other countries. That is an expression of sovereignty. I simply do not understand that this will be a matter for discussion in the Folketing. This is so well-informed, and there are no so-called privileged inns that have ever been able to use the royal crown. It has never been allowed either in the 1100s.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180223	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180226	It's a rather funny answer, I get from the minister that Danish bakery stores are not allowed to use the closed royal crown, because on their own organization's website, Baker and Conditorstre in Denmark, they actually write that they have been allowed to use the closed royal crown • not to be a royal court supplier or anything else, no, they have been allowed to use the closed royal crown. So the answers given to us by the Minister for Culture are certainly not consistent if you ask the baker's own organization. That's why it's so far away from common sense. And that is also why, in the powerlessness of the Minister, we are not going to either stop the National Archives from granting these fines, so that we can call it the cultural heritage, which it really is, or at least look at the derogations, instead of having to table this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180313	Well, I would like to examine the use of the closed royal crown by the bakery, and then I would like to give a written briefing to the Committee on Culture. So I would say, as far as the National Archives is concerned, that it has been passed on from the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Culture, and it is carried out in practice by the National Archives, and it has done so since the 1980s. In the mid-1920s, the law of 1912 began to be enforced, and this has been done ever since, and continues to be done. And that's section 132 of the Criminal Code, that's all about. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen says that I should make a waiver from the penal code paragraphs 132 to 100 so-called privileged inns in Denmark, which will then receive a new trademark that they have never had. If sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen can provide just the hint of evidence that they have had the right to use the closed royal crown at any time since the 1100s, I would be very grateful for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180424	Thank you, Minister. We begin with the rapporteur's speeches, and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180441	Thank you. As I said in my question to the Minister for Culture, this is a question of common sense. We have about a hundred Danish inns scattered around the country • many of them in what you would call Udkantsdanmark • who as part of their cultural heritage have prided themselves on being royally privileged inns, because at some point they were part of their history, it is part of their soul that they were thus royally privileged inns. That's what they used in their marketing. They have used that to explain what it is that makes their inn unique. It was then forbidden to use the king's crown from 1912 onward, and so it can be said: Why are we taking hold of such an old law now? But the problem is that what has happened from 1912 until today is that the law has not really been enforced. There have been seven cases since 1912 where one has been after some of these different royal crowns offenders only seven just up until a short time ago, where there were some in the National Archives who must have far too little to do, who started threatening a large number of these inns with huge fines, with orders that if they didn't remove these inn signs, many of which are actually set up on top-peaceed inn buildings around the country, and removed them from all their marketing, whether it was websites, whether it was menu cards or whatever, they would be taken to court. I think it's absurd. First of all, I think it is an absurd abuse of the time and forces of the public sector, but I also think it is absurd because it goes in and removes some of what is Denmark's history. The Danish inns are such an integral part of the Denmark we know and part of the Denmark we would like to sell, not only to our own population, but indeed also for tourist purposes. All you're saying is, OK, we're gonna take that away with a stroke of the pen. I find that sad. I think it is particularly sad about the whole rhetoric that we should now do oh so much to protect the royal crown, and that one could apparently get into doubt if one goes to a tavern in Denmark, whether it should be some department of a state office, because they use a royal crown. I find that difficult to follow, Minister for Culture. But okay, let's just hold on to that rhetoric. Well, that's quite right, then. Alex Ahrendtsen: What about Post Danmark, who is privatised? And what about the bakery masters, as on their own website you can see that by a simple Google search for Danish bakery masters and confectioners write that they are allowed to use a closed royal crown. Then I don't understand. Then I find it difficult as a cultural rapporteur to defend that it should be more legitimate for a bakery business to use a closed royal crown when an inn, which may sometimes have used it for 400 years, cannot be allowed. Then common sense disappears. When common sense disappears, we are forced to step in. Then we will have to say: okay, if the Minister for Culture does not want to look at a system of derogations and if the Minister for Culture will not stop the people in the National Archives who really must have too little to do, then we must step in. And that is why we have this resolution. So you actually have to see it as the impotence proposal it really is. Because we were hoping that common sense would win, but it did not, and that is why we are now doing it. With those words, I can say that the Left strongly supports the motion for a resolution. We ourselves are co-sponsors of it, and I am going on behalf of both Mr. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party and Mrs Mette Bock of the Liberal Alliance say that, unfortunately, they could not be here, but that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180849	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is true that the resolution was tabled by both the Danish People's Party, the Left, and the Conservative People's Party. The next speaker is Troels Ravn as rapporteur for the Socialists
ParlaMint-DK_20150505180902	I must point out that I am also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left. The proposal here in itself is a sympathetic effort to do something good for the historical inns. I should also like to say at the outset that I have expressed my support for the fact that these inns should be allowed to use this logo, but I must also say that in the context of the legislative work in preparation for B 124, I have become wiser. We must, of course, put things right. The Crown is one of our most important symbols of the state and is reserved for the royal family and the state, and it symbolises that sovereignty or sovereignty and is protected not only by Article 132 of the Penal Code but also by an international convention. Across the world, the Crown of the King has been notified as an independent Danish state character, and it is therefore important that the Crown of the King is an expression of identity and is a tradition-rich testimony to the state form, and therefore there should also be respect for the Crown of the King. The Danish royal crown is a state character and not a corporate logo As far as cultural heritage and common sense are concerned, the inns in question could use an entirely open crown without difficulty.It could be a good solution to this situation, because an open crown cannot be confused with the closed crown of the king. So this is about us getting things sorted out in relation to the legislation that is in the area, also because it is disorderly that some restaurants, some inns could be royally privileged and others could not be. One could also imagine the situation that Burger King, McDonald's, who knows I bought such a royally privileged inn and so could call himself royally privileged. So there are some elements, some angles on this matter that make me totally believe that we should get things straight. That is why neither the Radical Left nor the Socialists can support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181136	There are two inscriptions for short remarks. The first is sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181143	I must admit that I am disappointed that the Socialist rapporteur has changed his attitude to what the rapporteur said to the Jyllands-Posten, namely that we should safeguard the cultural heritage and that we should look at whether there could be no arrangement so that these closed royal crowns could still be used. And I must admit that I believe that the scenario of McDonald's or other fast-food establishments buying old inn buildings up to call themselves royally privileged inns is worthy of a science fiction world. At least I don't think that's the reality. But I just have a very, very simple question, and that is: Why should bakery stores be allowed to use the closed royal crown, if it is so important to safeguard it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181226	But as the Minister for Culture also pointed out, there is no evidence that the bakery masters have been allowed and entitled to use the royal crown and to call themselves royally privileged. And that's what happens when you go back to the file and the story here, in fact, a lot of people have just taken this with the royal privilege to themselves as borrowed feathers. So there can be no proof that this has been done in the way that the king has given a special privilege, and so it is with the bakery masters. The common sense of this would then be to call yourself royally privileged, but just not to use the closed crown to use a completely open crown of kings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181317	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181319	Unfortunately, what the Socialist rapporteur says is not correct because the consultant and architect in Rigsarkivet, Ronny Andersen, actually says that the bakery stores are allowed to use the closed royal crown. That's why I don't understand. Well, I don't understand it at all. If we are to believe what both the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister for Culture say about the fact that everyone will be in doubt if you use the closed royal crown at the royally privileged inns, why on earth should all bakery shops be allowed to use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181352	Well, it's good that the rapporteur can use his iPad to google this. I'm just saying that from the material I have on this piece of legislation, I have become convinced that we have to put things right in relation to the use of the closed crown. We can't defend the fact that we're using the closed royal crown as a corporate logo. I cannot understand why a party like the Left is not going to help put this order in order and then go along with the suggestion that you can use an open crown of kings. It may not mean so much in the real world. What is crucial here is that the quality is in order at the inn where you go in and be entertained.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181436	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181440	It is a pity that the rapporteur does not stand by what he said to the Jyllands-Posten once in March. That was actually very sensible. The rapporteur says he has become wiser. The rapporteur also says that the closed royal crown should not be used as a corporate logo and there should be order. The rapporteur has not replied to Mr Seligman's question. Michael Aastrup Jensen's question, and I would like to follow up. Shouldn't the bakery masters be allowed to use the closed royal crown in the future? That's the first thing. The second is: Should the Post Office, Post Denmark, also not be allowed to use the closed royal crown? The post office uses it as a corporate logo. Will the Social Democrats send the rich architect to prevent the bakery masters and Post Denmark from using the closed royal crown? That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181535	It has been explained that in the case of the post office and the use of the closed royal crown it is a task of authority. In relation to the bakery masters, I would say that there is therefore no justification whatsoever for claiming that the bakers here have been given the right and the right of the royal family to use the royal crown or to call themselves royally privileged. Therefore, it is important to maintain that the king's crown is protected and not to be used as a corporate logo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181608	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181610	Post Danmark has been partially privatised and thus they also use the closed royal crown as a corporate logo, and therefore it must mean that the Social Democrats want to ban Post Denmark from using the closed royal crown. That must be the conclusion of what we hear from the platform, and I think that is quite spectacular. Will the rapporteur, sir? Troels Ravn, confirm that Post Denmark will not use its closed royal crown in future because they use it as a corporate logo?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181643	It is remarkable that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is trying to confuse things. That's not what this is all about. The answer has been given to the question of the closed royal crown and the postal service that it is a task of authority. Here we are debating a resolution which three bourgeois parties have tabled, in which the bourgeois parties will not help to put things right in relation to the legislation in this area and will not listen to common sense, that is to say that we could allow ourselves instead to use an open crown of kings, which would solve the problem here. I think that this is an untimely attempt to confuse things, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party brings it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181725	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next speaker in the rapporteur's series is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505181740	Thank you. It is a debate in which a great deal of passion has been put into it from various quarters, but I can at least begin my speech by saying that I am starting back in the Middle Ages. We know, of course, that from the Middle Ages and many centuries on, the government has ensured that there were inns for the benefit of those who traveled around the country, and here you could buy yourself a meal and have a warm bed to stay in. Along the roads you see when you drive around, and I know it myself from Funen that there are still many of these inns. They were built at the distance that a horse could reasonably travel in 1 day, 40 km, and therefore they lie like pearls on a leash where they still are. It is thus a very fine tradition that has put some fine marks in our cultural landscape, and I would also like to say that a visit to one of the Danish inns is a nice way of making a stay when you move around the Danish country. At Funen we also have one of the very old inns back from 1761, Majorgaarden down at Oure, and it is still to this day the framework for family gatherings, both when there is a party and when you remember such as. at funerals. But many of these Danish inns are still located in old, beautiful buildings, and therefore they also constitute cultural memories. The proposers would like to give the inns the right to use the closed royal crown, which is part of the trademark of the inns, something which many in practice have used for quite a long time, even though it was actually back in 1912 that the concept of royal privileged inn owner was abolished. Such a change does not seem to us to be a good idea in the SF, although we can understand the proposers' desire to emphasize the conservation value of the inns. The crown symbolises the state power, and no one today may use the closed royal crown as a trademark unless they are approved as a royal court supplier. It is Her Majesty the Queen who decides who is appointed a royal court supplier, and it is usually representatives of companies who have had permanent deliveries to the court for a long period of time. So the king's crown is in addition to this reserved state institutions and companies such as... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Police, the Defence and the SKAT, and the reproduction of the crown takes place among other things. on official letters, uniforms and vehicles used by the State authorities. The inn today has no connection with the state, and that is why, in our opinion, they should not use the special symbol of the state either. So in SF we believe that the same rules should apply to both innkeepers and all other entrepreneurs in Denmark, and we believe that there is no reason to introduce a new division into royally privileged and all other restaurants. We believe that companies should be able to operate on equal terms, and that is why we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182049	Thank you. There are two inscriptions for short remarks. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182054	Thank you. Does this mean that the SF will table a motion for a resolution that Danish bakery stores may not use closed royal crown in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182102	No, it doesn't. Today I am dealing with the matter before us, B 124, and today it is about the use of the closed royal crown, and we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182111	Then it is the questioner with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182113	But then the whole argument does not add up. For is it believed that the closed crown of kings should be for only state people and authority tasks and the like? Well, I don't know what bakery stores are on Funen and if they do authority tasks. But I can reveal that the bakery shops in East Jutland do not do authority tasks. Therefore, if the argument is to stand up to believers, they must not be able to use a closed crown of kings in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182140	Well, I understand that Michael Aastrup Jensen's best argument is about bakers, so I expect that we may soon be able to stand in this Chamber again, and then we can discuss the use of crowns by the bakers. Today it is about the use of the crown symbol by the inns, and that is what we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182157	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182200	But it is quite touching that the Socialist People's Party takes account of the royal crown and will protect the royal crown because it is the symbol of the state. I think that's touching. But the rapporteur does not want to take account of cultural memories and cultural history at all. Nearly a thousand years of history are linked to these royally privileged inns. And what we could do was give them some kind of dispensation. Yes, we know that this is the symbol of state power, but we also acknowledge that since 1198 there have been royally privileged inns, and therefore there is a special history attached, so yes, we can allow you to use this closed royal crown. Why, however, will the SF's cultural rapporteur not help to grant the royally privileged inns that derogation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182306	Well, we do not want to do so, for the sole reason that it is not the inns that have been royally privileged, but it has been the inn owner who has had a privilege, and that is why, when an inn changes owner, all the years mentioned here have had to be sought as owner, that is to say, to be royally privileged. So it is not the inn that has been, but it is the owner who has been. But so, this has been in force since 1912. Now the question is raised in this Chamber and we are asked whether we can support the granting of derogations or that you go in and change the law because you cannot do this here. We do not want that, nor do we believe that it is reasonable to maintain the royally privileged inn by saying that this is not what is at issue. It has been the owner of an inn that has been privileged, and this has not been properly used. So we do not want to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182359	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182402	After all, the rapporteur is making the same mistake as the Minister for Culture, which is to take this as a purely legal matter. We recognize that it is the symbol of the state. Everybody knows that. But this is a culturally historic speech for the benefit of the royally privileged inns, as they themselves call themselves, and it is to acknowledge the almost a thousand-year-old history and attachment to the crown of kings. Can the SF and the rapporteur sit and whisper over there in his legal corner really not recognise that this is cultural history at its best and that we must therefore grant them that special derogation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182450	I would simply like to say that we are not in agreement, nor is it a proper use of privileged inn, which the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party continues to maintain here. So that's a wrong premise. And we have been asked about B 124 about the use of the closed Danish crown for inns, and we cannot support that proposal. I do not think we can agree on that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182517	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182527	Now I have tried to look at that proposal, and then I say to myself: What would be illegal with an inventor using the royal crown? Against this background, I should actually vote in favour of the proposal. However, when I read the comments, I find it strange that, for example, we should be able to read them. just use the words royally privileged about some inns when the term was looped more than 100 years ago. And more strange is it when the proposers claim that the inns are proud of their historical attachment to the royal house and thus use the royal crown. The fact is that the owners of the inn personally applied for and signed a contract that an inn should be royally privileged until 1912. After all, it stopped with the 1912 Hostage Act, so there are no owners who have applied for and signed such a contract. When we look at the old inns as part of the old cultural heritage, I think it is important to preserve them today too. But the question is whether some inns should have a privilege as royally privileged, which does not exist, while others cannot have the opportunity to use the royal crown. The fact is that the penal code considers, among other things, that: The king's crown as part of the state's privileges. I have to say that it is nonsense when the royal house is exalted to be part of the state. When I look at the crown of kings, I believe that there must be equality and freedom to use it also on highways. I am in favour of that. But the proposal is that some it creates inequality between different inns. I think we should say that inns can be part of our cultural heritage and, at the same time, part of business. They are. I think that every inn in this country should have the right to use the royal crown if they like, but it is of course a matter of amending both the penal code and the Paris Convention. I think we should look at that. In other words, I think that every inn should be given the opportunity to use the crown they would like to use. Where I live, I know Valby Borgerkro, Valby Kro, and Vigerslev Kro. If the owners want to use the royal crown, it's good enough for me, as I've said before. Unfortunately, this proposal discriminates against people in historic inns. One question may be: why should it not also be inns which over the last 100 years have not been able to become so-called royally privileged? Is that fair? My answer is no. According to the proposers, the proposal is also about advertising value for some inns instead of others. I hope we can work to ensure that all inns and everywhere can have the opportunity to advertise their historical heritage. But this proposal does not hold true in the real world. That is why I cannot support this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182827	Thank you. There are two comments on short lines, and this time it is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Danish People's Party, who is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182836	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr is really a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, because he says one to the media and something else in the hall. On 17 March 2015, he said to Jyllands-Posten: "I think the National Archives should stick the pipe in. The inn is part of our cultural heritage and they will not abuse the state's trademark. If necessary, we must amend the penal code so that the inns can also use their closed crowns in the future. As far as I am concerned, this is about the freedom of speech of the inns, and I will defend that. These are clear words, and it is good that the rapporteur has said so, and we can support that, but then he comes down to the Chamber and says the opposite; then he can no longer support what he has said himself. So which Jørgen Arbo-Baeh should we trust? Is he the one who says something to the media or the one who says something in the Chamber? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505182933	But the point is that the proposal now before us uses a term which does not exist in the real world, for example. a royally privileged inn. What is it? There is no royally privileged inn in today's Denmark. So I think that the proposal is in any case wrongly worded. Because I'm saying that all people should be able to use the king's crown, because I'm not the kind of monarchist like everyone else. I think the king's crown should be used if you want to. The thing is, it's illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183004	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183006	The article I am referring to concerns the royally privileged inns, and that is what the rapporteur is being asked about, and that is what he says in the affirmative that he wants to defend, and then the rapporteur comes down to the Chamber and says exactly the opposite. It doesn't add up. Which rapporteur should we trust? Is it the rapporteur who speaks to the media or who speaks in the Chamber? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183036	I'm very surprised. For the term royally privileged inns does not exist, so I am surprised that a proposal is now being put forward which assumes that there are some royally privileged inns that can preserve their royal crown. Because they don't exist. So I think we should try to look at what we can do to make sure that the old inns, whether royally privileged or not, can also use it that they are part of the Danish cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183109	The next question is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183112	Thank you. I have to admit, I like it better too, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, who is in Jyllands-Posten in the article in question, where he clearly says that the National Archives must stick the pipe in and that we simply have to come up with a scheme in which they can in future also be allowed to use the closed royal crown, and I do not understand why this change has been made. I understand if you want everyone just to be allowed to use king's crowns, etc., but I also think deep down that Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr knows that this proposal will not have time on earth, because this is just as much about cultural heritage. It's just as much about there being some inns that have been allowed for 400 years and sometimes for several years to use a certain term that they were then deprived of in 1912 but where they still feel that it's part of the story it's that this inn has been here for 400 years. Is Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Baeh does not agree that cultural heritage is also important and that is a good way to both profile us in relation to tourists, but also to ensure rural areas outside the major cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183217	Well, I can give you that, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen is right. But the question is: have the people who today have an inn signed that they are royally privileged? They haven't. Then they must be very old. So why is it them? Why should one make a distinction between those who have not been royally privileged and those who have been so in the past until 1912? Are the others not also part of the cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183245	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183247	Now it is true that if it were an inn that existed many, many centuries ago, then it was royally privileged, for it was the only inns that were allowed at that time, it was if they were royally privileged. So there should not be any inns that are not royally privileged, which are also old. So, yes, I think it's part of the story. I think it is part of history that we have some inns, fortunately for what exists and has been for many hundred years. And they seem to be right, I think, that it is part of their soul, part of their marketing potential and part of their village's reputation, that there is a tavern so proud of it that, in addition to using the term royally privileged inn, it also has the closed royal crown. I have to admit: is it not common sense that we are saying that they should actually be allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183335	I think that the old inns should, of course, market themselves. But the question is, can they use the king's crown? You can't legally do that, and I think that's too bad. But as a starting point, I think we should continue working with and ensure that the old inns should of course be preserved, also in today's Denmark, because I think they are part of our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183400	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505183419	Thank you. If we are to formalize everything, this case is about the small ones being spanked, namely the inns, and the big ones being allowed, namely the Danish Post Office; it is so big, so they are allowed to use the closed royal crown. It is really a pity that this proposal, tabled by the Danish People's Party and the Left and the Conservatives, is being shot down, because it is a cultural historical matter we are dealing with. In 1198 the first privileged inn, Bromølle Kro, will be established. Erik Klipping issues a law in 1283 to establish inns throughout Denmark. Margrethe I issues a regulation that there should be approx. 4 miles, i.e. 40 km, between each inn, and it's in 1396. Then we reach the railway time and the railway hotels, which make it difficult for the royally privileged inns, and then we get the law of 1912 which imposes a ban on the use of the closed crown. Then we have to look at it historically, the royally privileged inns actually have the right of history to use the closed royal crown because they have used it longer than it has been forbidden. It was banned in 1912 and it was 103 years ago. The first royally privileged inn is back in 198. I know that the Minister and the Red majority would like to argue legally and with the power of the State symbol behind them. We recognize that the king's crown, the closed royal crown, is the symbol of the state. We argue culturally. There have been royally privileged inns since 1198, and the Minister should not shake his head, for there has been. It's part of the story. The inns that today call themselves royally privileged inns are no longer, but they call themselves that because they have history with them. Bromølle Kro from 1198 still exists away. Legally, it is no longer a royally privileged inn, but historically it is. Therefore, it makes good sense that they are allowed to use the closed royal crown, so they have that unbroken historical line. And then the Minister, with the entire office in his back, can argue legally and statesman symbolistly. She is allowed to do so, and she has the right to do so. We argue culturally. We respect history, which is crucial. The second thing I want to address, and the Minister is also allowed to listen to, is the role of the National Archives, where I have become somewhat in doubt. The National Archives have in recent years followed up the law of 1912, addressed to inns and told them to stop using the Crown of Kings, and it is after all the task of the National Archives to provide for it. However, there have been reports in some media that the National Archives will not follow up on it anyway. Then there have been some corrections to articles that say that the National Archives will nevertheless follow up on the law. So we simply have to find out what the National Archives really means, and I would ask the Minister to follow up on that. Because I'm very confused when I follow the case in the media and the announcements of the National Archives. Then there have also been a number of contributions from the Social Democratic Party, from the SF and from the Enhedslisten, and I have to say that it is a little confusing to follow the arguments. Social democracy speaks of the fact that the closed royal crown must not be used as a corporate logo. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, has shown very clearly that the bakery masters use the closed royal crown. I have said myself that the Post Office, Post Denmark, uses the closed royal crown as a corporate logo, and it is a company that has been privatised. So they use it as a corporate logo. SF refers to the Minister's legal arguments, and Enhedslisten is a pure Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, who says one thing in the media, to the Jyllands-Posten, namely that you will of course allow the royal privileged inns to use the royal crown, and when we meet the rapporteur in the Chamber, he will immediately depart from what he has said in the media. I must admit that I do not understand the jealousy and envy of the government here. These are a few inns which, by virtue of history, will be allowed to use the closed royal crown, so history is unbroken. I simply do not understand that jealousy on the part of the State. There is no shattering of either royal or state power if the royally privileged inns are allowed to use the closed royal crown. Because it's the right of history that they have. They do not have it legally, nor do they have the symbolism of state power. But they have it, according to history, by virtue of history. So for us, it's about cultural history and not the other thing. We must be able to find some sort of solution there, a derogation, which Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen has been in favour, so that these former royally privileged inns can continue the historical line from 1198 onwards. Then in 2198 they can celebrate 1,000 years with the closed crown of kings. That would be amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505184107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505184127	I would point out that votes on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday, 7 May 2015. I give the floor to the author of the question, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. It's three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505184201	Three minutes wasn't much! I would just like to read out the question so that any viewers can follow: Will the Minister explain the role of the State Administration in the administration of cases involving vulnerable children and young people, including how many supervisory cases the State Administration has raised, which cases the State Administration has examined in more detail in relation to the supervision of municipalities, which cases are rejected and on what basis, and will the Minister also give its assessment of whether the construction of the State Administration is adequate and up-to-date in relation to the tasks of supervising the municipalities? I don't know if the Minister is listening, it doesn't seem like it, because he's not in his place. This question debate is a follow-up to previous debates and questions that we have asked in relation to this area, and the reason for it is also that I would very much like to be wiser in this area. I have sometimes wondered what role the supervision of the State administration actually has and what supervision they carry out, and what the specific cases are and which cases they reject and where the cases that are rejected are then dealt with. We have also seen a great many cases being raised in the media, where several municipalities have also been in the fall. I also know that the Ankestyrelsen receives several complaints in this area. We also know that the Ankestyrelsen has investigated many cases where there have been errors and shortcomings. An earlier reply which I have received states that the decisive factor in determining whether the State administration has a duty to investigate a case is the existence of information which gives reason to believe that there is a certain likelihood of unlawfulness, which is not deceptive and which has an impact on the state of law today. Then I would like to ask the Minister when something is not trivial and which cases it deals with. That would be nice to know. Is it, for example, when a municipality introduces a general ceiling on a day of relief for a family to which it would otherwise be entitled, or is it when the law on legal certainty is not complied with? The rule that the State administration itself decides whether there are grounds for raising an supervisory case implies that the State administration has the possibility of refusing to deal in substance with requests which are not sufficiently substantiated and which, therefore, may unduly take up the resources of the State administration. If the State Administration considers that there are no grounds for raising an inspection case, the matter may be referred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, and the Ministry may then examine the matter if it is considered that the case is in principle or general. What cases do the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior raise? The Minister could also answer that question, and that also applies to how many cases the Ministry has taken up. You don't have to run around confusedly in this Chamber to find a decision, because I have a clear one that you can just back up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505184513	It will then have the opportunity for the rapporteur to come along later when the rapporteur has the floor as a negotiator. That was only the explanatory statement right now. Then comes the next speaker, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and there are 15 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505184532	Just a few weeks ago, in this Chamber, we debated motion for a resolution B 98 tabled by the Danish People's Party on the need to increase the accountability of municipal and municipal councillors in cases of child abuse and neglect. There was no majority in favour of the proposal put forward, but the parties of the Folketing agreed that cases of child abuse and neglect are very serious and there is a need for municipalities to respond both quickly and decisively. As I said at the time, the government believes that with the rules already in force in this area, including the possibility for the State Administration to apply periodic penalty payments and the right of the courts to impose penalties, there are sufficient tools to be used against municipal councillors who do not have the focus that must be demanded in such serious cases. And that continues to be the view of the government. With this question, the Danish People's Party now wants me to explain further the role of the state administration in relation to the administration of the cases in question concerning vulnerable children and young people, including which cases the state administration has raised and which cases the state administration has refused to take a position on. Mrs Karina Adsbøl has already asked both myself and my predecessor, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, to answer that question on several committee questions and Article 20 questions, and I would of course like to shed some light on the subject again here today, even in the context of a question debate, although the questions were many and perhaps more of a factual nature. The State administration supervises the compliance of municipalities with the legislation applicable in particular to public authorities. The State administration itself decides whether there are sufficient grounds for raising an supervisory case. However, the State administration shall not supervise the case in so far as a special appeal or supervisory authority can rule on it. The Board of Appeal may, as a review body in relation to decisions on vulnerable children and young people, decide whether such cases have been dealt with correctly. Everyone also has the opportunity to inform the Ankestyrelsen, who in relation to vulnerable children and young people can take up matters of their own motion. When a case concerning vulnerable children and young people can be dealt with by the Ankestyrelsen, the State Administration has no opportunity to decide on the matter. However, the State administration may, by means of periodic penalty payments, if necessary, force the municipalities to comply with the decision of the Ankestyrelsen and thereby take the necessary steps in cases of vulnerable children and young people. The purpose of periodic penalty payments is to enforce the enforcement of an obligation to act and cannot be used as a penalty for any alleged infringement of the law. I cannot tell you how many of the state administration's supervisory cases deal with vulnerable children and young people. This is because it is not possible in the State Administration's journal system to separate cases of vulnerable children and young people from other supervisory cases. However, it is the opinion of the State Administration that only very limited cases of supervision are being brought about on vulnerable children and young people, precisely because the Ankestyrelsen acts as a review body in this area. The State administration has considered it most appropriate to establish decision codes for each type of decision in the field of supervision and not for each matter, for example. the issue of vulnerable children and young people. This has been done by the State Administration on the basis of the State Administration's need to manage its own supervisory matters and the corresponding needs of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior as a professional and senior supervisory authority. As regards the organisation of the state administration, I can inform you that the merger of the previous five state administrations into the current state administration, among other things. has resulted in the establishment of a common professional environment in the field of supervision, which ensures uniform treatment of supervisory cases. The organisation has been carried out with the aim of improving both the quality and effectiveness of the state administration's procedures. In addition, the State Administration focuses on ensuring both adequate and professionally competent staff in order to continuously build and maintain the necessary expertise in this area. I would like to conclude by emphasising that it is extremely important that cases of vulnerable children and young people are properly dealt with in the municipalities and the necessary steps are taken in these cases. I know we all agree on this, but, as I have already said, it is the Government's view that, with the rules in force in this area, there are sufficient tools to be used, if necessary, against the members of the municipal council. In addition, the government considers that the interplay between the Ankestyrelsen and the state administration, as respectively the complaints authority and the supervisory authority, also means that the means to ensure that the municipalities comply with the law and act adequately in cases of vulnerable children and young people, are present. That is why I think that the best outcome that could come from the debate here is, of course, if we focus on how to avoid mistakes in the case-file, and I always think it is important, both for reasons of legal certainty and the legality and legitimacy of the work that is going on in the municipalities, that we focus on what happens if mistakes have been made, but I do think, given the seriousness of the issues here, that the debate and interest should be about how to avoid mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505185033	Thank you, Minister. Then we start the debate itself and the first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Speaking time is the usual five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505185102	Thank you. I think the Minister sounds a little reproachful about the fact that the Danish People's Party is raising these issues, and I think it is actually a little difficult to get the Minister's attention in this debate. The reason we're raising this is because it's of great interest to us. What the Folketing cannot get a concrete answer to is how many cases have been raised with regard to the supervision of vulnerable children and young people. I think that's weird. I mean, we're missing an overview. DF was introduced with the assault package that, in relation to reporting children and young people, the municipalities had to register how many they received, precisely so that we had an overview and could also act accordingly, that is to say, as needed. However, when it comes to the supervision of children and young people by the State Administration, we cannot know how many cases have been raised. The answer to the Folketing was that it simply cannot be stated and that there is no qualified estimate of those cases. It is true that I have asked a number of questions about this issue over the years, because the answer from several ministers has often been that citizens can only complain to supervision if they think their municipality does not comply with the law. At other times I have been informed that supervision is not a complaint body, and that is also what the state administration writes on their website, namely that it is not a complaint body. However, I have also received many inquiries from citizens who are wondering about it when they approach the supervision of the state administration. So it is also good to take the debate and clarify the role of supervision by the State Administration. Today, the newspapers have written that the municipalities are obsessed with the supervision of children and that one in three municipalities does not comply with the law when they supervise children's institutions. Then you can ask the Minister here: is this a matter for the State Administration's supervision? Is it a matter that they might take up? Last year we could also follow two foster children who were removed from their foster family against the will of their children, against the will of their families and against the will of their foster family. The case is running on the Ankestyrelsen, and even though the foster family was successful on the Ankestyrelsen, the children were not returned home. We regularly read and hear that the law is not being observed, either from the representations we receive in the committees on which we sit, or we can read about it in the newspapers. That is why I think it is extremely relevant to further clarify the area with regard to the various bodies we have: how much do they work together across the board of directors and supervision? Will they also agree on which body raises the relevant cases? How does cooperation take place across borders? We all remember the various cases that have been, among other things. Also the Rebild case, where Asbjørn With won the Cavling Prize to cult it. And what can you say? That is why I think it is important to clarify: when is this a single matter, and when is it an entire matter in which the supervision of the State administration is involved? This also applies to the Esbjerg case and the other cases. When is the state administration's supervision going in here and assessing? Because as far as I remember, they were involved in the case in Rebild. So I think it's important that we get an overview of this here... what kind of cases the State Administration's supervision raises... so that there are no citizens, you can say that they are also addressing the supervision of the State Administration and then told that this is not where to turn, but that they should turn to the Ankestyrelsen and so that they do not fall outside, and then at least there are some who take care of their complaints to some extent. The newspapers have also written about this very thing. I know that MetroXpress has also written some articles about it, and unfortunately I do not have them, because otherwise I could just read from them that there is no overview of what specific supervisory cases are being raised. This is also why I have raised a question debate today and will make a proposal for adoption, which I will read out on behalf of the Danish People's Party: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to submit an annual report to the Danish Parliament on the number of cases and what types of cases have been raised under the supervision of the State Administration, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has previously stated in a reply to the Danish Parliament that it has not so far been possible for the State Administration to make a qualified estimate of the number of cases relating to vulnerable children and young people. The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Part 2 of this Annex shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 498. The annual report shall include at least: the total number of complaints and the number of supervisory cases raised. Which municipalities have been complained about. The respective backgrounds of the complaints. Information on how supervision has dealt with the respective complaints, including whether penalties have been imposed in the cases in question and, where appropriate, what sanctions have been imposed. Information on the reasons for the rejection of a complaint by the State Administration. V 50).
ParlaMint-DK_20150505185634	Thank you to the rapporteur and the read-out proposal for adoption will be included in the further discussions. The next speaker and rapporteur is Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505185650	Let me begin by thanking the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, for raising this debate, because it is always a relevant debate to discuss the quality of the case, both in the municipalities and, of course, also in the case of the supervisory authority, i.e. the state administration, and the appeal body in the form of the Ankestyrelsen. I admit that it can be a little difficult to get a hold on where you go with your frustrations in relation to decisions and where you go if you think the legislation is not respected. The next one I would like to thank is the Minister, because I think the Minister has answered quite adequately how the system is, so to speak, built up. What the Danish People's Party is calling for, especially with the proposal for adoption, is that we here in the Danish Parliament should have an annual report in relation to the number of cases. And it's sympathetic. Well, it sounds sympathetic that we need to have that insight. But there is such a foreign concept that I often use: something that is need to know and something that is nice to know. And in this context, I would like to say that this is the kind of knowledge that could be nice to know, but do we really need that knowledge in order actually, as legislators, to be able to carry out what everything else equals is our primary task? It is such a slightly long-haired discussion about the division of power. I do not think we are doing anything further good by launching this kind of quite pervasive initiative with an annual statement. But that should not change the fact that I am quite as busy as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, to ensure that we prevent mistakes in cases at all. And if you feel as a citizen mistreated and feel that the decision is wrong, you should also know where it is you should go with your frustration. If a municipality does not comply with any of the instructions it may have received from the Ankestyrelsen, then of course the state administration must respond, then the state administration must use the tools to be used, precisely the fine instrument, i.e. the fine sanction. According to the rapporteur, which I spoke to about it, it is probably spent about four times, which may not be a very high number of times, and that is something that can be called into question. But my approach to the matter is that at this stage, and as the wording is from the Danish People's Party, we will not support the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption. On the other hand, I have another proposal for adoption, which actually comes on behalf of all the other parties, and I would like to read it out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament stresses the importance of joint efforts by the authorities in relation to vulnerable children and young people, among other things. through an effective appeal system. The Danish Parliament notes that the Ankestyrelsen as an appeal body in relation to decisions on vulnerable children and young people can decide whether the cases have been dealt with correctly. Everyone also has the opportunity to inform the Ankestyrelsen, who in relation to vulnerable children and young people can take up matters of their own motion. The role of the State administration as a supervisory authority means that the State administration can, by means of periodic penalty payments, force the municipalities to comply with the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen and thereby take the necessary steps in cases of vulnerable children and young people. The Danish Parliament's parties agree that the number of errors in children's cases is too high and that it is essential to have a strong focus on avoiding mistakes in the case of vulnerable children and young people. Parliament therefore invites the government to call for discussions in the next Assembly on how this work can continue to be supported. • V 51). With regard to the whole discussion about precisely preventing the number of errors in cases, I believe that this is something on which we can reach a broad consensus in the Folketing, but that at the same time we must also be very responsive to how the people who are actually working in the daily legislation can provide us with input as to whether the legislation is at all understandable, whether it makes sense to use and whether there is any doubt as to how it should be interpreted. As legislators, we have a huge responsibility for this, and I look forward to continuing to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190123	There is one more brief comment. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190127	Thank you. I should just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that knowing how many cases the supervision has raised in relation to children and young people is nice to know, but that it is not need to know. It's just to see if I've understood it correctly. I would therefore like to say to the rapporteur: in the Danish People's Party, we would very much like to enter into a multidisciplinary cooperation in order to improve the quality of the case. I know that there have been several suggestions in the field that social workers should not have so many cases, but the municipalities can already, it can be said, organise themselves out of that. Perhaps that is not something we need to legislate about, because a municipality can assess that. And I also know that some municipalities have already done so today, i.e. set a ceiling on how many cases a case worker or social worker should have. But that was just the clearing question compared to nice to know and need to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190234	Thank you for the question. But I would also like to clarify this point, because what the proposer has to say in relation to the proposal for adoption here is this annual statement which will show us the total number of complaints. But getting that insight and then not at the same time discussing what options we have as a Parliament in relation to such an annual statement is a bit like just asking for a lot of paper, but without there really being any initiatives on what it is, you have to do with the knowledge you then gain. And that is where I agree with the Minister's statement on how the systems are, as it were, constructed today. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement on the forthcoming and, indeed, already existing cooperation to ensure that this work is something that you are aware of and that the legislation is understandable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190334	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190336	Thank you for your answer. Now it is often the case, when it is a matter of asking for a statement or of setting up a commission or something else, that the initiatives will follow. It is, of course, just like, when you might say, re-evaluate a draft law after two years, namely that you are having a conversation or that the Minister calls for a discussion on the basis of a statement. And afterwards we are discussing whether some initiatives should be taken or whether it is good enough as it is today. That is why I think it is a little too bad that the Left does not back up, also because we have already done several things together and the child's reform. This is like a follow-up to how everything works in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190418	The reason why we do not support the proposal for adoption, as it is here, is that, as at present, there is, I believe, a comprehensive insight into how the Ankestyrelsen deals with matters, how supervision is in the municipalities. And this need to follow cases and see which municipalities have complained about etc. is not impossible information to obtain. That is why I believe that the whole regime that would have to be set up in order to be able, word for word, to accommodate what is being asked for here is too far-reaching, in relation to what we need to know in order to be able to potentially change legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190507	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Julie Skovsby as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190521	We all have a responsibility for each other, and responsibility for the weakest is particularly strong. No one should be in any doubt for a second that the relationship of children is very close to us Socialists. This has been the case ever since our first programme of principles from 1876, the Gimle programme, where we went to battle against child labour, and that is what it is today when, as with the question, it is about vulnerable children and young people. As the Minister mentioned in his speech, it is no more than a few weeks ago that we discussed a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on increased accountability of municipal politicians and leaders. On that occasion, I thought it important to refresh the measures we have taken in recent years to improve the conditions of children, and I will also take part of my speaking time for that today. With the child's reform, we put the child's legal certainty and best interests at the heart. It was an important and major step forward, and this government has taken further steps and, among other things, has taken further steps. amended the rules on State reimbursement so that the smaller municipalities themselves do not have to bear the cost of housing large flocks of children. In addition, we have implemented the package of attacks aimed both at preventing abuse and ensuring more help for children and young people who have been subjected to abuse. We have carried out a supervisory reform so that children and young people at placement sites, accommodation facilities and other social services can be met with higher quality and be guaranteed more professional supervision. And we, as the first government, have ever set social 2020 targets, where several of them specifically concern helping vulnerable children and young people. Children's conditions are an extremely important area for us Socialists, and that is why we are also following very closely the measures we have taken as a government. Because we are convinced that this fight must be fought every day. There are no snapshot solutions, even if it might be nice. It's a long and cool move, and now we have to hold on. We've gotten started, but we have to move on. Fortunately, we also know that we are dealing here with an area with a great many committed employees who want only the best for the children. When it comes to this specific debate on the state administration, it is important to make it clear that everyone is free to approach the state administration if one suspects that a child case is not running as it should and that the municipality does not comply with the law. The State administration may also, of its own motion, raise a matter of supervision. At the end of my speech, I would like to put a question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who has raised the question debate here today, namely: which structure will the party find the most desirable? For the only firm thing we know about the Danish People's Party's policy towards vulnerable children and young people is that the Danish People's Party wants to lower the age of crime, push more children into poverty by creating a new ceiling on cash aid and pointing to a prime minister candidate who wants to introduce zero growth; all policy areas that will have an impact on society's help and treatment of vulnerable children and young people. And in those words, I look forward to the debate tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190920	There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505190924	It was unbelievable what was to be heard in the rapporteur's speech. In fact, under the government we have today, inequality has increased. If the rapporteur had listened and followed the debate and sat in his place and not talked to other rapporteurs in the Chamber, then the rapporteur could have asked a question from his place when I was standing on the platform. Perhaps the rapporteur can tell us what this is quite specifically about matters raised by the supervision of the State Administration in the area of children and young people, in other words also about children with disabilities? What exactly are the cases raised by the State Administration's supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191011	There is the saying, when we look at the figures for children growing up in poverty, that we can see that since this government came in, more than 3,000 children have come out of poverty from 2009 to 2012, and I think that the Danish People's Party must deal with this when it wants to introduce a ceiling for cash aid. As far as the specific cases are concerned, I think that it has been well explained how it works today, and I think that the Danish People's Party still needs to point out what new and different structure of the state administration you want, because that must be the wish you have when you have raised that question today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191107	It is unbelievable that the rapporteur should base some intentions on the Danish People's Party's question debate. It's just unbelievable. I am shocked by the rapporteur because we are raising a question debate that we would like some information on which cases have been raised in the field of children, including which disability cases have been raised. The rapporteur then bases all sorts of things on this. With regard to the poverty line, I would say that it is a poverty line that the government has adopted. But may I not just say that the rapporteur cannot answer what it is for cases that have been raised, because we do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191148	Facts about poverty and children growing up in poverty are that there are more than 3 000 children who have now come out of poverty since the government came into existence. The Danish People's Party wants us to go back to a cash aid ceiling. After all, the chairman of the Danish People's Party has said so, and I think that is something that must be included in this debate when we talk about vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191216	Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191219	That is what we might call a turning of the debate. It is clear that when the rapporteur rides such a gangbull off from the platform about poor children in Denmark, it will suddenly be about that. What does it mean to be poor? Can the rapporteur give a full account of this? When are you a poor child in Denmark? And is it only children in vulnerable families who can be in the category of poor children, or can there be children who, in the rapporteur's view, are poor but who are not at risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191256	I think it is relevant when we talk about vulnerable children and young people that we are also talking about children who, fortunately, today have been dragged out of poverty and who are no longer living in poverty. The fact is, we've seen this fall, luckily. What, then, is poverty? We have seen that fewer families of children are being put on the streets. It's poverty when children are put on the streets. Fortunately, we have seen that the basket is broken. There are fewer people today who are being put on the streets, and that is because of this government's policy. It is a work that we must, of course, continue, but we must, of course, discuss funds and growth in the public sector. Of course, we have to discuss zero growth when we discuss how to help children and young people in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191355	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191358	It sounds almost gross, but I would like to say that it was a very poor answer. It is an answer completely devoid of content and concrete answers to when the rapporteur's optics make a poor child in Denmark. If it is only a matter of crowns and ears, i.e. how much money does father and mother or mother alone have at their disposal per month, isn't it a little narrow? The rapporteur answers that this is about families being put out on the street because father or mother has not paid the rent. For what reason has the rent not been paid? Is it only a matter of crowns and ears? I would like the rapporteur's specific and specific answer to that, because then we have something to do with a discussion on the conditions of children in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191446	If the Left rapporteur asks me whether poverty is about crowns and ears, I have to answer yes. That's what this is about. Fortunately, we can see that the basket is broken. There are fewer children's families who are being put on the streets today. We have removed the poverty benefits that the previous government and the Danish People's Party adopted and introduced, which meant, of course, that a large number of children and families were brought into poverty. It's one of the results I'm really proud of. This is one of the things that we must, of course, continue to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191529	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191538	Thank you. It is not right for municipalities to fail in helping vulnerable children and young people. That must be quite clear, and that is why I also thank you for today's debate, which has been raised by the Danish People's Party. It is extremely relevant. Unfortunately, there have been some terrible cases in which the municipalities have not intervened in time against child abuse, and it is impossible to bear when it comes to the fact that the municipality or, in most cases, in fact, several municipalities have been in contact with the same family several times without the children actually being helped. Children from families with abuse problems, children from families with domestic violence, are more likely to end up in the same situation as adults. It is therefore one of the municipalities' most important tasks to help children as early as possible, especially in such families. Because children's background must not determine their future. It is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities to carry out this task, but, of course, there must also be supervision of the municipalities in this area, and that is, of course, in the state administration. The Ankestyrelsen is a review body in the specific decisions for vulnerable children and young people, and in fact everyone can inform the Ankestyrelsen directly, so that the board can also take up cases of its own motion. When there is an appeal body in the Ankestyrelsen in children's and young people's cases, the role of the state administration is primarily to follow up on the decisions taken by the Ankestyrelsen and thus also to check whether they are followed subsequently by the municipalities. The Minister has already explained the extent of supervision cases and how the assembly of the state administration has led to a strengthening of professional supervision, so I will not go into that in any more detail. I would like to mention that the solution to the challenges that are quite relevant to us today and that we are discussing is precisely prevention. It has also been raised by Karen Ellemann, the rapporteur of the Left. It's about helping municipalities do better. I would just like to mention a few examples of what the current government has done to support it. We have the abuse package, which has strengthened the municipal council's written preparedness to prevent, detect and deal with cases of abuse against children and young people. We have set up a task force to strengthen the proceedings in the municipalities. We've set aside $30 million. kr. for further training of staff in the field of children and young people, and in addition, the Agency also carries out practical studies aimed precisely at ensuring coordination of practices across municipalities. We must be prepared to give more help to the municipalities in this area if it turns out that these efforts are not sufficient. The Radical Left does not believe that the current arrangements for the supervision of municipalities by the State Administration or the role of the Ankestyrelsen in children's and young people's cases need to be changed. The increased effort must lie in the local authorities' specific procedures, and this is where we must prevent these terrible cases from occurring at all. That is why the Radical Left can also support the previously read proposal for adoption by Karen Ellemann. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191841	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191843	Thank you. If the rapporteur says that the Minister has explained very well what specific supervisory cases there are, then it may be that the rapporteur can elaborate a little and tell us what specific cases the State Administrative Authority is raising in the area of children and young people, including children with disabilities. Could the rapporteur clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191909	After all, our approach to this problem is different from that of Mrs Karina Adsbøls. Our approach is not that this is about the number of certain cases and how to follow it up. It may be interesting enough to sit and study this statistic, and as Karen Ellemann also said, it may be a knowledge that may be good to have, but the crucial thing in this situation is that you do something preventive, that you do something to help the municipalities, so that they are better able to solve it and avoid mistakes in such cases, and that thus there are also fewer cases that will be, what should we say, handled in the Ankestyrelsen. So that is, of course, our approach to what is not an approach to a statistic, but more an approach that states: How can we help municipalities to avoid mistakes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191954	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505191956	In the Danish People's Party we would very much like to help prevent, and we have also taken part in all the good initiatives taken by the Danish Parliament. But what I am wondering is just what matters the supervision of the state administration has exactly raised, and I think that, as a parliamentarian, you should be told when you ask for it. The rapporteur then says that the Minister has explained this, but I have still not received an answer. Is it a matter of the supervision of the State administration bringing a matter of supervision before a municipality if a municipality sets a ceiling on the day of relief, or is it a matter of a municipality failing to comply with the law on legal certainty? Or when have these oversight cases been raised?
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192041	I am not going to beat it, but the Minister's statement was quite complete in relation to what can be said about this and what information is available about the number of cases on it. I would just like to stress once again that the crucial thing is really preventive work, and that is also what I hear Mrs Adsbøl say. So let us put the energy into it, let us put the energy into helping the municipalities in the places where it is needed, instead of putting it in pursuit of a large number of individual cases. It is not through what we are doing, if we may say so, these children and young people a favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192114	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Trine Mach as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192124	Thank you. I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the discussion about a central and important authority in our society and, at all events, to be persistent in the discussion about how the procedure in the municipal bodies works and how it unfortunately sometimes does not work at all. We would all like to address all the serious cases of municipal neglect and the mistakes we know are being made, but the solution is not necessarily so easy to see. In the SF's view, the proposers' proposal for an annual report is understandable. I understand where the request comes from, but I am actually in line with Mrs Ellemann here. It is not clear what Parliament's scope for action will be on the basis of such a statement, and it is also a question of whether we really do not spend substantial resources on something that we cannot de facto act on. So there I am in line with Mrs Karen Ellemann. There is no doubt that SF also believes it is important that the supervision of municipalities works and that it works well and that we focus not only on reducing the number of errors, but in fact also on striving for no mistakes to have. We know that this is happening; it shows the practice studies carried out by the Ankestyrelsen and so on. So we know that this is happening and we know that something needs to be done about it. That is why we are pleased that we have been able, together with the other parties, to find a common text of proposals such as the one read by Mrs Ellemann, which recognizes, on the one hand, that mistakes are being made and, on the other hand, we think that this is unacceptable and, on the other hand, we say that we need to find a way to help, among other things. the municipalities becoming better at raising these children's cases and how we in the Folketing can look forward to what we can do on our part. So we support the joint text, and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192316	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192318	Then I must ask the same question that I asked Mrs Ellemann. Because is it not the case today that when you set up commissions, ask for statements or revise a draft law after two years to see whether things should be done differently, you also look, as in this report, at what initiatives might be taken, and hopefully have a broad cross-political discussion on whether there is more we should do in this area? What I am asking for today is, of course, related to the fact that we do not really know what kind of supervisory cases have been raised in this context. We know they're in the state administration, but they just haven't been coded as they should. So it is a question of looking at them and seeing what specific cases have been raised. I have not been able to get a proper answer today from either the Minister or any of the rapporteurs. It is also because I know that some municipalities have set a ceiling on how many days of relief you are entitled to if you have a child with disabilities or other. I think it is relevant to know which supervisory cases have been raised. And I cannot understand why the rapporteur does not consider this to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192435	It is not because I find it irrelevant; I am just not sure that it solves the problem we share in recognising there is. I believe that we should go another way, on the basis of the model that we have proposed together with the other parties, in which the government that is now in the next assembly calls the parties for a discussion: how can we minimise the problem of child cases? For it is more than the state administration; there are several things involved. That is one of the points made by the rapporteur, Mrs Adsbøl herself: what can be done at local level to reduce the risk of error? And there will be something on our part about strengthened professionalism, good management, better cooperation, higher quality and perhaps fewer cases per case. social worker etc. We believe that this is the way forward for an annual statement, so we are really saying: we are now sitting on the table and having a joint debate on where it is that we can do something on the part of the Folketing and where it is that other bodies have to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192532	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192534	We are very happy to take part in such a debate. Now none of the rapporteurs has approached the Danish People's Party in connection with the proposal for adoption. I do not know whether it is because the proposal has only become clear here at the last minute, but it would have been nice if a joint motion for a resolution on this subject could have been tabled for this debate. However, I understand that the rapporteur cannot fully answer what specific cases the supervision of the State administration has raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192609	I can say yes to the latter. But I understand that the rapporteur and I have been in the same boat because when the rapporteur read out the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption, it came as a surprise to me. So the reciprocity of finding a common proposal for adoption could perhaps be something that all parties could have done. However, as I said, it is very important for us to recognise this problem jointly by Parliament and to act on it. And we think that the best model is the one proposed in the common text.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192637	Thank you to the last rapporteur. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192645	Well, I would just like to thank you for the opportunity to turn this question over again and just to point out that all those taking part in the debate operate on the same basis, in one way or another, that the State administration supervises the municipalities, but in the case of the cases that have been raised in the debate here, or the many issues that have been mentioned here, they are essentially characterised by the fact that it is the Ankestyrelsen which is the appeal body for them, and therefore it is only a matter of supervision if the municipalities do not follow the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen. Therefore, the way in which the debate is taking place here seems to be a little bit to be fixing the bakery for blacksmith.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192736	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192740	I just need to understand the Minister's answer. I shall count on the Minister to stand on the platform and say that it is only when you have approached the Ankestyrelsen that the state administration enters into a case if the Ankestyrelsen applies to the supervision of the state administration. So it is not because they themselves raise a case if they see something in the media or anything else that they think might be relevant. Now I asked earlier in my rapporteur's speech also in relation to the media that have written today that municipalities are obsessed with supervision in the field of children, whether this could be a matter for the State administration's supervision. I have also asked in the past about the Rebild case, where I also believe that supervision has been involved when you see that there is a whole area full of flaws and shortcomings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192832	Without being polemical, I have to say that it is somehow a touching concern for the work of the state administration, but the interesting thing here must be the cases, i.e. the individual cases, among others. what lies here in the proposal for adoption, namely how to avoid errors in the procedure and how the citizen has legal certainty. But it is as if Mrs Karina Adsbøl thinks that the central subject here is: what is the state administration doing? In the best of all worlds, the state administration would not need to raise supervisory cases, but there are sometimes, and you can take them up of your own motion if you are not prevented from doing so because other authorities are in the process. It is, however, a curious way in which a debate on how to ensure children's cases is going to take place, that we insist that the state administration should not take its task seriously when we cannot obtain proof of one or the other or the third case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192926	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505192928	Well, it is unbelievable that the government party rapporteurs want to put words in the mouths of the Danish People's Party. We are raising a relevant debate because there is an area that is of great interest to us, and that is why I think it is important to find out exactly what kind of cases the supervision of the state administration is going on, versus those running in the Ankestyrelsen. Then I have to say that I find it condescending when the Minister says that one is polemical on the part of the Danish People's Party and I do not know what, because I cannot get an answer as to what kind of supervisory cases have been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505193004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505193006	I had reservations about my own absence of polemics and not the Danish People's Party, and I note that, despite all the questions that the rapporteur has put here today, and the many questions which both I and my predecessor have answered in committee and which, unfortunately, have not been enough to ensure that we do not have a question today, which must then be said to be quite factual rather than political, it can be said that the situation is still the case, that what Mrs Karina Adsbøl returns to all the time is that the State administration should issue more fines to the members of the municipal council, intervenes somewhat more, and it seems to be completely undocumented that this is the way in which it is, as the whole social system is directed towards the fact that it is the Ankestyrelsen, which is in charge of the matter of complaints.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505193055	Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposal for adoption will take place on Thursday, 7 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150505193112	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 6 May 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
