ParlaMint-DK_20150122100000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Health and Prevention (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 115 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Production, Presentation and Sale of Tobacco Products). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100030	The item listed as No. 8 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100046	Nikolaj Villumsen has applied for leave as from 26 January 2015 due to temporary deployment in public office. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100117	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Enhedslisten in Sjællands Storkreds, Bruno Jerup, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 26 January 2015 on the occasion of Nikolaj Villumsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100142	The committee's recommendation is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The recommendation was adopted unanimously by 106 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100207	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 14 by Johan Lund Olsen (IA), Nick Nielsen (SIU), Troels Lund Poulsen (V), Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Helle Mølvig Mølvig (RV), Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Finn Sørensen (EL), Mette Bock (LA) and Per Stig Møller (KF), and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 93 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF, IA, SIU and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions on 13 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 14 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 15 of Søren Espersen (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100326	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100349	Thank you. On behalf of the entire bourgeois opposition, I shall briefly explain the desire to include an additional paragraph in and thus have an amendment tabled to this bill, which is intended to ensure that we do not send less money behind bars because they are unable to pay for the necessary treatment of their waste water in the open country. It is, of course, a good idea to relax this practice, since of course few people get richer by being in prison or being threatened with it. Now it is not the case that the people we are dealing with are getting away from the bill. No, they're just getting a loan that they're supposed to be able to put on top of the loans they already have. What we want with this amendment is to ensure that local authorities are obliged not to send out these instructions until it has been examined whether other solutions can lead to good ecological quality in watercourses. That is the purpose of the whole thing. The Nature and Agriculture Commission notes, for example, that there is a very limited effect of this wastewater treatment and that nitrogen and phosphorus have little impact on the condition of watercourses. It will often be the physical condition of the creeks that has a significance, and only to a very limited extent the discharges, to which the municipalities, moreover, do not bother to measure, but only calculate themselves, just as with wind turbine noise, which means that the citizens are actually out of order here. In the real world, no local authority is able to establish whether the farmer Hansen or the farmer Jensen actually contributes to the poor ecological condition of the watercourses, or vice versa, whether the efforts, the demands, have any effect on the quality of water that can be measured at all. The water quality is also determined on the basis of a fauna number, which is about the presence of insects and small animals and not the chemical composition of the microscopic and typically highly diluted discharges from the housekeeper's drain pipes. This very miserable state of law for citizens means that we want the municipalities to try much more effectively with other methods of achieving a good ecological condition and do not do as they do today, where they send out letters largely mechanically on the basis of the BBR register without carrying out environmental studies on the individual property. With this amendment, we will certainly have far fewer people who will be in the middle of the big bills and far more common sense in our river management. It can never be an end in itself to bother people if, as an authority, one is not able to prove that there is actual emissions and that there is really an environmental problem. Unfortunately, that is the reality today, and that is why we want this extra passage into the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100658	I understand that there are a few brief comments. First, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100703	I think that is simply the strangest amendment I have seen for a long time. It may also be that many people in here did not listen because it is a little technical, and it is about sewage treatment, which does not make everyone's blood boil, but I do not understand where this amendment comes from. Is this about the fact that the rapporteur, together with the other parties, does not want and no longer supports the need for waste water treatment in the open country, backing the action that we, together with the Minister for the Environment, actually got under way, that we would like to give a helping hand to those who were in financial difficulties? Of course, you don't have to go to jail if you don't have $80,000. for waste water management, so we made a very good proposal with broad support in the Folketing that we then give a helping hand to those who are financially in need. All of a sudden, there is an amendment to the effect that we may not have waste water management or sewage disposal in the open country at all, that we are suddenly about to look at streams and streams. Well, we're not talking about the same thing at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100806	No, I hear we don't. Because we are not talking about the absence of waste water treatment, we are talking about the fact that before we give people a mandate and say: Stick me $80,000, we must be sure that there is proportionality in what is going on, whether there is a link between the cost of this action and the effect it is about. Here it is about having a good condition in the creeks, and if it is the case that changing the physical conditions can make it possible for a great many thousands of people to avoid having to pay for this command, then we think it is preferable precisely for reasons of proportionality. It is, in fact, a principle of administrative law which is quite important to enforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100852	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100855	Yes, but it's also about wherever people live in the country... it's a principle we've adopted... you have to join. It has been under way for many, many years, and now it is being implemented. Then we have said that those who find it very difficult to raise this money would like to give a hand, because it must of course be so that it is economically possible for everyone. But the world is now upside down, because what the bourgeois parties are doing is putting an extra burden on agriculture, because if we do not deal with it in this way, we will have to impose additional requirements for limiting emissions from agriculture. I think it's kind of funny. I cannot really understand why the parties behind this amendment cannot see that there will then be additional burdens that we will have to impose on agriculture in order to reduce its emissions. So I think it is a rather strange amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122100947	I have no idea where agriculture comes from in this context. What we are seeing is that people are being imposed without being able to prove, in a purely professional way, that there is an effect of the laws in question. What this has to do with agriculture, I find it hard to see. It is therefore all a matter of not shooting grey sparrows with cannons, of doing the things that are necessary and the things that we know work, and not just mechanicalally from the BBR register as it is today, slam out the commands, because we do not really know whether the commands work or they do not work. And that is what we are saying: before sending out that command, one should just check whether there are other options that give the same or a better effect on less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101032	Sir. Torben Hansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101036	Thank you, sir. President. Social democracy is also full of wonder at the amendments tabled by the Liberal Alliance and the entire blue bloc. After all, the government and the Social Democrats have just made this proposal, because we want to help those living in the open country with the huge task of sewering and decentralisation. What this amendment is quite simply about is that I can understand it from Mr McMillan-Scott's point of view. Villum Christensen says that if you change the words a little, then it is quite all right that there are thousands of households that are still pouring uncleaned waste water into our streams. Is that not basically what the amendment is about? Can the rapporteur also confirm that it has indeed been proved in relation to these water plans that this has the desired effect? We must, of course, have sewers for the fecalities, excuse the expression that comes from these properties in the open country, and what we are doing with this is actually helping the people who live out there, in other words those with low incomes. We are handing out a helping hand, and it will take a few years for them, and they have a few years of grace, and there we are helping them. The only thing that is going to happen with your amendments is that we will not be helping those people and that, in a way, we will also just ensure that the water status of our streams and our streams and our lakes remains poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101156	I find it quite difficult to see that you do not help those people so that they do not have a meaningless command, because the municipality can do something else that achieves the same. Then I think that these people are really being helped more than by giving them a loan which they can then add to the loans they already have, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. After all, this is common sense, namely that we should not do more than what can be professionally demonstrated. And what is happening today is that I know a little bit about it, because I'm in a municipality with this responsibility, so I know it's that you in the municipalities don't do the right surveys that can show that there's a connection between commands and the condition you want in the stream. That coherence simply does not exist. It's just like I said with the windmills. You calculate, but you have no idea. So this is really timely care, that is to say, making sure that people do not incur a cost that does not actually have an impact in the environment. It's not about doing less for the creeks. It's about doing it most cost-effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101300	Sir. Torben Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101303	I find it very difficult to see that this is due diligence when you are actually standing on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and pleading that you should pour unclean waste water into our watercourses. What lies in this proposal, the original legislative proposal, which is now trying to make changes to the amendments that we are voting against, is that we are actually helping these people here. But let's go deeper. Well, it's kind of solved what you actually want. Now something has been said about whether or not you can change the physical state of the watercourses. Is that really what we have to offer in this amendment? It does not solve the problems, it has been seen for many years. The only thing that sort of solves these problems is that we have a system that helps these people and that we have uncleaned sewage cleaned before it gets into our watercourses.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101353	I am surprised that the rapporteur does not believe that watercourse restoration is an effective means, because it is in fact already included in the river basin plans that something similar to a quarter of the river basins can be improved by watercourse restoration alone. So it is actually a great surprise that the rapporteur is not aware of the resources that are contained in this system. I'm just saying that it may well be that people have to be told, but we have to make sure that it is necessary ■ that is what is important. And if you can do something down the creek and get a really nice fauna down the creek, that's what this is all about. So why not do it rather than bother people? That, in its simplicity, is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101442	We have a few brief comments to make. The mumble has become a little too loud, especially on the right side of the hall. Mrs Lone Loklinde for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101454	Thank you. I must also say that from the radical point of view I have read this amendment because what we have been working on for a very long time is actually catching up with the backlog that some municipalities have, because they have not put in with waste water treatment in time. These are things that should have already been in place. Some very long deadlines have been set, and right now some municipalities are lagging behind in particular. However, what the rapporteur is talking about is, in fact, our water plans in general. This is gonna be a discussion about how the watercourses are in general. It's a completely different type of effort. There we have a monitoring of how this effort should be in the watercourses, and it is certainly very new if you know how to bend a stream should be able to continue pouring out all the nitrogen and untreated waste water in the world. Is that really what the Liberal Alliance thinks is the purpose of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101607	Now it is the case that waste water treatment of buildings in the open country is not required if you have a fauna number called 5. When called the fauna number 4, you have to clean your sewage. Then what we're saying is that to get from the number 4 to the number 5, which is the purpose of the whole thing, we'd rather do something down in the creeks, ensure a good biological condition down in the creeks by changing the physical conditions rather than imposing a command on people. In other words, it is the fauna that is crucial and there are already a lot of properties that are not subject to wastewater treatment because it has no environmental effect. Once again for Prince Knud: it is therefore to have a more cost-effective environmental policy that we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101703	Mrs. Lone Loklinde.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101706	The rapporteur is right in saying that only waste water efforts are carried out on those streams where waste water is a problem. But now that plans have been made and much thought has been given to this, we have been through many times, where waste water is a problem, it is with great wonder that I hear that you will now really say: we are looking at this very big thing, now we just stop coming to the help of the citizens who live in municipalities who have been running freewheels so that they can get the right solutions. I believe that there can be a great many reasons for choosing affordable solutions in some places rather than the large roll-out of sewer pipes. And you can tell those utilities that they have to look at it first. But it's very strange that now that we're in the process of getting our citizens to help, the right wing in this parliament will really put this whole sewage treatment plant at a standstill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101813	After all, I still think that we will be more helpful to the citizens if they get away completely and if we find other solutions rather than giving them a loan which they are likely to find difficult to repay. We have heard plenty of examples of this from Lolland. So once again, this isn't to do less. This is to do some things which, moreover, correspond to the way in which the rivers are measured, namely by using the fauna number, where you do not go down and look at the chemical conditions that some seem to be very concerned about. It is actually to achieve the same goal in an easier way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101852	Mrs Pia Adelsteen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101855	Thank you so much. We are in complete agreement on this, and the Danish People's Party also supports the proposal. But when you hear the questions that have been asked in the past, you get the impression that as soon as you're out in the country and you live out there, you're practically allowed to pour your toilet barrel on the ground. Is this not the case, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that most people living in the countryside have septic tanks, by the way, with a municipal discharge scheme, etc., so that it is not just waste water that is discharged into streams and streams? It's just to get it straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122101933	Yes, exactly. After all, we have cleaned our waste water out in the open country in a low-practical way by two- and three-chamber septic tanks for decades. What then runs on typically runs into some drain pipes and is diluted a lot of times before it reaches the stream, and there it is, then we ask: What is the effect down the stream? It is strange somewhere that hundreds of tonnes of manure can be toned out in the fields from pigs, from a farm that may have 3,000-4,000 pigs, while the same farmer's small fart must be cleaned of DKK 80,000 before it diluted, I do not know how many millions of times, runs down the stream. These are just the proportions I would like to see in this, and that is why I mentioned that the principle of proportionality applies in Danish administrative law. You can't just charge people a lot of expenses if you're not able to prove professionally that the problem in question is solved by this effort. So yes: We have always cleaned our waste water by emptying schemes out in the open country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102037	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102040	I would just like to say a very brief word of thanks for the very clear announcement. Because it works when you hear what's going on in here, as if most people apparently live in apartment and don't know how it's going on in the countryside. So thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102052	Does the rapporteur have a comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102054	I don't think anything else will come out of that sausage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102057	There was one more brief remark from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, or wasn't there? No, it was not; it was a mistake and I thank the rapporteur. Then I'll see if anyone else will speak. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102121	I feel a little need to see if we can clarify some things, because I think that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance here is getting mixed apples and pears together, and I also think that there is a need to establish what the purpose of this bill is, because it might be a little confused if you sit out there listening, having heard this debate. The purpose of this bill is to give an economic hand, a helping hand, to the citizens whom we have recently seen some really boring examples of have ended up being reported to the police because they have not been able to pay for, for example. a decentralised purification system or a connection to the sewage system. As I think, this has also been expressed in our speeches between the parties, there has been a broad desire in the Folketing that we do something about it. That is why we have had a long process, where we have also had discussions with the parties in the Folketing, how we could solve this problem. I think we have a common interest in and a common desire that we do not criminalise some law-abiding citizens, by the way, who are being met by this demand for sewage treatment. Then, as we have been able to hear and see during committee proceedings, there has been another discussion which has been about the water plans and the whole talk about whether there is a need at all to solve this environmental problem of untreated waste water that runs into our streams and streams. And that is really what the last amendment that has been tabled here in connection with the third reading revolves around, and what Mr. Villum Christensen has talked about here from the platform: whether or not the Liberal Alliance believes that there is any need for us to have the waste water cleaned out in the open country. There we have to say that we in the Danish Parliament have a fundamental political disagreement. There we in the government parties are completely firm in the meat that we need to clean the waste water in the open country. There is then, we can hear, a different view from the rapporteur and, I must understand, from the other bourgeois parties too, which say that there may be no need for this effort at all. That's why I'm telling you, sir. So Villum Christensen here mixes apples and pears together. Because if you think that you can solve the problem caused by the uncleaned waste water in our streams by making physical changes in the watercourses, then here are some things you get mixed up. Because when it comes to the waste water that comes into our streams, it is the organic material that comes into the streams that causes some problems. It is the nitrogen and phosphorus that go into our coastal waters and our lakes that cause some problems, and I think that is where the parallel to the effort in relation to agricultural emissions, which was what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen raised, comes in. After all, there is a great deal of attention in agriculture to whether we are dealing with the problem of waste water discharges, precisely because there is a discussion about nitrogen and phosphorus emissions from agriculture. So that's where the parallel comes in. So there are different purposes for the physical changes in the watercourses and the efforts to clean our waste water. However, I certainly have a need to establish here from the platform today that the government is firmly committed to making an effort, as we have put forward with the water plans, to clean up the waste water flowing into our streams and further into our coastal waters and lakes, in order to ensure a good environmental state out in our watercourses. At the same time, we want to respond to the broad desire in the Folketing to make an economic contribution to the economically most deprived citizens of the open country. That is what we are proposing with this draft law, and I am really glad to see that, despite the amendments that have been tabled, there will also be a broad majority in the Folketing supporting the establishment of such an aid scheme. I am very pleased about that, and I think we owe it to the many citizens out there who have experienced these economic problems. I think that is a socially responsible environmental policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102529	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102533	It is just a very short one, because it is quite true, as the Minister says, that we are of course in favour of helping these people who have been in trouble. But they are in trouble because in this Parliament we have made some water plans that might make them need to borrow money to invest in something that is ultimately probably not helping the environment everywhere. And that is actually just what we are pointing out with this amendment, namely by saying that, if waste water needs to be treated, municipalities must of course ensure that it is done, but that there are also places where septic tanks with municipal discharge are used, where it helps and where sewage collection would not necessarily improve the environment. And I just think that the Minister should acknowledge that this is the way things can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102621	But that is also why I am saying that there may be a political disagreement in terms of the water plan effort, but that is just not the purpose of this bill. That is why I am appealing for support, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for continuing to support this bill, because I think it is important that we also signal by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that we want to give this support to economically needed citizens. But there may be a political disagreement as to whether or not it is important to clean the waste water. The government parties think it is. If the municipalities have had objections in relation to the water plans and the action to be taken there, then they have had the opportunity to make it known during the consultation process. Now we have just sent second-generation water plans into consultation, and there we have the opportunity to have the dialogue, whether it is considered that the action we are proposing is also appropriate in relation to the environmental problems that are out there. So it is possible, as a municipality, to object to the efforts made in the water plans, but it is there and not in the legislative process of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102719	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102721	Just very briefly: well, I would ask the Minister not to divide it up like that, that blue block obviously does not want waste water to be cleaned, because that is not the case. Of course we'd like to have the sewage cleaned. We simply recognise that it does not necessarily have to be through sewers and through some sewage treatment plant, but that it can be done in some other way and still achieve the same environmental benefits. And I just think the Minister should acknowledge that, that is to say, there are other methods than necessarily requiring people to borrow up to DKK 80,000. for sewering, which may not change anything peculiar.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102801	But the municipalities also have good opportunities for this today. Decentralised treatment solutions can be established if it is considered to be the most appropriate, rather than requiring everyone to be connected to the sewage system. It is, in fact, a decision that lies with the municipalities. What is in the water plans is, after all, an effort to clean the waste water. However, if you in the municipality consider that a decentralized cleaning solution is the most advantageous and may even make it cheaper for the individual citizen, then you have the opportunity to do so already today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102831	Sir. Villum Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102834	I think I have just one question for the Minister, and it is a question of whether the Minister agrees with this because it is of course important that the things we do in here are based on a professional basis • that the Nature and Agriculture Commission notes that there are very marginal advantages over the condition of the creeks by cleaning the waste water out in the open country. Does the Minister agree with that view? Otherwise, I can tell you where it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102902	But I also think I have given a written answer to that and have just asked for it to be clarified, because I do not really recognize the interpretation of it, as Mr. Villum Christensen has. And by the way, I can say that we have had, I think, a long-term dialogue with Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen directly. I have made available the official work to enable us to clarify the questions which Mr. Villum Christensen had to have about this area, and I think I've done that kindly in trying simply to get to the bottom of this case. And there we have also pointed out that, in this way, there is a very clear legal basis for this and for the efforts of the municipalities in this area. I can only note that we then continue to have a political disagreement and I think that we may not quite reach that agreement. In any case, we have had a long dialogue gradually, including at this very technical level, in the attempt to clarify these issues, as Mr Beyer de Ryke has said. Villum Christensen has had.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102958	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122102959	It is true that I have been to a meeting with the officials, and thank you for that. But it is not true that there is a clear legal basis. This is not because the legal basis requires that the matter of injunctions be disclosed in a way that shows that there is a link between the injunction and the problem to be solved, that is to say that there is a professional basis. And no municipalities do environmental studies. No one can know if there is a connection, that is, a cause-effect relationship. So the legal situation is very, very poor. That's why you go out and say it's enough to calculate it. And that calculation is based on a Supreme Court ruling that says something quite different from this. So I very much disagree with the fact that there is a legal basis. There is certainly very poor legal certainty in this area for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103056	Well, I do not agree with that, and that is where we come to different conclusions in the light of the extensive dialogue we have had. And we just have to say that we will probably not reach agreement on that. I was then unable to clarify where it is; the Nature and Agriculture Commission says it, as Mr. Villum Christensen claims. But we must also take that afterwards, because I think it is quite important that we clarify these issues so that there is no uncertainty as to whether we still need to clean our waste water in the open country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103126	Thank you, Minister. As far as I can see, no more people want to speak. As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103140	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of Villum Christensen (LA) and can be voted now. I shall conclude the vote. For 46 votes (V, DF, LA and KF), 56 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), 56 abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103217	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103226	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 77 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against 27 (V), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103257	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103312	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 105 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103334	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103349	I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103435	I shall conclude the vote. For the vote: 97 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 8 (EL), abstentions: 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103502	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103519	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 92 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstaining from voting on 13 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. We'll take a short break.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103641	The debate is open. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122103702	This bill is the main part of the settlement. Let's try to take some history in this area. In 2009, in their housing reconciliation, the VK government made a governance reform and a financial reform of the general sector. In particular, the governance reform gave the housing departments a more forward-looking cooperation with the municipalities. In 2010, the VK government made a housing settlement that had a ghetto package, and here the comprehensive plans for the ghetto areas were introduced. These were some very visionary and progressive accommodation reconciliations. With this reconciliation there are no visions, no new initiatives; you just empty the Landsbygningsfonden up to 2032. It is not otherwise because the problems in the ghetto area have disappeared, because we still see parallel societies in a number of ghettos. There has just been a broadcast about the Grimhøjmosque, and this broadcast clearly illustrated that the parallel society is flourishing in Gellerup. There is little integration or understanding of the society in which you live. A few years ago we had the whole miser of the Christmas tree or the lack of the same in Egedalsvænge, where a majority of the association would not allow the Danish minority to have a Christmas tree. We still have stories of burns and attacks in ghetto areas, and in many places representatives of the television channels cannot move into the ghetto areas without having security companies take care of them and their equipment. Recently, an analysis from Weekly Letter A4 showed that whole postcode areas e.g. in Brøndby Strand and Brabrand, soon will have more immigrants than ethnic Danes. In individual residential areas there is already a majority of immigrants. For example: 8 out of 10 residents of the Gellerup Park in Brabrand are immigrants or descendants of non-Western background. It is also not long ago that we in this Chamber had an urgent question about the Grimhøjmosque, which is located in Brabrand. As I mentioned earlier, the mosque contributes to an unhappy radicalisation of Danish Muslims and is supposedly the place of the so-called Syrian warriors. The problems of parallel societies and ghettoisation are actually so obvious that the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs admitted at an honest moment recently that we have some areas with very great challenges, yet the government in this bill does not really want to address the challenges. The Left does not find it acceptable with residential areas where there is concern for legal certainty. The Left does not think that parallel societies are acceptable where Danish democracy or Danish law are not respected. With this settlement, however, the government does not find the opportunity to give the housing departments more tools to combat these problems. The housing committee was recently visiting Mjølnerparken, and it was very uplifting to see the progress being made in Mjølnerparken. Active action against hiding places has succeeded in achieving more openness, and more active housing social efforts have led to good results in this area. It would have been natural to be inspired by the Mjølner Park and some of the other good examples of what to do. Among the only measures the government could come up with is a travel team to travel around to some ghettos. But does the government really think that is enough? The second reason why the Left is against the bill is that it drains the Landsbygningsfonden as far as 2032. The Landsbygningsfonden is an independent institution financed by contributions from the general housing organizations. The payments are not always in line with the statutory renovation framework, which is why the Landsbygningsfonden is sometimes obliged to repay. Of course, it can work, but only to a certain limit. In the Left, we believe that the limit is being reached. The Landsbygningsfonden will be in debt until 2032. This high level of indebtedness is now threatening the economic viability of the Landsbygningsfonden. We are beginning to wonder whether the fund will ever be debt-free. It is extremely important that new and better general housing is built and that the existing general housing sector is constantly renovated and improved. The Landsbygningsfonden plays a key role in fulfilling this task. It would be a pity if the Landsbygningsfonden were so over-exploited that it could no longer contribute and that would put the general housing sector in a very bad situation. The Left votes against the bill in the light of the lack of initiatives in relation to ghettos and the excessive indebtedness of the Landsbygningsfonden.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104143	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104147	Yeah. I understand on the Left that it is a very important point that something is being done to promote integration in the vulnerable residential areas. I must say that we in the SF too are in complete agreement with that. The fact is, with this housing agreement, we allocate 465 million annually. kr. to help solve some of the social problems that exist in the vulnerable residential areas, including a number of things that promote integration. It may be providing young people with a leisure job, and it may be with help to families who are in various difficulties, through residential social workers, but promoting integration will do so. And then it seems to me odd that the Left will definitely vote against this bill. That must mean that instead of 465 million. kr. A year to promote integration and solve social problems, the Left believes that only DKK 0 should be allocated. How is this strange vote to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104256	After all, it was not exactly the housing social effort that we wanted to save, because we are, of course, very happy that the government chooses to continue the housing social effort that the VK government started. The housing social effort was something that began in the time of the VK government, and here the level of housing social work has been maintained in recent years. I'm glad you don't downgrade it. I am also glad that it is not removed. I would have liked to see perhaps more priority being given to ghetto action and to a number of initiatives rather than just maintaining the current ones. But it's better than removing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104326	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104328	Yes, for us in the SF, it has also been extremely important in these negotiations in which we have participated and in which we are part of the conciliation that has been concluded that 465 million will continue to be allocated. kr. Every year for this housing social work. But I must admit that I am surprised if the fact is that the Left has become a party which no longer votes for progress but only votes in favour if even more is achieved. I thought that the Left was a party that would vote for the progress that is coming and see the positive, and there are the 465 million. kr. In the case of housing social work, it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104411	It is not a step forward to maintain the current effort, but it is not a step backwards either. I'm glad you don't take backwards. But what can be said is that the problem is that the Landsbygningsfonden is being indebted so massively until 2032. The second part is that there is a lot of work to be done in the ghetto area. I am glad that the work that started under the VK administration is continuing, but there is a lack of new initiatives. It's okay. It's okay. The challenges that are must be taken seriously and new tools are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104438	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104445	Back in November last year, as you know, the government concluded a broad housing agreement with Dansk Folkeparti, De Conservative, SF and Enhedslisten. That is the agreement that we are now putting into effect in this legislative proposal. With the housing agreement, there is good news for both tenants, employment and the environment. For the tenants, the new housing contract means that in the years to come more than 50,000 ordinary dwellings will be renovated. If we also bring in the previous housing contracts, from 2011 to 2020, 140,000 non-profit housing will be renovated or well and well 1 in 3 non-profit housing. It is a massive investment in non-profit housing that will lift worn-out residential areas and ensure healthy, good, energy-efficient housing. The tenants can also welcome the fact that the agreement focuses on security and well-being in particularly vulnerable residential areas. With the agreement, we are strengthening housing social efforts. We give priority to interventions that can break the negative social heritage and we allocate money to change the infrastructure of residential areas so that they become more an integral part of the surrounding city. For employment, the housing agreement means that an additional 18 000 jobs will be created, primarily in the construction sector. From 2011 to 2020, the total investment will be 50 billion. kr. in the renovation of non-profit housing equivalent to 40,000 jobs. In addition to the modernisation and renovation of thousands of non-profit housing, the high level of investment has also helped to kick-start the economy and to hold hands in employment. For the environment, the housing agreement means that we will have more energy-renovated homes with less heating consumption. Today, the operation of buildings accounts for approx. 40% of total energy consumption in Denmark. In the longer term, therefore, energy renovation of non-profit housing will significantly reduce CO2 There are a large number of initiatives in the housing contract which can also be highlighted. We must work towards lower rents through optimisation and transparency, involving apprentices in renovation projects, and there must be increased cooperation between housing organisations and socio-economic companies in order to create more jobs in the local areas. With the Housing Agreement, we are taking a large number of important initiatives which will make non-profit housing even more attractive to settle in. About 1 million Danes live in non-profit housing. The non-profit housing sector is therefore an important part of our housing market and solves many important tasks. For the Socialists, it is important that we maintain a well-functioning non-profit sector. It is therefore very positive that we managed to bring together a broad majority behind the housing agreement, which benefits tenants, employment and the environment. With these comments, I should therefore like to inform you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104824	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104829	This bill postpones the time when there is a surplus or when there is a balance in the Landsbygningsfonden, from 2027 to 2032. I'd like to ask Mr. Jan Johansen: Can you just postpone it as crazy as you want? So, could one also borrow so much money via the Landsbygningsfonden that it was postponed to 2035, 2040 or 2050? Would that be completely unproblematic? And if there is a limit to how long it can be postponed without it becoming problematic for the economy of the Landsbygningsfonden, Mr. Jan Johansen then explains why it is exactly 2032 that is the right time, and not 2027, as now, before you pass this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122104917	Thank you. Firstly, I am very pleased that 50 000 new non-profit housing are being restored. There are a lot of people in Denmark who benefit from this. The second is that normally we also know that when we restore a house we've bought ourselves, we can take a 20-year loan otherwise 30-year loan, and then it takes just as long until it's paid out. But of course we are well aware that we are spending the money and emptying the box until 2032. That is also why we will review it in two years' time, in other words to see what it really looks like. So we have actually been aware of these things here, but I am very pleased that we are investing in our non-profit housing where one million people live.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105003	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105006	There is no doubt that you can do a lot of good if you borrow some money and spend on it. What is the question is: do we borrow too much money here? And that's where I'd like Mr. Knox. Jan Johansen puts a few words on whether there is a limit to how much money you can borrow, and why that limit is precisely about the fact that we are now extending the repayment from 2027 to 2032. Could have borrowed 1 billion. kr. or 2 or 3 more and have postponed the repayment further, without it being a problem, sir. Jan Johansen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105038	After all, it is now in the conciliation that it is in 2032 that the repayment begins, and that is measured on the basis of what we negotiated. That is why I can only repeat what I said before: in two years' time we will take it up and review it, and then we will see what it really looks like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105100	There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105105	I would like to know whether the rapporteur has seen the issue of the Grimmøjmoskeen; whether the rapporteur has seen these studies showing how much of a population in individual postal numbers has a different background from that of Denmark and the West; whether the rapporteur believes that it is a challenge for society, that we have some areas so inhabited by non-dancing or descendants of immigrants of different ethnic backgrounds, and that in this way they live in parallel societies and do not comply with Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105141	Thank you. After all, the government has set targets for halving the vulnerable housing areas, and that is what we are working on. That is also why more than 400 million have been set aside. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. When we negotiated this, we were well aware that something extra had to be done, and we have done so. So we are well aware of the problem and that is why we are doing something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105212	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105214	I have to say that the answer worries me, because there is no mention of the problems at all. You drive well across it by not even mentioning the word parallel society or going into whether people conform to Danish law. Well, it's very important that we take these problems seriously. There are some serious problems in these places with people who don't even believe in Danish democracy. That is something we must take seriously. But I can hear from the rapporteur that this is not something that we are particularly concerned about. There are no initiatives in this agreement to give new tools to housing associations so that they can tackle these problems with parallel societies and non-integration. So I miss some answers and recognition of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105251	After all, the Minister has produced a book in which the experience gained throughout the country is sketched out. It's being used. At the same time, a travel team has been set up which can come out and help deal with the problems and help where it explodes and where new thoughts and ideas are needed; there this travel team should be able to help. So compared to what's happened before, I actually think we've gotten along well with it, and I believe this is gonna work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105328	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105337	Thank you. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal which is the result of a broad political agreement as regards the use of Landsbydfonden funds. It is a good agreement that we have jointly made, and I would say that there are several elements in the agreement in which the Danish People's Party can see itself. Efforts are still needed to improve vulnerable social housing areas physically, socially and economically. The aim is to reduce the number of particularly vulnerable areas, the ghetto areas, and to make vulnerable areas attractive residential areas that are integrated parts of the surrounding city. Security and well-being must be central and comprehensive themes in the overall effort in the vulnerable residential areas where there are problems with e.g.: turbulent behavior among some youths. The Danish People's Party has wanted action to be taken with targeted, focused and effective action against the turbulent behaviour and violence and crime, including the possibility of using parental instructions and young instructions as well as increased use of zone bans. I have asked questions in the past about the application of zone bans, among others. in Bispehaven, and in an opinion from the National Police Department, it is reported that East Jutland Police has stated that no residence or zone ban has been issued in Bispehaven in the period 2012-2014. This agreement will strengthen us. Parents have a great responsibility for their children, and young people have a great responsibility to behave properly. We all remember the dog walker from Vollsmose, who was brutally attacked, beaten and robbed while he was out walking the neighbor's dog. We all remember when Odense University Hospital was stormed because of shootings in Vollsmose. We will not put up with this as a society, and that is why it is important that we, as a society, quit and we must use the legislation to stop it. We have set aside funds for housing social action, including rent reductions, infrastructure and support for demolition, but there is still a great need for action to improve the exposed social housing areas physically, socially and economically. The vulnerable residential areas have difficulty attracting a wide range of residential residents, and I understand that many people choose not to live in the vulnerable areas because they want a secure environment and want their children to grow up in a peaceful, quiet and secure environment. We have done a great deal on the part of the Danish Parliament to ensure good efforts, including through a previous agreement with the then VK government, where one of the major problems was also the unequal composition of residents, as many residents were and are still outside the labour market and a high proportion have been convicted of criminal offences, etc. The immigrants and descendants of immigrants living in the areas come from non-western countries. In order to support a wider composition of residents, following the housing agreement concluded by the VK government in November 2005 with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, the municipal councils were given an opportunity under the General Housing Act to offer relocation grants to residents who move from a general residential area. Several efforts have subsequently been made, and in 2010 a new scheme was introduced to allow better sales of general housing and to mix ownership in the vulnerable residential areas. The municipalities were prohibited from assigning housing in ghetto areas to persons who have just been released after serving and persons who are grossly violating the house order. Municipal guidance should also reinforce efforts to combat the biased composition of residents in the ghetto areas and meet the need for more precise management of the instruction. A right of challenge was agreed for municipalities and housing organisations, which should make it easier to obtain derogations from existing rules if the rules constituted a barrier to housing social action. The lease law was also amended so that citizens who have clearly violated the rules of good practice could be delayed more quickly. We can make several moves here in the Danish Parliament to strengthen the effort, but basically it is also about wanting the community, you want democracy, you want Denmark to be integrated, you want to behave properly, you want to contribute to the labour market and you want to take responsibility for your own life and actions. In the Danish People's Party we will not accept that parallel societies arise or that they are allowed to survive. That is why we must always increase our efforts in vulnerable residential areas. The Danish People's Party supports this bill and looks forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105830	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122105839	Thank you. After all, this bill translates the recently concluded housing agreement between the government parties, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party. It is an agreement that, fortunately, like many other political agreements, includes sound compromises. But when we look at it in its entirety, we in the Radical Left believe that it is a very good agreement and that it is an agreement that we are happy to be part of. There are many important elements in the agreement. The most important thing, as several rapporteurs have said, is this opportunity for massive new investments in the renovation effort, which is already going on on a large scale and which we want to continue. We also think it is of great importance that we secure funds for housing social work so that we can invest in security. We believe that security is one of the main headlines in our general residential areas and particularly in the vulnerable residential areas. It is therefore necessary to invest in the fact that the few are not allowed to destroy it for the many, because it can never be reasonable. So these are new initiatives on this security agenda, which is aimed particularly at ensuring that the good examples mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left are given to work in several places, because we know a lot about what is working in this area. There are a great many tools, and there are also tools that are not being used to a large extent, and we must work on that. But it's a security-building agenda together with this push to get on with the renovation efforts, which in many places, for example in Aarhus, where I am from, helps to fuel some of these large-scale plans, which, when they're done, will give some new and far better and far more functional areas for the people who live there. This will also help to create what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was talking about, namely this transformation from vulnerable residential areas to, hopefully, becoming attractive areas in the future. This is not the kind of thing that happens over night, and it is certainly not an easy job, but I think that this agreement gives birth to the fact that it can continue to happen and that this is a job that we take seriously here in the Folketing. That's why the Radical Left can so much support this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110139	There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110145	That sounds very nice, and it is also very easy to agree that something must be a security-building measure, but it is a little harder to do so. Some of the initiatives mentioned by the rapporteur, for example: that the good examples should be disseminated is something that is already happening from the Centre for Housing Social Development, a centre which was set up in 2010 with the housing settlement under the VK government. Similarly, the housing social effort of which so much is prided is only continued; it is also something that was already started a long time ago. What new initiatives in this House settlement would the rapporteur think should create security?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110223	It is absolutely true, as the rapporteur says, that many good things are going on. I think it is important to strengthen the effort to get the good initiatives out, to make the sharing of experience happen, by which I mean something like the travel team, as several rapporteurs have mentioned. I also think that they say to them what's such a thing? I also believe that there may be some things in the existing tools that the rapporteur is right about are things that have arisen in previous agreements that have been concluded in here and that the Radical Left has also been involved in good things, which may be used too little, but which could be used even more. We must continue to work on this, and I think this agreement is in the process of dealing with some of the initiatives that are being taken on the security agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110340	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110344	Yes, with regard to this tale of continuing the good examples and continuing the good initiatives, I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that these are some good things we have done together in 2010 and 2011, i.e. the reconciliations that were made then, with the ghetto agreement, the governance reform and the financial reform. However, with what the rapporteur says, the travel team is the only new team to travel around and tell us how to do things better, because it is obviously not possible to find out in the residential areas, the conclusion of the government parties must be when it is necessary to send people out. So, I think it is good to spread the good examples, but some new initiatives are missing, because we still have problems. And the problem with this bill is that there are no new tools for housing associations, there are no new things they can do. Why don't you come with some new tools?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110431	There are means to continue a housing social work that works in many places. The rapporteur himself mentioned this. There are new initiatives to disseminate the good experiences that the rapporteur also mentioned. There are new initiatives in relation to taking more oaths on housing companies and focusing on these areas, among others. through the contingency plans, and then there are initiatives to strengthen this very work with the wide range of tools, the large palette of tools that are, which just works better in some places than others. That is why the exchange of experience and dissemination of good initiatives must be quite important, and I think that has been highlighted here, and funds are being found to move forward. I think it is simply so interesting that the rapporteur from the Left, with a punch on the bag 25 times, has said new initiatives without even mentioning a single example of what such a new initiative could be. She has had a whole rapporteur's speech, asked a number of questions and said new initiatives, new initiatives, without even making any concrete proposals, plus the fact that the rapporteur has had the chance in the negotiations that we had and the rapporteur was also invited to come up with some new initiatives, to come up with some ideas. The Left has chosen not to do so, and then you sit and say: how nice it is that we can put words on the security agenda and so on. But I also think it is a little nice and perhaps even a little too bold by the rapporteur of the Left to say this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110554	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122110608	In SF, we're happy with the new housing agreement that this bill is putting into effect. 20% of the Danes live in a general home, 1 million people, and therefore it is very important for SF that there are good conditions for tenants in the general housing societies. Many of them have small or even incomes, and therefore the general sector fulfils a very important purpose by ensuring that there are quality housing for that group in our society as well. The government had proposed that general housing should only be renovated for 2.8 billion. kr. annual, but there is a need to renovate more apartments than the number that could be done with the government's proposal. It was simply too small. SF has helped to raise the amount by 50%. to 4.2 billion. kr. Annually in each of the years 2015 and 2016. We are pleased about this because it is then more realistic that we can meet the needs that exist. In two years' time, the conciliation parties will have to decide again what will happen in the coming years, and this will be done on the basis of different considerations. One is the need for renovations, the other is the economy, and the third is the employment situation in the construction sector. SF has also attached great importance to ensuring that housing social work continues to the same extent as in the past and is not reduced. There is a huge need for this. It also came out in a news story yesterday, among other things. on television, which showed that a new study showed that 35% of the population in the United Kingdom were in the United Kingdom. of young people under the age of 18 in vulnerable residential areas are at risk of entering a very bad spiral, which can ultimately lead to crime • 35%. Here, the housing social effort is crucial. An extra effort is being made to ensure that young people do not drop out of the education system. One of the ways to get them a leisure job. It creates stability in their lives and brings them into a good path. However, several arrangements are also made with mentors, social care providers, support for association and leisure activities, and financial advice is also provided to families and many other things. So for us it has been crucial that in each of the next four years 465 million have been set aside. kr. to this central housing social work. Here I understand that when the Left votes against this, it has the consequence that then 0 kr will be set aside. for housing social work. So I understand that the Left has now become an all or nothing party in the context of certain other parties which I do not believe are otherwise the normal party of the Left. Energy savings are also very important for SF. This means, as I believe the Socialist rapporteur also said, that tenants will have less heating costs, but it also means less CO2 No one can be interested in that. In the renovations of the apartments, improvements are put in place to save energy up to the requirements of the building regulations. However, there is a need to go further, and SF has therefore provided more money for even more ambitious energy efficiency improvements that go beyond the requirements of the building regulations. The government had proposed that 250 million be set aside for this purpose. kr. over the four years, and in SF we have been a main force in getting set up by 40%. to 350 million kr. These are energy efficiency improvements which, at the same time, can serve as demonstration projects, which are also a very good purpose. The SF has been included in the agreement and in what the bill says, we are now having a study that can be used to ease the way for socio-economic companies in the vulnerable residential areas. Social economic companies help to provide jobs for people who do not have full working capacity but who in various ways need care because of the reduced working capacity which may have physical or mental causes. It can, for example, be done. be employed in flex jobs or spare jobs. This principle of the inclusive labour market is very, very important for the SF, and we are therefore very pleased that a study is being carried out on possible barriers for social economic companies, so that it will be easier to establish them in vulnerable residential areas where the need to create such jobs is particularly great. So all in all, the SF can vote in favour of the bill, and then I should like to say from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here today, that the Enhedslisten will also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111102	There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111105	When I listen to the rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentions that there are three things to be looked at when it comes to considering whether more money should be set aside in the Landsbygningsfond for renovations in two years' time. I did not write it down quickly enough, but the way I remember it, it was the need for renovation, it was employment and social conditions. The economy of the National Development Fund is not at all involved, I understand. I am surprised that if you really care about the general sector, you do not care about the sustainability of the Landsbygningsfonden, because it is a problem that you make a four-year agreement which extends the repayment period by five years. It questions whether the fund will ever be free of debt and whether it can maintain borrowing money at such a low price. So I want to know whether the SF has completely escaped all reins to financial accountability after SF is no longer a government party, and therefore is completely indifferent to the economy of the Landsbygningfonden.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111210	We have certainly not let go of all reins in the economy of the Landsbygningsfonden, just as some of the other conciliation parties, such as the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, which are also included in the agreement, have not escaped the economic reins either. These are some of the bourgeois friends of the Left. There will be work in the committee in the future to analyse the economy of the Landsbygningsfonden, so that no unfortunate situations arise where the economy and the future of the Landsbygningfonden are at risk. As a starting point, however, there is not a great risk at this moment that something stupid will happen in this respect, because the Landsbygningsfonden, through the system established for rent payments in the general sector, is guaranteed large revenue for decades to come. So there's no immediate risk in it. But it is true that it needs to be analysed and that it needs to be looked at, and it will also happen after this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111306	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111309	I understand that's part of the deal. What was my question was whether this is something the SF would like to focus on, because it was not one of the things the rapporteur mentioned in his speech. There was not one of the focus points of spending more money and the sustainability of the Landsbygningsfonden's economy; there it was only renovation needs, social conditions and the employment situation. I have to say that, for me, it is therefore essential that we have a durable construction for the general sector and that the economy of the Landsbygningsfonden can be linked for many years to come. The rapporteur tries to suck all sorts of other parties into it, but it is not because the rapporteur says that it is something that you will look at as part of your thinking when you have to decide how much money you will spend next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111350	I think we are being listened to in a rather unkind way, because when I mention this here about the Landsbydfonden economy and the work that needs to be done in order to secure the economy in the future, it is an expression of the fact that there is a foundation here which we agree should be in order, and that is what it is today. However, it is probably characteristic, unfortunately, that the Left does not make these suggestions as to what new tools they want in the housing social work, nor does the Left comment that they have become an all-or-no-no-no-no-party, which is in fact voting against this legislation. It would be a good thing if the Left were to vote in favour at least, so that we do not want, for example, to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. must be zero kroner for housing social work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111432	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111440	With this bill, loans will be raised in the Landsbygningsfonden, which will then primarily be used to renovate general housing. You have to understand that the Landsbygningsfændelsen's money at least in our optics is somebody else's money than the Danish Parliament's. They belong to tenants who are members of non-profit housing companies and who pay a rent. Then at some point, when the loans have been paid out, the money paid in rent will go into the Landsbygningsfonden. There is not yet a surplus in the Landsbygningsfonden. The Landsbygningsfonden borrows for the projects initiated by the Danish Parliament. It is certain that in future there will be a huge surplus of billions. And that can be sensible. But there has to be a relationship between the loans you take and the money that comes at a time that is healthy and economically viable. During the negotiations, the Liberal Alliance has tried in vain to get the government to explain that what is going on now is economically viable and that the period of deficit in the Landsbygningsfonden is being extended from the years up to 2027 to this new law being in the years up to 2032, i.e. 5 years further with deficits. The government has not been able to provide a note showing that it is sustainable to do so. It has been said that work is under way and that, at some point, we will have an account of the longer-term development of the Landsbygningsfonden's economy and we look forward to it. But it is important to point out that this extension of loans in the Landsbygningsfonden has thus been made before that statement comes first in a few years. Neither the government nor any other party in the Folketing can explain that what you do now is financially responsible and you just do it. It is clear to hear from the rapporteurs from the government parties and from the SF up here that they do so because they want to spend the money. All people want to spend money; it is not a problem to find people who want to spend money. But we should have an answer as to whether it is financially responsible to do so. We are concerned about this, and we are also concerned that what the government initially thought was financially responsible, that is, what the government put on the table when negotiations started has now been extended, so that during negotiations with the SF, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and the Enhedslisten it has become more expensive for the Landsbygningsfonden. The Government initially considered that it had a proposal that was financially sound. And if, at that time, the government had thought that it could easily expand that proposal so that it became more expensive and so that more money was spent which was borrowed in the Landsbygningsfonden, then I think that the government had already done so at that time. It is not the case that the government is opposed to spending money in this area, so if you could spend more, I think the government would have done that already. But then there were some other parties that the government was supposed to bring, and so we cannot support this bill because we have not seen a satisfactory explanation that what we are doing is financially responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111822	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122111830	We Conservatives and a Conservative Housing Minister were in charge of the housing contracts made in 2010 and 2011 • housing contracts, on which this agreement is based in broad terms. These were good, healthy and visionary agreements, and we are very pleased with the elements that have been built on them in this agreement. There are a lot of Danes living in common homes; unfortunately, many of the people also live in worn-out general homes. As has just been mentioned, the Landsbygningsfonden money is not our money. That is the renter's money, which is why it is, of course, only fair that the renter's money is used to ensure that the tenants have up-to-date and decent housing to live in. There are tenants in the general sector who have lived 15, 20, 25 years in a dwelling and have faithfully paid their rent and paid into the Landsbygningsfonden, but who are still in worn-out homes. Of course something needs to be done about this, and for this reason alone it has been important for us to enter these negotiations and change the Government's somewhat unambitious proposals in this area. There is another reason why it was important to us that this proposal became somewhat more ambitious and came to renovate some more homes than the government originally proposed. Apart from the obvious sense that the renter's money is being spent on the tenants' homes, yes, it is also the case that right now we are in a situation where very many people need work, as the economy has still not got off to a good start. Unfortunately, the government has also abolished the housing job scheme, which helped to contribute to work in the craft sector. That is why it has been important for us to raise the framework for renovations, but also to bring them forward to the extent that it was not possible to raise any more, because right now it is important also in relation to the economy and the creation of jobs to have some of these renovations done. That is why we have also been concerned that the amounts for the first few years were as high as possible. In fact, I would have liked them to be a little higher, but that is the way it is when you negotiate. On the other hand, after two years, we got this review in, so we can see what the situation is like. And, of course, from an economic point of view, that is the only sensible thing to do, because in two years' time there will also be housing that should be renovated here and now, probably, more than it will be possible to renovate. But, of course, we also need to make sure that the economy is linked, that, for example, there is a link. It is not an overheating in employment in the craft sector, and we cannot know what things will look like in two years' time, so that is why this review makes sense. There are a few other things that have been really, really important to us. It is, of course, important to be able to continue with the overall plans for housing social action, as several others have also mentioned. It is very, very important that there are safe environments in the general sector. This is, of course, extremely important for the sake of the people who already live there, but also for the future to be able to ensure a mixed housing mix, i.e. that ordinary Danes with reasonable, ordinary income also want to live in these areas. The general sector must be an offer to all kinds of Danes. It has also been important for us to ensure a higher framework for accessibility than was proposed by the government. Many tenants are elderly or disabled, and they need housing where they can get around and where they can be. That is why we fought to raise the framework for accessibility. This is also an agreement that will safeguard the environment. The many renovations in themselves mean a much better energy standard and therefore a much better environment. That's why we also have a special energy effort, which means that the money is drawn from the ordinary effort into something that is extra and therefore maybe creates a little better environment somewhere, but the money is taken away from creating much more energy renovation somewhere else. It is incredibly important for us that those projects are used for demonstration that they can help run a market. Because in this way, and only in this way, they can help to ensure that we get even better energy renovations in the future. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122112340	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122112347	I would like to start by thanking you for your support for the proposal and the broad support I note today. It is of course the case that the proposal implements our agreement of November 2014 on the use of the Landsbygningsfonden funds, which we entered into with the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party. I would like to thank the parties for a good and constructive course. One might also say that we did not agree all the time, even in the first place, but we reached a good agreement, and that is what democracy is all about, namely that we can all see ourselves in an agreement. I firmly believe that this agreement will strengthen the efforts of the vulnerable housing areas, but also of general housing in general. May I not say that there is of course a lot of focus on our vulnerable residential areas, but remember that we actually have more than 7,000 general housing units in Denmark, and there are 33 on the list. It is therefore an area where more than 1 million Danes live, with all sorts of different economic, socio-economic and ethnic backgrounds, all sorts of different kinds of Danes. And that's amazing. If we did not have general housing, I think we would have to invent them, because of course they house not only some of our economically disadvantaged people who need to be integrated, but also a lot of ordinary people who live in well-functioning general housing units and who take responsibility for their fellow citizens every day. And it works. We have also agreed to evaluate the agreement in two years' time. As Mr. Eigil Andersen said, there is a focus on a number of things, but there is also focus on Landsbygningsfonden's economy and sustainability in it. May I not say that there are some who have asked me this way along the way, I think it was both Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, of the Liberal Alliance, whether it is now economically viable. In other words, you do not really have to have the great economic training to say that when you withdraw the Landsbygningsfonden's credit up to 2032, it is 17 years, and when at the same time you have renovated more than 50,000 homes, we count on 53,000 homes, then it benefits the general sector. That's 17 years old. I mean, personally and I think many homeowners have had it like me... I took a 20-year loan when I got new roof and isolated, and I'm still paying off on it. It is reasonable economy as long as we can see that there is a safe and good income. And that is what we know to be going into the general sector. Of course, the draft law also provides substantial funds to continue the housing social efforts in vulnerable residential areas, and this is unfortunately necessary. I would like to say that there is no Columbus egg here. That's the long, tough move that's gonna change these residential areas. I think it was Mrs Liv Holm Andersen who said that we need to look at how we can change it together. And there I would just like to say that when we look deeper into the figures, we can see that there are in fact more people who are now becoming associated with the labour market because of the advances in job efforts. We can see that we have a success here and now with the young people who are starting to get an education. We can actually look at the figures we have from the police that crime in our vulnerable residential areas is beginning to decline. In fact, the most recent answers I have given to the Danish Parliament show that crime falls more in our vulnerable residential areas than it does around Denmark. And crime falls in Denmark. It doesn't come by itself, it's only pocket wool that does it. This is done in close cooperation between the municipalities, housing organizations and residents and, of course, the police with the crime prevention efforts made through these housing social funds. So I'd like to say that we're on the right track, but it's a huge job we're doing. We will also have the opportunity to support new renovation investments for 14 billion. kr. By 2020, and the large number of new money, employment will also be significantly supported. And then we've figured out that it's actually going to give a saving of 140,000 tonnes of CO2 That's, as Mimi Jakobsen once said, pretty much even at the end of the month. We know that it is the case that the emissions from our homes are 40%. of our CO2 So here the general sector also contributes positively to our environmental accounts, and you actually get your heating bill significantly reduced. I was out visiting Roskilde on Monday, where I was out with the housing company Sjælland, who said that some of their residents had had their heating bills reduced by more than 80%, because they had been renovated and refurbished and refurbished. That's pretty significant. We continue, as I said, also the necessary housing social effort, and there Mrs Louise Schack Elholm and others have asked what the new is. Yeah, well, security's new. Security and well-being is a new theme that we focus on. This will be the general theme of assessing the overall plans every year. You have to make sure you have a contingency plan if that is the case, so you know what to do. There will also be a focus on security and crime prevention throughout the renovation section. This is also the case in relation to the infrastructure component when it comes to allocating money to that part of it. And that is new, I would say to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. It may well be that the Left will not take responsibility, but it is actually new. Then there is the negative social legacy, which I am really glad we got along with, where we go in and say that these vulnerable children and young people in our vulnerable residential areas must have better conditions so that they do not opt out of this negative street community. It's different. It is, of course, based on the other housing agreements, I agree with that, but to be as angry as I heard the rapporteur of the Left being today, there is now no reason to be. Cheer up, we're on the right track. After all, all the efforts must deal with the problems of insecurity. As I said, there is a contingency plan in relation to emergency situations, because we believe in the conciliation circle that it is absolutely, absolutely essential if we are to have a better composition, a mixed population, that it is safe to be where you live. It is for all people, it is a basic requirement. Therefore, a high level of security is important to maintain coherence and to bring about positive and lasting changes in our vulnerable residential areas. Then we have set up a travel team because we have been able to see that there are a number of places where some of these inappropriate things happen with unrest, troublemakers who dominate an area and where the few do it uncomfortable for the many. It is to support the efforts being made by police and municipalities today, where we can gather the knowledge we have at national level to support the efforts. I think that is new too. So let me say, if we're going to sum up like that, we're going to hit three birds with one stone. We ensure that the general sector becomes competitive. We are keeping our hands on employment in a situation where it is still needed. And we improve the environment. See, it's not as bad as we say over on Funen. At the same time, we have agreed that in two years' time we will look at the Landsbygningsfonden's long-term economy and see how there is to be coherence in the future. But eat bread. A loan over 17 years, in which we know that incomes are coming, is quite reasonable when, at the same time, we have renovated and made the general sector competitive. So, in fact, I think we are well on our way, and I would like to thank the various parties who have chosen to take responsibility here once again. It's well done, and I'm happy with the good deal we've made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113132	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113137	The Minister says that it is no problem to borrow loans which will be repaid in 17 years up to 2032. It is true that in isolation it is not. But the need to borrow from the Landsbygningsfonden will not disappear in the years to come, will it? There is probably a need to raise new loans in the future, even after 2020 and 2025 and up to 2032, and then suddenly 2032 becomes 2035 and 2040 and 2050 and 2055 maybe. It is just that I am calling for an explanation of what is economically viable and what is not economically viable, because we must agree that there is a limit to how much we can push this into the horizon. There must be a point where this goes from being economically sustainable to not being economically sustainable. Isn't it a little strange that the government will only present such a statement in a few years' time, and not before spending the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113241	I'd like to say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that one does not have to be very economist and understand micro-macro-economic contexts to say that the fact that someone takes a loan, they pay off in 17 years, is not a big problem. Where I think there is a challenge is, of course, where we now make a 4-year agreement and extend the repayment period by 5 years. We are aware of this, and that is why we have also said that we are now evaluating and looking at it, entering into the discussion, but there is no major economic problem. We certainly do not need to have gone to university or journalism for a long time to find out, and it is therefore very incomprehensible that the Liberal Alliance will not take co-responsibility here, but it is clear that in the long term we need to look at how to ensure the continued functioning of the general sector without continuing to prolong the repayment period, and of course we need to have that discussion in the conciliation circle. But you only get that discussion if you go in and take responsibility and do not resign from the club by parties that want to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113337	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113339	This kind of question-answer works best if the answerer is based on what is being asked. I say to the Minister: I am aware that in isolation it will not be a problem if the repayment is extended by five years until 2032. But will the Minister now stop borrowing money in future, so that we only have these loans to be repaid in 2032, or will the Minister continue to borrow in the coming years, so that 2032 becomes 2035 to 2040 will be 2045 to 2050? We're gonna need that analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113414	Now it's the case that sir... Ole Birk Olesen does so, that he puts it into his own context and in his own reasoning for why he is not in it. However, we have made an agreement that is both economically sustainable in isolation and that ensures that we have a significant focus on the improvements and that we can continue the housing social efforts with security at the heart. It's important. Then we have set up a working group which is now looking at how to ensure sustainability in the future. There is good durability in the agreement we have made, but it is clear that we cannot continue to make agreements that prolong the repayment period. I have also said this and therefore those who have taken responsibility can also discuss with each other what it should look like in the future. That's the answer I can give to Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113454	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113458	Well, first of all, I am glad that the government is continuing the efforts that we started on in 2009 and 2010 with housing social efforts, with flexible and combined rentals and overall plans, which were then voted against. So, after all, I'm glad you keep doing that. But I'm surprised it's only in words you do new security things. These are fine new punks, but there are no new initiatives. I have then been aware that every time, in the last comment, the previous rapporteurs choose to ask me to give examples, which is impossible, because I cannot come back and say anything afterwards. It is a good idea to make it as the last comment, because then I cannot answer. I have given examples. For example: I have mentioned that Mjølnerparken has made a number of different proposals in relation to avoiding hiding places, creating more open areas, and one could work further towards that. So I wonder why you haven't learned from some of the things you've seen working in different places and doing it and saying that's what you're targeting it for. Why haven't some new tools been created that make it possible to get more mixed housing in the general housing areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113613	I think it is a little bit about the redberries being angry, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. You would make an agreement that would give 1.5 billion. kr. over two years, and you wouldn't be a part of it anymore. Then you try to invent different arguments. May I not say that the focus is now on ensuring 12%. apprenticeship and internships. We make a housing social effort. I also reported on this in relation to both the infrastructure part and the whole renovation part, and in the housing social effort it is the security and well-being that comes into the center. That's new. These are quite different focus areas from those you had, and there you actually have it with the dark areas disappearing, even when you design the architectural. It might be that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm had to spend some time getting involved in the agreement. That would be good. We are doing demolitions, which we agreed on in a wider growing circle and will have to deal with later today, and that is also new. We are doing this by looking at a working group on the economy of the Landsbygningsfonden. There is an agreement that we must see if we can reap a benefit from efficiency. There are plenty of new points. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Left to get involved in the agreement so that we could discuss it on a sound and objective basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113720	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113723	I am a little disappointed that the Minister does not think I have entered into the agreement. It's as if the Minister doesn't trust me to read my stuff. I have done so, and I have seen the infrastructure framework very well. This is a continuation of the effort that was started under the VK government with the Housing Agreement in 2010, and I appreciate that you have an infrastructure framework. I am just calling for some new initiatives, namely to do something new to mix up the household composition and to have some new focus areas to ensure that we have some open areas in the residential areas where people can meet and be. But that's not what you do, and that's what I want you to do. Then the minister says the redberries are pissed. You could always say that. Now the Minister claims so indirectly that it is the Minister who pays for this. After all, the Landsbygningsfonden pays for this, so it is at the expense of the renovations of future tenants. Future tenants will have to pay for the renovations of the current tenants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113813	I find it a little difficult to find a head and a tail in the criticism, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, but I would just like to say that there are a whole series of new criteria to get renovation aid, including the fact that we are now taking crime prevention and prevention into that part of it. There are lots of elements that are new. I can't explain them all in one minute. I actually tried to spend my time on that before. But I really think it's a little bit about that old word that one of my former colleagues, Jacob Buksti, once said: Vvv doesn't mean the world wide web, but it means what will the Left. It has been a very, very strange discussion that we have had today, I think, because if the Left had taken on a constructive and good role and had gone in and helped to save, we would have liked to have listened to new proposals. I think that the parties here have made a large number of exciting, good proposals in a good and sustainable agreement that improves the general sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113901	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113923	The debate is open. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122113934	We're different in favour of this bill. There is a population migration in Denmark towards the cities during these years. I live in a small town myself, and I think that our rural areas are fantastic areas to live in, and we must, of course, do what we can to strengthen rural development. Unfortunately, however, we have to recognise that the trend is towards the population moving towards cities to a greater extent. That is why we must also take stock of developments and ensure that the volume of housing matches the demand in the areas from which people move. This has been a problem in the general residential area for a long time. There have been many residential units which have been largely empty as a result of the relocation from rural areas. These are homes which were built to meet a need that existed many years ago, but today there is no longer any demand for them. In the Left we have therefore fought for the funds from the Landsbygningsfonden to be used for the demolition of entire general housing units. There are several reasons why empty housing units are injured. Firstly, it creates problems with the economy of general housing companies. This can lead to bankruptcies and foreclosures and, as a result, the municipalities of the country are also facing financial problems by providing guarantees for the housing departments. Secondly, it is also problematic for local development in the area, whose unused housing units are standing and falling. Empty apartment blocks are not conducive to creating life in an area. We want to create good conditions for the citizens of rural areas and continue to make it attractive to live outside the cities. This requires that the areas do not become ghost cities with buildings in which no one lives. I have personally spoken to a number of mayors who have been very concerned about developments. At West Zealand, Lolland, in Central and West Jutland and also in North Zealand, I have met mayors who have warned about the situation. A collection of mayors in Central and West Jutland even sent a letter to the Minister for Housing last October with a summary of the problem. Unfortunately, until now, it has not been possible to use the funds from the Landsbygningsfonden to demolish entire departments. The money has been earmarked for renovations and mergers. Even though one has been able to tear down part of a department until now and renovate the rest, it is not a solution to the problem. A renovation only provides larger and more expensive housing for which there is even less demand. That is why we agreed last year to the negotiations on the growth agreement with a demand that something should be done about the problem. We stuck to the edge of the table, and we managed to get it as part of the growth agreement, that we should look at the demolition of entire housing units. The actual coinage has then been included in the housing agreement. As explained in the last draft law, the Left is not with the Housing Agreement, nor are we voting for the first legislative proposal, but fortunately this point has been split into its own legislative proposal so that we can vote in favour of the long-awaited initiative for which we have fought very hard. However, we think that the government is too unambitious in this area. We would have liked to see the amount set aside in the negotiations for demolitions within the framework that had been set aside for the Landsbygningsfond increased. We're worried that 200 million. kr. does not go far enough to tear down the housing units that are needed. It is good, however, that we can now at least begin to tear down empty housing units. This will benefit all parties: general housing companies, municipalities and citizens. Left votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114315	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jan Johansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114322	Today, the Landsbygningsfonden only partially supports the demolition of residential units. We have, among other things. seen in Gellerupparken in Aarhus. Here's a housing block torn down as part of the area lift. It has been found that there may also be a need to tear up entire housing units. This is just not possible today with support from the Landsbygningsfonden. We are changing that with this bill. A number of general housing units in the outlying areas of the country are unfortunately experiencing falling demand and empty housing. This leads to significant rent losses and makes it more difficult to continue the housing departments. We have therefore agreed, in connection with the Housing Agreement, that the Landsbygningsfonden can support the demolition of entire departments which have a high, sustained housing unemployment. If there is no prospect of a residential unit being able to survive, a demolition may be the only solution. That is what we are opening up with this proposal. Against this background, I can therefore inform you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114445	Thank you. This bill is part of the growth package and also part of the housing agreement that we have discussed today. A number of general housing in the country's outlying areas have asked whether departments which cannot be sold or rented out can receive support from the Landsbygningsfonden for the demolition of entire general housing units. There must be high permanent housing unemployment and the units must be built at least 25 years ago. They must not, according to the Landsbygningsfond's assessment, be allowed to continue. In the Danish People's Party we consider it important to say that demolition is, of course, the last resort, that is, where the conditions are such that there is no prospect that the housing can continue to exist and that they cannot be sold to the other side. Only housing units can be eligible for support for the demolition of entire general services. This was also important in the housing policy negotiations. It is important that we try to make our rural areas attractive, and we are aware that rural areas face more challenges. It is not only empty housing, there is also a shortage of jobs and large relocations to cities. Transport opportunities are often difficult, and schools and sports halls are not a matter of course. Our rural areas must be part of the whole of Denmark and we must work to ensure that it is still attractive to live in a rural area. DF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114619	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114625	Thank you. This bill is also part of the recent settlement agreement between the government parties, the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party, hov, and SF, which I had forgotten. I'm sorry. With this bill, the municipalities and housing organizations are given the authority for further demolition, namely the demolition of entire housing units, where, unfortunately, it is necessary to say so. At the same time, the Landsbygningsfonden will also have the opportunity to support these demolitions financially by up to 200 million. kr. of the 600 million DKK allocated in the period 2015-2018. The Radical Left can support this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114720	When there are branches of general housing companies that have difficulty renting out their apartments, then bankruptcy threatens the housing department, this is a very, very difficult situation. You then try to solve the problem in various ways, including: You check to see if you can sell the buildings to the other side. But efforts cannot always succeed, and there will usually be debts in the property. That is why, as the previous rapporteurs have said, there is a possibility of demolition even today, when creditors are being paid, and now the option of demolition is being extended to include a whole housing unit, where, as the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, only part of a housing unit has been demolished so far and the rest carried on. When this happens, it is really due to the fact that substantial parts of the population move from rural to urban areas, and in Denmark we are in the happy situation that people have freedom, and fortunately they decide whether they want to live in the countryside or in the city. But the moving patterns have a side effect, and that's one of the side effects we're dealing with here. All in all, therefore, the SF can vote in favour of the bill. And Enhedslisten does the same, I have promised to say, because unfortunately the Enhedslisten's rapporteur cannot be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114835	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122114842	If a private investor builds a property for rent in an area, and if it turns out over years that he cannot rent the apartments in that property, then he can do two things. He can sell it for other purposes, or he can tear it down and take the loss. Here it is some non-profit housing companies that have built some properties that they have gradually become unable to rent anymore, and then one should think that they could then do the same as a private investor, that is to say sell them for other purposes or demolish and take the loss. So that's what this bill is going to mitigate, namely, the loss by demolishing. I am not convinced that it is a very good idea for the Fund to be used for this purpose. The best thing was that those who decide that general housing should be built also hang on to the loss if they have made the wrong decision or if the development has been in a way so that they can no longer rent their homes. However, it is a wish of some non-profit housing companies to share in the Landsbygningsfonden funds that they themselves contribute to to some extent, and we are usually sensitive to that, so perhaps we could also be persuaded to support this bill if it were just that. The main problem we have with the draft law is that if, in that situation, you choose to take the loss, not by demolishing, but by selling for other purposes, at the price you can now get for it, you cannot have access to the resources of the Landsbygning Fund here. It's only if you choose to demolish. But the loss can be taken in two ways: it can be taken by demolishing, or it can be taken by selling for other purposes, at a price that is much lower than one's debt. It is not obvious to me, nor should it be for the parties behind this, i.e. that it is always best to take the loss by demolishing. After all, it could be that the buildings could be used for some purpose. Even if selling them causes a loss, it may be that it can be used for a purpose. It can create new growth in an area if these buildings are made available cheaply, because it is the market price these days, for a new purpose. Perhaps a non-profit housing company has a department in a town that is located in what is called Water Kantsdanmark, which is sometimes referred to as Udkantsdanmark, so that the building could be used for holiday apartments if the price is sufficiently low. But if you do so, that is to say selling for holiday apartments, you cannot recover your losses or parts of your losses in the Landsbygningsfonden, it is only if you tear down, you can recover the loss. And it is a waste of resources that the Danish Parliament says in this way: Even though the buildings could be used for something else, we can only and only want to grant a grant via the Landsbygningsfond for demolition purposes. So for that reason, primarily, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122115230	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122115236	We Conservatives think this bill makes a lot of sense. It is, of course, the case that several people have mentioned that there are areas where it is now really difficult to rent out. The fact that you're going to tear down a department, for example. This means that in a department in a neighbouring town, which may also be difficult, you can focus more on renovating it and getting a larger community there, by people moving together in some departments that can then function and can be operated and in which there is a sensible economy. That is why it has also been important for us that this proposal, which was proposed, should not be limited to very specific areas with very few inhabitants. Because sometimes it may be that you end up tearing something down into a slightly larger city, so in reality it will be what creates life in a slightly smaller city, and that is why we are really happy with the flexibility that lies in this bill. We think it is appropriate to face up to the fact that there are simply departments where it is most sensible for all parties, including those who will live in the neighbouring departments in the future, that some departments are being demolished where it cannot run around and where, therefore, there may also be a very dwindling social life for the people who live there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122115404	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122115408	I would like to start by thanking you for this very broad support for the proposal, which I note today. After all, the bill translates our agreement from 2 December on a pool for the demolition of entire general housing departments, which the government entered into with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Conservatives. The proposal gives the Landsbygningsfonden the opportunity to support the demolition of entire general housing units up to 200 million. kr. out of the 600 million. DKK set off in the period from 2015 to 2018 for the demolition of general housing. Moreover, the agreement allows both housing organizations and municipalities to support the demolitions which are known to be done in the partial demolition of general housing units. The aim of the draft law is to address problems of empty housing, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, and which unfortunately are experienced in a number of rural areas of the country, because here we have a number of general housing organisations which have some challenges. I'm looking forward to sir. Ole Birk Olesen also raised the question that we have a good committee work where we can clarify the issues that may exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122115533	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00 with the first reading of Bill No. L 109.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130005	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130032	The last part of the implementation of the Housing Agreement concerns social clauses. The proposal provides for the possibility that general housing companies may require training and practical arrangements when submitting a call for tenders. In the Left, we do not believe that social clauses are the way forward. Of course, we agree that it is important to create internships for young people in vocational training. If the students get into an internship, they get in touch with the labour market and learn how to carry out the craft in practice. But social clauses are shooting gray sparrows with guns. In general terms, we believe that it must be up to companies to decide for themselves who they want to hire. If, for one reason or another, a company cannot or does not have the opportunity to take in apprentices, it should not be penalised by not being able to offer a wide range of tasks. It is easy to imagine a situation in which a very small undertaking without apprentices will have to employ an apprentice in order to meet a social clause, but because of its size it does not need the apprentice after the task has been carried out. Then suddenly there is an apprentice without anything to do just because the company had to perform a single task. Businesses must be free to decide for themselves who they hire. We do not think there should be any requirement for a company to employ. Companies should not have a specific gender distribution or a certain proportion of employees with other ethnic origins. For that matter, there should also be no provision for the number of apprentices. Instead of focusing on the fact that the voluntary partnership agreements that already exist are becoming more widespread, we think. Already in the time of the VK government, the general housing organisations concluded partnership agreements. The partnership agreements mean that a number of practical placements can be directly agreed for the benefit of practitioners. With social clauses, work placements are only created when a company happens to have a job with a clause. We therefore think that it is a bad idea to introduce social clauses in the general field. This bill probably does not make it a requirement for social clauses to be used, but it is difficult to imagine that there will be no pressure to use them when the government's target of 12%. of the employees of the Landsbygningsfonden projects are apprentices, must be obtained. We would rather have the government focus on voluntary partnership agreements for the benefit of both companies and practitioners. Left votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130310	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130318	After all, it is very serious that many young people cannot get an internship. As I remember the current figures, it's over 10,000. What is the Left's proposal to provide more internships when you don't want to use this method?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130337	The Left believes that we need to get employment going, and one of the options could be the reinstatement of the housing job scheme. It helps to create more jobs and thus also more work placements so as to get employment going instead of making legislation that is so rigid.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130350	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130351	The fact is, however, that what is happening here with regard to general housing is that employment is being boosted, and it is therefore natural that we should then call for some practical places to be put in place. Is the task of helping young people with an internship so that they do not end up in crime and do not end up outside the education system, not so big that we have to use a tool like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130421	No, I don't think there's a job that's so big that we have to decide who you hire in a company. But I think it's a really good idea with the voluntary internship agreements, as far as I remember, it was in 2011 that this agreement was concluded with the voluntary internship agreements. I think that was a very good solution and I think that we should go further in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130440	Sir. Jan Johansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130442	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions that the housing job scheme could only be introduced again. It has been introduced several years and we still have 10,000 people who have not had an internship. I don't think that's gonna create anything. Are there no other proposals from the rapporteur on how and how to provide skilled labour in the future? We know that there will be a shortage. And wasn't it an idea for companies to take responsibility for this, because they are the ones who are going to be out of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130515	Well, I think it's interesting that sir... Jan Johansen doesn't think that the housing job scheme creates anything. I think it creates a lot. Firstly, it helps the Danes, and secondly, it creates employment, and it also creates internships. So I can't follow that at all. I would say that I think it is a very good idea with these voluntary work placement agreements that have been going on for the past four years, and it should have gone on in the voluntary track. I do not think we should make quotas either for apprentices or for women or for any other type of person. This is about getting Denmark to grow, and it would be really nice to have more internships, and therefore I think it is a good idea with the voluntary internship agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130554	Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130555	Well, I have not yet heard that the rapporteur has made a concrete suggestion as to how we can get them, because the housing job scheme has run over years and it has not provided any more internships. So there is no other option than the one that lies here, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130609	However, I do not agree that the housing job scheme provides no internships. Because it provides a lot of employment, and it also provides some practical places, so I simply disagree with the rapporteur. After all, we have a large number of other growth initiatives which could provide some work placements, for example. In the area of food, too, where we are laying down some other rules in the area which could also provide some practical places, for example. in agriculture. So there are plenty of growth initiatives, and we have lots of suggestions you can just take for you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130637	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left, and that is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130645	Thank you for that, President. This bill, which we have now come to, translates into the part of the housing agreement which deals with internship and student places in connection with the renovation and renovation of general housing. The contract partners behind the housing agreement recognise the great effort made by housing organisations to provide internships and student places, and we call for more local partnership agreements to be concluded to create additional training places. The government, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten have gone a little further, as we believe that it should aim for at least 12%. of those employed in renovation or construction, supported by the Landsbygningfonden, should be pupils in practical training. The same parties also agree to ensure that legislation allows general-purpose housing organisations to require internships in invitations to tender through the use of social clauses. The Socialists are very pleased that social clauses on internships have been included in the agreement. In this way, housing organisations can help to secure more internships for our young people. The government has taken a large number of initiatives to address the lack of internships, and now we are using another tool. In the years to come, we will be lacking skilled labour. That is why we must train our young people now so that we also have sufficient skilled labour in the future. It is therefore common sense that we demand internships in public buildings and renovation of the general housing sector. For young people, an internship also reduces the risk of falling out of training. Ensuring more internships for young people is a good investment both for society, where we will in future be looking for skilled craftsmen, and not least for the young person himself, who will have a greater chance of a foothold in the labour market afterwards. With these comments, I should therefore like to inform you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130904	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130910	My question is actually quite open and of a factual nature, because after reading the bill, I simply find it difficult to understand the bill. The draft law states that the European Union prohibits such procurement from requiring a certain number of trainees in the undertaking offering the contract. Then it says that the bill will somehow open up the way for this to happen. I can't figure out what's head and tail in the two seemingly opposing things. - Sir... Jan Johansen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122130952	Yes, I think I can clearly do that because we have made the demand, and then we can make the demand, I am absolutely 100% sure of that. The lawyers have looked into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131002	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131004	That's funny. It says in the draft law's comments: "It would therefore be contrary to the rules of the TFEU on freedom of movement and the principles which can be derived therefrom, including the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of nationality, to require the contractor/supplier who wins the task offered to employ either Danish pupils or trainees. This seems to be on nationality. If it is only on nationality, I can see it, but perhaps Mr. Jan Johansen can make me smarter?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131038	At first I don't know exactly what you were reading from there. It could be the Liberal Alliance's little handbook for what they think. I do not know, of course, but I believe that what we are doing is right and that what we are doing is legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131052	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131056	Thank you. I also hope that the rapporteur is aware that this is a little contrary to the legislation that we already have. We in the Folketing have agreed that it is possible to make social clauses. A builder can demand that at any time. When you really go in and make a bill on it for a specific task, it must be because the Socialists do not trust the housing associations. At least that's how I understand it. I would just like to ask: is the rapporteur aware of the so-called voluntary partnership agreements between a municipality and, for example, a municipality? Danish Building?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131136	Of course, I am familiar with that. It just hasn't been enough. And where, in my personal opinion, we can put in and get more internships and apprenticeships, we must do so. We know, of course, that in the future we will be lacking seats. And we're missing about. 10,000 seats today, and we have done so in the years to come, so we will never achieve those quotas if we do nothing extra. I think that all masters who offer such things here should also give society that help so that they can also get labour later. Otherwise they are on the brink of the authorities because they have not provided enough skilled labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131211	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131214	I believe that the rapporteur is not in line with the rapporteur's own minister in this area when the rapporteur claims that 10 000 seats are missing in this area. The reason I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the so-called voluntary partnership agreements is that they are concluded between a municipality and an organisation. It could be Danish Construction. There is an agreement that there should be apprentices present at the construction site. It not only concerns all public construction, it will also deal with all private construction. But it is a little utopian to think that you can have a voluntary agreement while the rapporteur's party in here is advocating that there should now be coercion so that it can be pulled over their heads. So the legislative proposal that the rapporteur supports here today can actually help to ensure that we have fewer internships in the future, because voluntary agreements then go away. Has this been considered by the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131307	Yes, there you actually have, and this is just one more piece to get more apprentices and internships. We have to recognise that we have not met the quotas we had to meet. Otherwise, we would not have been missing so many internships. Therefore, we do it extra well so that we can provide the internships so that we have the skilled workforce, the well-qualified workforce with the skills to be used, to still be able to maintain Denmark and build new ones in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131333	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131336	After all, we have just spoken a lot about the housing social effort, which we have, fortunately, been united in continuing. That is why I am a little surprised that it clearly does not affect social democracy at all when housing organisations themselves say they are terribly concerned about these general rules and constraints, because some of what that will mean is not being able to make some of the voluntary agreements that are being concluded today and which include particularly vulnerable young people from the residential area to be renovated. You will not be able to make the kind of smart individual agreements where a renovation of the young person's housing becomes the stepping stone that a particularly vulnerable young person from the area gets into getting an internship. Can't it worry the Social Democratic Party at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131429	In other words, we keep an eye on what is happening in the labour market, and the social clauses which are also being made voluntarily are of course very much appreciated. But the rapporteur must understand that these quotas are still not met; there should be more apprenticeship and internships than we have today. That has not been achieved, and that is why we must make some additional efforts to ensure that we have the well-qualified workforce on the day when there are a lot of those who are there today who are retiring or retiring. I think it is important that we constantly have qualified labour in Denmark so that we do not have to import it from outside what would actually cost much more in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131509	Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131511	I agree that it is very important that we have a skilled workforce. That is also why it will be a disaster if it results in the many voluntary agreements falling apart. But I didn't really get an answer as to whether I should understand the fact that the price for making these rules must be that particularly vulnerable young people in these residential areas who need to be renovated may well lose their only chance of ever getting their feet on the labour market, because that's just too bad in the big picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131544	I don't think it's gonna matter if they get a job. I just think that with the action we are taking now, there may be more of them coming to work and getting an apprenticeship or a student's place. So I actually think the measures we are taking are very good measures and they are doing the opposite of what the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131602	Louise Schack Elholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131605	I can be concerned that the rapporteur has actually read the answers to the hearings. BL, the National Association of Housing Companies, writes: "The clear advantage of partnership agreements rather than social clauses is that the partnerships are flexible. They allow us to negotiate with contractors on internships and other employment-oriented interventions for local young people. Thus, the renovation cases contribute to both a physical and a social and employment boost in the individual residential area. During periods when the contract does not offer great opportunities for internships, e.g. In a demolition phase we can instead encourage the contractor to offer other employment-oriented interventions, holidays and leisure jobs etc. The same applies if there is no local shortage of internships in the relevant subject. How can we simply talk down the partnership agreements and then introduce the social clauses instead of, which are not nearly as nuanced, not nearly as focused on the local area as the partnership agreements are?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131706	After all, this is something that needs to be used to encourage us to have more student places and internships, and if the voluntary partnership agreements lift much more than that or up to what we set out in the legislation, then I am quite sure that they will be used. This is basically just to get more internships and apprenticeships, precisely because we want companies to take the responsibility that they have to take. We do not have enough apprenticeship and internships yet, so the voluntary agreements have not fulfilled what we want, so that we can have the skilled labour that the Left probably also very much want us to have, so that we do not have to import it from the outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131755	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131757	I do not know whether the rapporteur believes that the general housing sector should ensure that everyone gets internships in Denmark. I think that's unlikely. But these two schemes can't work together. If you read the consultation answer from Dansk Byggeri, you can see that they actually write it: "By introducing social clauses, the partnership agreement concept is challenged, and it is doubtful, according to Danish Byggeri's assessment, whether the two models for obtaining internships can work together. If companies are forced to take a certain amount of apprentices when building for housing companies, flexibility will prevail. developing local solutions for the benefit of the youth of the residential area is being reduced. We've just seen some of the cases we've been looking at, for example. in Mjølnerparken, how it has been possible to involve young people in local building cases and how it has lifted the area at all. Will the rapporteur really ignore this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131846	I feel that what we are adopting now is just one more piece in getting the apprenticeships and internships we are going to have to do. I do not think that the concern expressed by the Left rapporteur is going to come true. Because I really believe that here we will get what needs to be done and that there will be much more attention on these matters here. I know there are a lot of companies that are always nervous as soon as a little extra demands come in when they have to bid for something. But on the other hand they will be happy with us when they get further and can see that there is a lot of labour at home with the qualifications they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131925	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122131932	Thank you. I think the Socialist rapporteur forgot that the Danish People's Party is also part of this agreement when he read his speech. I don't know if it's conscious or unconscious. The Danish People's Party is very pleased with the part of the agreement that concerns training and internship places, where we are just getting increased focus on apprenticeship and internship places; where we call for several local partnership agreements between housing organisations and contractors to establish additional training and internship places. In a previous agreement in 2013, the Danish People's Party ensured that we also had to investigate and follow up the lack of internships and apprenticeships and how many were created. The agreement of 2013 resulted in a study of this, as we wanted to be sure that apprenticeship and internship places were also created. No one could tell at that time how many internships and apprenticeships were created through the voluntary partnership agreements, and at that time there was no support for social clauses, but thank God there was a majority for this time. There is broad agreement now to aim at at least 12%. of those employed in new construction and renovation, supported by the Landsbygningfonden, must be internships, as well as to follow the development and establishment of internships and student places within the framework of the partnership agreements. Finally, there is also agreement between the said parties to establish, in addition to the above-mentioned voluntary local partnership agreements, a legal basis for the general housing organisations. Youth is our future, and we all know how difficult it is to get an internship. We must invest in our youth and we have an obligation to help young people. In addition to these partnership agreements, it is proposed, as I said, that a legal basis should be provided for general housing organisations and so on. may apply social clauses on training and practical arrangements for the specific provision of works and services. The application of those clauses thus becomes part of the legitimate sphere of activity of the general housing organisations, although such social clauses must respect the fundamental prohibition of discrimination by Union law on grounds of nationality. It is a very good deal that the Danish People's Party is in here. We are also pleased that we have increased the renovation framework. It was a tough fight, and we had some tough discussions along the way. We also worked to increase the availability pool so that people with disabilities also have the opportunity to be accommodated when general housing is being built. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132230	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132233	Thank you. Now, such a residential area is a relatively large building, you might say. There we have some rules that it should be put out to tender and so on. How does this compare with the introduction of expectations for apprentices? If so, for example. is a German company that is going to win such a task, or a Polish one, how will the rapporteur ensure that it benefits Danish young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132303	Yes, if it were up to the Danish People's Party, we would like to ensure that it would be Danish apprenticeship and internships. Our hope is, of course, that that is what it will be. We also assume that the majority of them will be, as the majority of those who are lacking apprenticeship and internship are young Danes. We think it's a good deal. It is a follow-up to the previous agreement, where Dansk Folkeparti wanted us to increase the supply of apprenticeship and internships.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132333	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132334	I didn't learn much from that answer. Now that we have a scheme that we are part of in a community, the European Union, which allows us to offer tasks in other countries, and it has Danish companies, it has Danish employment, and Danish young people have great pleasure in doing so, then I miss the answer to how the rapporteur will help to ensure, if it is a foreign company that is winning a job in Denmark, that this will benefit Danish young people, because that is actually what the rapporteur said in his speech, namely that this will benefit Danish young people. If it's a Polish company that wins this, how will it please Danish young people? In the worst case scenario: would it not just be to put Danish companies and Danish young people in an unequal competitive situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132423	I simply do not share the rapporteur's point of view, because it is no different from the voluntary partnership agreements. It might as well be a German company, if it is. So I simply do not share the rapporteur's point of view. This I am 100% sure will also benefit Danish students and young people. That is also the purpose of it. And I would also like to say that we are following up on this. We will meet again in two years' time and see how things are going, even in relation to the voluntary partnership agreements, because this is, of course, a tool that can be pulled out of the drawer if and if it turns out that the voluntary partnership agreements cannot meet the target of 12%.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132505	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132507	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party how the Danish People's Party interprets a passage in the observations of the Act, which states: "As a consequence of the proposal, the municipal council will also be involved in commitments to support new construction etc. What does it mean in concrete terms, in other words, that the municipal council may require the housing company to consider making a social clause? Can the council make demands, or what does this mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132550	I'll try to make it a little clearer. As I read out in my speech, it is the case that social clauses can be made available. So I understand that we simply do not agree on this point and that the Liberal Alliance does not agree with the creation of internships. In relation to going into specific details and specifying what is stated in the legal remarks in the draft law, one can of course interpret what one wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132624	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132628	Well, I'm just thinking that since the Danish People's Party has decided to support this proposal, and since it has even been agreed, the Danish People's Party can say: the proposal means that the municipal council can demand the housing organisation that there should be social clauses or does the bill mean that the municipal council can only propose that consideration be given by the housing company, whether social clauses should be made? After all, there is a difference between being able to make demands on the part of the municipal council and being able to say to the housing organisation that this is something you have to consider. So what is the content of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132707-2	Now Ole Birk Olesen has read the bill, so he knows that. After all, this is about ensuring that social clauses can be required in order to ensure that we create some apprenticeship and student places. It is very good for our young people who are being educated, and it is in this way they who must continue our society. I also read here the other day on social media that there are more young people who lack apprenticeship places. There were carpenters who couldn't get apprenticeships. So that's why it's a really good deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132738	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132745	Thank you. This bill also translates part of the previously mentioned housing agreement, and the bill here deals specifically with the possibility of social clauses in training and practical arrangements in the renovation work. In fact, the draft law gives the general housing organizations the power to impose social clauses on training and practical arrangements for the provision of works and services. In other words, another opportunity is being put into the work of obtaining practical and training agreements; an addition to the existing effort. That is what the Radical Left considers this to be, namely a fine extra tool when an already existing and, incidentally, many places of good work stop. That is why we can support this additional tool given to the housing organisations here, and that is why the Radical Left also supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132902	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132903	I have some doubts as to whether this alone is a tool given to housing organisations or whether it is also a tool given to local authorities. Will the municipal authorities be able to impose social clauses on housing organizations when offering new buildings, or will the municipal councils not be able to impose social clauses on the housing organisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132926	As I understand it, housing organizations are given a legal basis by renovation, the municipal councils are given the authority to build new buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132937	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122132939	According to Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, what the draft law says about the municipal council being able to ensure that the housing organisation should consider applying a social clause means that the municipal council can say to the housing organisation that it must:
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133006	Yeah, by construction. Otherwise, the legal basis for renovation has been given to the housing organizations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133012	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133015	After all, we have discussed with a rapporteur in the past the differences between these partnership agreements and the social clauses. I would like to hear the radical rapporteur on what is the radical logic of preferring social clauses to partnership agreements, since the partnership agreements can provide more employment for those who are local in the residential area, and especially for those in the socially vulnerable ghetto areas. That's interesting. So what exactly is the reason why the Radicals would rather have social clauses than partnership agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133049	But neither will the Radical Left. The Radical Left would like to give a number of tools that can then be taken up and used where they are best used. We see this as an additional tool. And that does not mean that we would rather have this tool than another tool. In fact, if I may say something, I would be inclined to think that the voluntary partnership agreements mentioned by the rapporteur would be the best thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133116	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133117	But when the parties then in their hearing answer, especially the Danish Construction Company, indicate that the two models will not work very well together and that they are now being imposed on these social clauses in this way, then it is a question of whether one has to prefer one to the other. After all, this bill makes a choice and takes the social clauses rather than the voluntary partnership agreements. So how on earth can it be that you're in favour of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133147	But I disagree with Danish Construction in that premise, and I would also like to discuss it with Danish Construction. For where voluntary partnerships work well and provide internships, there is no reason to use an additional tool. There is reason for this where they stop. So I am in favour of different tools in this work, and I can't really understand why the Left doesn't think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133213	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133221	Young people who take vocational training and are without an internship are in a hopeless situation, and we as a society cannot be aware of this. In SF's opinion, we must do everything we can to provide internships. From the very beginning of the negotiations we have had on the housing agreement, SF has therefore pressed for improvements to be made in terms of more internships in connection with the provision to private craftsmen and construction companies of renovation work and the construction of general housing. During the negotiations, I have urged the Ministry of Housing very strongly to contact the Ministry of Employment in order to confirm that the social clauses in the general housing sector can be introduced. This can be done without conflicting with, for example, EU law. The Ministry of Employment has also been consulted, and it has been established that housing companies can be given the right to do so. Then it is true, as we are also discussing here and now, that general housing companies and construction employers already have a voluntary partnership agreement at national level, which will then have to be followed up by local agreements. It is a very good system, and it is quite seriously meant, also by the SF, that it is good. I simply believe that it is the voluntary agreements that must be put first and foremost. And why is that? There are at least two good reasons for this: one reason is that voluntary and co-ownership is always the best way to make things work best, because then the various parties are best involved in it. The other good reason why voluntary agreements are best is that they have the advantage that you can agree that it should be young people from the local area who get the internships in question. Unfortunately, it cannot be done if it is written into a tender procedure, but that is the rules of the European Union. So when is this bill gonna be used? Yes, it is really to be used where you have not made any voluntary local agreements between the local housing companies and the local departments of e.g. Danish Construction. In other words, where there is no voluntary agreement on internships, it would be appropriate for a housing company to decide to write into the specifications that there should be a number of training places. And that is a very good step forward. The bill thus provides more apprenticeships for young people, and it is very welcome to the over 10,000 who lack an internship. The housing companies will therefore have the right to demand that there are apprenticeships among the companies that win a job of renovating or building general housing. The amendment also means that municipalities may require housing companies to include social clauses on training places in their tender terms for new construction when the municipalities are to approve and grant subsidies for new construction of general housing. Now there has been a lot of debate about whether there was something new in this housing agreement, and this is one of the examples of something new that the Left has actually mentioned a great deal. In this way, this is a new element in the housing agreement for the public sector, an element for the benefit of young people and thus for the benefit of society, I would say, because we all have an interest in young people getting an education. We need skilled labour and the need for skilled labour is increasing, as everyone knows. We are therefore helping with further training places, just as we are helping with the higher renovation framework in the housing agreement in general for employment in the building and construction sector. So SF votes with great pleasure and pleasure for this bill. And since, unfortunately, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur cannot be present, I should like to say that so does the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133635	There are brief comments, first from Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133639	Thank you. Sir. After all, Eigil Andersen could hardly have said it better than I did, i.e. by describing why it is an advantage to have the voluntary partnership agreements rather than this bill. It was virtually my rapporteur's speech that was just fired by there, after which Mr. Eigil Andersen decided to support this proposal anyway. Honestly, it sounded pink, that this is really only used if it's not all good in advance. But the truth is that if the municipality decides to use the social clauses here, it would be a municipal decision that would take no account whatsoever of the local partnership agreements that may have been concluded around the municipality. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133727	I certainly don't think so. The local housing companies that provide a job will know in advance whether there is also a voluntary agreement at local level, for example with Dansk Byggeri, on training and internships. Once they know it, they will not feel the need for them to include it in the tender documentation, so they will just use the voluntary agreement. On the other hand, if they know that there is no such voluntary agreement, they will, of course, write it into the tender documents. Then we have the second situation with new construction, where the municipality will then have to approve the application there is. There I assume, as a matter of course, that a general housing company applying for new construction, which the municipality is to approve, will draw attention to the fact that there is a voluntary agreement with Dansk Byggeri, so that they stop at the municipal council that there is no need to impose social clauses. I assume that, with the average intelligence in Denmark, the municipal council will follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133831	Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133833	So that means that Mr. Eigil Andersen believes that this bill allows for the possibility that if the municipality has decided that here with us we use social clauses, then each housing company can refuse to use the social clauses because they have a local partnership agreement. Is that an option? Because it sounds that way, and if it is, it sounds really, really nice, but I haven't read that out. Is it an opportunity for a housing company to say: No, we do not need your social clauses, because we have a much better arrangement ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133906	It is not an option if the municipality demands it, but if the housing company has pointed out that there is a voluntary agreement and it works well, then I find it difficult to imagine the municipality which will then impose it anyway. However, we are at the heart of this debate, and it is that with all the work that is being done in a good way with voluntary agreements, I assume that in these procurement cases it will be 90 per cent. of them or maybe 95 per cent of them. of them will build on volunteering, and then there's a residual group left of 5%, and there's this bill an improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133943	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122133946	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, because I was very pleased with the warm words with which the rapporteur gave the voluntary agreements along the way, and I share the rapporteur's views all the way. See, I am very fond of Christiansborg, I am very fond of the Danish Parliament, and therefore I am also convinced that when we deal with legislation, we must ensure that we have the right information, that we have the right figures and facts, etc., because only in this way can we make legislation that benefits the country. In connection with this bill, how much has the lack of 10 000 places of work, as the rapporteur has said, had to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134036	I do not know whether I can understand the scope of that question, but I can at least say that, regardless of the size of the number, the identifiable lack of internships is a social problem. And what has been done here is a small contribution to trying to help solve it. However, it is clear that the voluntary agreements that have already been made are positive for the reasons which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134111	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134112	Once again, I must commend the rapporteur because, of course, we are asking a question with ulterior motives. That was a very, very wise answer from the rapporteur, because the latest figures from the Ministry of Children and Education show that there are, in fact, only 600 pupils at national level who cannot complete their upper secondary education through a school practice. And this bill hardly benefits the 600 young people because they're in some industries that won't benefit from this. So we're not talking about 10,000 young people missing an internship. In fact, we are only really talking about around 600, because the vast majority of them can complete their education through a school practice. That is why I think that if the figure of 10 000 has been a supporter of this bill, then the parties that sit and vote yes when we are going to vote on it are actually going into this bill on the basis of quite wrong grounds. And that's just what I was trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134213-2	Fortunately, I can tell you that this is not the case. I am fully aware that there is a discussion going on about that list and how many it actually has to say on it. But I would say, and I think the Left now agrees, that being in school practice is a good emergency solution. But I will always judge it to be better if you had one, if I may say so, real internship with an employer. Therefore, if you can exchange some school internships for a real internship, among other things. through this bill, I think it has progressed, and I think that is the view of the Left as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134248	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134254	The non-profit housing organisations are subject to special legislation because they have been granted special privileges. They have received various forms of support for the construction of housing. It is also exempt from tax on their profits. They have been given this in order to achieve some housing objectives, that is to say they have to provide housing for people and, in particular, they have to provide housing social purposes for people who have housing social problems. That is why there is the right of authorizing the municipalities. The core tasks of housing organizations can be extended to anything else at any time. One can say that they must also have a task of looking after stray cats; one can say that they must promote the use of ecology; one can say that they must play a role in education. There are, of course, no limits to how many good things housing organisations can do. But the more things you put into their portfolio, if you will say so, the less money they have for what is their real job, namely for housing purposes, including housing social purposes. So now that you extend the palette and say that the non-profit housing associations should also have the opportunity to do something other than for housing purposes, you give the possibility that if they choose to do so, including if they are pressured by the municipalities to do so, there will be less money left to carry out the real purpose of housing. You just have to know that. This is gonna cost you a little. It costs when housing organisations have to demand that people who want to bid for new buildings or renovations have to have apprentices. Then it costs so that then there will be some cheaper offers that they cannot say yes to. Instead, they have to pay more for an offer where there is a requirement that there are apprenticeships. So there is less money left for the real purpose, the housing social purpose and the building of housing at all. I am inclined to say that everyone should be allowed to make the demands they want when buying a service from a supplier. If I buy a new carport, I have to be able to make it a requirement to the supplier that there should be an intern if I want to. The housing organizations should also be allowed to do so if they so wish. However, they have been given particularly favourable conditions and special privileges for housing purposes, not for educational purposes, but it is then extended. We can discuss that then. Should we make these special privileges available for now also educational purposes in the housing context? It is a little difficult for me to find out whether I should say yes or no to it. It is difficult to find out what is in the law and what is meant by what is in the law. Can the municipalities require the housing organisation to require trainees from those who offer a job? The law says that the municipality may require the organisation to consider it, but I have asked among other things. Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen, and I believe that Mr. Eigil Andersen expressed it here on the platform, without me asking, and from what they say, it appears that the municipalities can impose as a requirement that there should be a requirement for the number of internships with those who offer the assignment. At least that's where I think you're out of line if it's part of the law. But it is a little unclear, because the law only says that they have to consider it. The rapporteurs say on the platform: no, they must demand it. Summa summarum we are leaning towards a no, but we need to examine the bill a little more in detail and find out what lies behind the dissertation that exists between the draft law and the statements made by the rapporteurs here from the platform, and then we have to take a position accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134742	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134746	How does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur know that the price of a tender is going to be higher because there is a demand for apprentices to be employed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134804	I know that from the simple fact that today's demand is to take the best and cheapest offer. That's what this bill is gonna change, so you don't have to take the best and cheapest, but can take the best and cheapest with the requirement that there should be trainees. If it was the case that the offer with interns was already best and cheapest, you didn't have to make this addition at all. But the amendment of the law is made so that you can make a different offer than the one that is best and cheapest, without requiring trainees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134839	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134841	I think there is a good chance that the firms with apprentices will be able to provide the cheapest offer, because everyone knows that apprentices' wages are lower than those of the trained ones. And at least in the latter half of an apprentice's internship, the apprentice will often be able to do almost as much as a graduate. So I think that in reality, overall, because of course, you spend some time at the beginning of teaching them up... is neutral.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134916	Well, if sir... Eigil Andersen believes that the companies that have trainees deliver the best and cheapest offer, Mr. Eigil Andersen doesn't have this bill for them to get the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134926	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122134941	As a society, we need a great many pupils to be trained, including for the craft sector, and construction is an important part of it. Of course, the construction is by its very nature those who most need qualified workers who come in and can take care of the jobs. Exactly the general sector and construction are at the forefront when it comes to providing internships. They are doing very well and they deserve great praise for the partnership agreements that have been concluded; they are, in fact, a frontrunner for many other areas. Voluntary agreements are very good because they are flexible in encouraging the provision of work placements and, in fact, we should therefore reward the partnership agreements which have been concluded and which show that the figures in this area are far better than anywhere else. Instead of this proposal, you choose to punish that area. The risk of this is, unfortunately, that in future you will think that it is not worth making these voluntary agreements; it makes no sense, because you are not given any credit at all for it, you are not allowed to do it in your own way, you are met with coercive and rigid rules, even if you are trying to do it well. It is in itself a disaster. Then, as we have already mentioned, there is also the problem of these agreements that they are more rigid and that they cannot take local considerations into account. And now I am not talking about the fact that it is in the construction sector and in the companies which are responsible for these students that these problems are pointed out. I am talking about the housing organisations that have concluded the partnership agreements today, who are very fond of them and who have been some of the driving forces in making this look so good and making these figures look so good that we are asking for us not to implement this proposal. And why do they do that? Yes, it is because there are, unfortunately, massive social problems in some places in these housing departments that we have talked about earlier today. There are young people who have such difficult problems that, in an ordinary school situation, they do not have a living chance of entering the labour market, do not have a living chance of getting an internship. These young people, with some of these partnership agreements with voluntary agreements, have been given a unique chance to get their feet inside and prove their worth by becoming part of a renovation project in the residential area in which they live, so that when they get up in the morning they can see quite specifically that the work they do makes a difference to themselves and to their neighbours. It's beautiful, and they should be commended for making such agreements that could mean a world different to these young people. We are now in danger of disappearing, and it is also a disaster. There is not much good to say about this proposal, and it should be guided by the problems it can create. The word faith has been used very much in the debate; you think this will help and you think everything is possible. The problem is, if you think wrong, this bill is a disaster. We cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135357	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135402	The word disaster sounds very violent, and I have to admit that I am thinking personally of floods in Bangladesh and the like. But okay, that's the Conservatives' perception. The consultation answer sent by the National Association of Housing Companies, Denmark's General Housing Association, says, among other things: the following sentence: It is important that we consider together very carefully which method gives the best result in the given task. The housing companies and the municipalities are concerned. Does the rapporteur agree that this is the key to making room for voluntary agreements and allowing them to be played out in the best possible way in cases where they have been concluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135453	So, frankly, it is a disaster for a young person who has grown up in a vulnerable residential area if he never gets a chance to get an education and a job. I think that is a personal disaster. And it is quite true that it is probably worse to be washed away in a flood in Bangladesh than never to get a foot in the labour market. But that doesn't change the fact that it's a disaster. If I have to reply quickly to the second part, I would say that I very much hope that it is the case that, although the municipality decides that they want social clauses throughout the municipality, the housing companies must oppose it, but that is not how I read it. Because it is just so important that it is in each department that an assessment is made of how best to make an agreement. That, of course, is what has been done with the voluntary partnership agreements, and that is what works so well. That's what's given the nice numbers. Well, let's hold on to it then.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135549	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135551	I agree that it is a disaster for a young person if he does not get an education and a job, but I also believe that the word was used in connection with the legislative proposal, and I certainly do not think that is a disaster. Now comes my question: although there are voluntary agreements in many places, is there not everywhere that it is verifiable that the rapporteur agrees that when there is no voluntary agreement on apprenticeships and internships, it will provide more internships at the moment when it is required to be available?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135631	Yes, if we assume that the fact that we are now making strict rules and punishing those who make voluntary agreements does not mean that there will be fewer voluntary agreements. It is my great fear that there will be fewer voluntary agreements and that the agreements that are being made do not take into account the necessary local considerations, which housing organisations themselves are also concerned about cannot be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135654	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Finally, I give the floor to the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122135703	I would like to start by thanking the parties that have supported, including, of course, the Danish People's Party, which is involved. I must confirm that this has also been a matter for the Danish People's Party, as Mr. Eigil Andersen and Enhedslisten, who unfortunately cannot be present today, have fought for this part of it. I would like to say that this is a very, very important legislative proposal, and it is because we have a lot of young people who cannot get an internship. I myself have been working with the area as rapporteur for more than 14 years in relation to the whole of the vocational training sector, and it is important that we now have some additional opportunities in this area too, namely by providing the authority for the general housing organisations to impose social clauses and training and practical arrangements. This has not been possible before, because the law prevented this legal basis from being created. We are now doing so because we want to secure even more internships. I would like to say that the debate has already taken place and this has also been the subject of a great deal of effort in order to set up work placements in connection with renovation projects supported by the Landsbygning Foundation. These are voluntary agreements, partnership agreements with construction contractors and other local actors. And the agreements, as we have also talked about today, benefit many of the young people from the area in question. But this has to be seen as a supplement. I think it was sir. Eigil Andersen, who said that there are in fact some places where there are no agreements, and therefore we want to ensure that we just go further. I would also like to say that, in their response to the hearing, BL does not deny that in some situations it can be sensible and beneficial to use social clauses. However, in BL's view, it is important to be aware that the clauses do not become a sleeping pillow, and I fully agree with that, because they must match the right people. Where you have good voluntary agreements, it is not necessary to do so. But that's an option. And this also works preventively, because everyone knows that there is a full focus on providing these apprenticeships and internships. And it is certainly a good idea to provide additional tools for housing organisations so that we can have the necessary number of internships for young people. I would like to say that we, as a government, attach great importance to this. Then there has been a discussion about who can now what. And there I would like to stress that the government and I also think the conciliation partners see it as a complement to the voluntary agreements and not as a contradiction to the voluntary agreements. It's important to say it. As can be seen from the comments made by the draft law on the clauses, it is intended as a supplement. It's also directly in the bill. And the clauses may be timely, as I also said, in cases where no agreement has been reached or where no agreement has been reached. I would also like to say that, on this basis, we are providing an additional instrument for maintaining and expanding the share of training and internships in connection with renovation projects and construction projects. And that's right, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said in what he read that you must not discriminate. In fact, it is not possible to ensure that some of a particular ethnicity should have these internship agreements. At least I think we all agree on that. But there is no doubt, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party said, that this will give some more internships, and thus the proportion of young people, including Danish young people who are given internships, will increase. I don't think you have to question that. So I'm sure we'll have more internships. We need that. Then there is the discussion: what can the municipal council do? The municipal council and the Landsbygningsfonden have the opportunity to make it a condition for the commitment of aid. When it comes to new construction, a municipal council can say "because there is a basic capital grant of 10 per cent. And when it does not stand as an unambiguous requirement, it is because what is called a principle of proportionality comes in. In other words, if it is a tiny new building in which there can be no apprentices, or if it is special areas where it is not possible, then it can be avoided. However, it is generally possible to make a requirement for new buildings. It is the housing organisation that can make the demand when it comes to renovations, as Mrs Liv Holm Andersen also mentioned. I would just like to say that it must be stressed that in any case it must be up to the housing organisation to decide whether it is legally possible to use these social clauses in individual cases in relation to what you have. And with regard to the number of pupils, you have to say that it is the company that decides and that is important, at least in relation to the private contracts that have been made and how many have to be employed in this case. So I think that, overall, the existing agreements have been taken into account. We acknowledge the work done by the conciliation circle. From a very broad political majority we have wanted more internships, and they are urgently needed. We are providing some additional instruments. I understand that some bourgeois parties are opposed, but a broad majority wanted it. I would like to thank you for your good cooperation, and I look forward also to clarifying any questions raised in the House today in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140235	Four Members have asked for brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140239	Today, the non-profit housing organizations have defined by law some core activities. Will the Minister admit that when you expand with a new core activity, which now has an educational purpose, there is a little less resources left for what was the core activity so far? In other words, the more new tasks the housing organizations are being overwhelmed with, the less money they can make available for what is the core activity today. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140314	I would like to admit that in the past there has not been any power to make these demands, but a broad political majority wants to make demands, because we can see that we lack apprenticeships and internships. Today, voluntary agreements are made. We would like to continue with that, but where we cannot get our hands on it for one reason or another, or where there is disagreement, it is the case that we are providing some additional instruments for creating the necessary number of apprenticeships and traineeships. I appreciate that, but I admit that it is a new thing that it is now provided for in the law that you can make the claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140348	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140349	But if you now have a housing organisation that focuses all its energy on building the best possible and cheapest possible housing for people in the area, so that they can live well, and this organization will then also be allowed to spend its funds on other things, for example. to provide a certain number of internships when building for the housing organisation, and that is a new purpose. Would the Minister not agree that there is a little less resources left for what was the purpose so far, namely to ensure that housing is made available to people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140427	I would like to say that when I meet with housing organisations all around the country, including with BL centrally, they also see that it is an important task that they contribute to the professionally well-trained people who can carry out both the maintenance, renovation and construction of new general housing. This has been taken as a commitment. Then there are some places where you haven't gone far enough. We, a broad political majority, want to ensure that there are more of them, so yes, you get extra tasks. I agree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in, but I do not think it conflicts with what the general housing organizations see themselves in, and we are a large majority who want more learning and internships, so this will be a natural part of the supply, both in terms of renovation and new construction forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140512	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140514	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. The Minister began his speech by saying that the Minister has a great deal of experience in this area and that the Minister has been working on it for many years. So maybe the minister can help me a little on the way here. Are these training clauses contained in this bill going to mean that when an employer asks for a job, the employer is going to hire two apprentices or how many are going to be hired for the job, or is it okay that the employer has only apprentices employed in his firm?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140553	What we're talking about, and Mr. Cole knows that. Peter Juel Jensen is also good, how many men are involved, how many men's years or years' work or how to do it during construction. It may as well be that you already have apprentices in a company where they are skilled and good at taking apprentices, and then you take them with you during construction. I do not think we should make this up to the point, but we have to say that some people have to be employed who are in training and in apprenticeships and internships. It is about man-hours during construction, and it can be one thing or the other, because I do not think we should go further in penalising companies that do well in advance and have apprentices. It is, of course, best to make voluntary agreements, but there is the possibility of making clauses to ensure that apprentices are included.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140635	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140637	But that means that even though we have now had an hour of debate on something that the parties supporting this have stood and said will lead to more internships, it is not certain that it will do so, because if you only have an apprentice somewhere else in your company, that is, who works elsewhere, there will be no more internships out of this. And that is just what I wanted the Minister to say: this is basically a purely symbolic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140706	I'd like to say to Mr. Peter Juel Jensen and I said that too, but sometimes it may be difficult to hear that it was in connection with the particular building, the particular work assignment that is being offered. But if you have apprentices in advance, you take them to the construction, and then you ensure that there is employment there, and then it may be that you have to take an apprentice to something else. But it is actually the case that we are discussing it for hours in connection with the construction, that is, how much it is. And that's where we set a claim of about 12%. Well, I can't blame Mr. Knox. Peter Juel Jensen, that he does not know, but it is actually 53,000 leases and thus over 14,000 adult people who get into employment. And we would also like to have many more internships.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140746	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140749	Thank you. With the agreement made by the government, as I understand it, you will get 12%. interns on renovation cases in the general sector. This is exactly the same number as it was in 2013. It was also estimated that 12 per cent of the population in the EU would be in the EU. were trainees on the renovation cases in the general sector. So what is the reason why you need a new instrument when you can already reach the 12%. with the existing model? It must then be because we would rather use a different model from the existing one, when it is not enough with the 12% that we can achieve through the voluntary partnership agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140827-2	Now it swings a little and goes a little bit up and down, also depending on how many constructions are in progress and such things. But I would like to say that as far as I remember, one was a little under; one was 10-11 per cent. This should not prevent me from commending the general sector for doing it well, but we just want to ensure that there are more, including those places where voluntary agreements cannot be made. Unfortunately, they exist and we want to ensure that there are also apprenticeship and internships. It has been important for a broad circle in the Folketing. I have to say that the Left does not want to secure more apprenticeship and internships.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140859	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140900	But the funny thing is, you don't have more ambition than you had in 2013. According to BL's hearing answer, there were 12%. Interns on renovation cases in the general sector, and last year they were down to 11.2 per cent. We have to say that it is very close to the 12%, so we have to assume that voluntary partnership agreements can be reached there. So what is the reason for introducing a new instrument? Is it because it needs to push the voluntary partnership agreements more into the background?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140927-2	If we could get higher, that would be fine, but I actually explained that we would like to see voluntary agreements. This is an extra instrument we're giving to make sure we get to the 12 percent. We'll follow it on a regular basis. But I have to say that the Left does not like the fact that social clauses must also be made. You don't like securing the extra internships. You only want to make voluntary agreements, so it is up to the parties to decide. We look at that differently than the Left does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140953	The last question is Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122140956	I think that the Minister is a bit of a praise for the voluntary agreements, and I would like to start by giving the Minister the advice that perhaps the Minister should devote more effort to commending those who are actually doing well, because it could be that it helped rather than punishing them. My question is an offshoot of this with who can what. And I would like to know whether we can get the Minister's word that a housing department that thinks they have a good and sensible opportunity to make a voluntary agreement can at any time say that a municipal requirement should not apply to them because they have a voluntary agreement and that it is much better for them, perhaps even anchored in the local environment. So I would like to ask the Minister: does a housing company have an opportunity at any time to say no to a municipal demand if they can say they have a fine agreement with which they are happy and satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141046	I know that the Conservatives are such a very legal party with punishment and one thing and the other, but I do not feel that we are punishing anyone. We say that the main principle is voluntary agreements, and then, of course, there is an opportunity for an additional new option • where we provide in law that you can make demands through social clauses to ensure that there are apprenticeships and internships. So we are not punishing anyone in this regard, no, we are ensuring that there are more people who can get an apprenticeship or internship, and even the Conservatives should be happy about that. In relation to what is new construction and where the municipal council can go in and demand that you look at social clauses, it is well to note that the housing organisation imposes the principle of following or explaining. And there may be something about the principle of proportionality in the European Union, that is, if it is a small building or a special building or whatever it is, then you do not have to follow it, but you have to follow it or explain it. Moreover, what is at stake is what Mrs Charlotte Dyremose knows from all the other areas that the state and the municipalities are dealing with. You either have to follow it or explain why you don't. And that is where the municipal council must require a housing organisation to comply with the social clauses if you do not have a voluntary agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141156	Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141157	My advice was simply to make a little more of the rose part, because here we actually have an area where you have been exceptionally good at providing internships, and yet this area is now feeling punished and it is not just something I say, it is also something they feel; they feel punished. They are not commended for having done well. Instead of being praised for being the leader in the field in relation to internships, they get a host of rules and bureaucracy laid down over them. That's kind of just what I'm worried about. But does this also mean that if a major renovation project considers it more appropriate to make a voluntary agreement, then you can say no to the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141242	In relation to renovation tasks, it is true that the housing association has been given the opportunity to make a demand for social clauses in the supply. And that's what the Housing Association has to do with itself when we talk about renovations. So that's their choice. You actually have the opportunity, if you cannot agree on it, to make it a requirement. It is important to emphasise this point. May I then just read out the BL's hearing answer, which says that BL does not deny that in some situations it may be advantageous to use social clauses, but that, in BL's view, it should be borne in mind that the clauses do not become a sleeping pillow and that, using social clauses, it is important to follow up when it is the right people. In other words, BL does not reject that instrument either, but in their consultation reply it refers to the best of the voluntary agreements. I think the circle here, which agrees on this, supports that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141333	Thank you to the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141349	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141416	Thank you for the floor. It is really a bit strange that the Danish People's Party has chosen to retable a proposal which has been slightly amended, but which is very similar to a proposal which I have discussed here at least once in the past. However, it is also OK for proposals to be retabled, but it may be a bit funny because we in the high school circle are in fact currently discussing the development of upper secondary education, including hf, and the Danish People's Party is part of the conciliation circle and therefore has a complete influence on what might happen with hf. Now, however, the Danish People's Party has chosen to resubmit virtually the same proposal, which is why I would like to give it a few words on the way, because we think for various reasons that what the Danish People's Party has put forward is a really bad idea, and the government cannot therefore support it either. However, I think that a few arguments should be put forward, even though it has been in this Chamber before. Basically, we do not agree that there is a need for this extra course of training, especially because it is emphasised that it is an education which is without academic and preparatory elements. We simply do not believe that there is a need for a new academically oriented youth education, which should not even be a general preparation for study. That is why it will not be able to solve any of the educational challenges which, moreover, we are interested in discussing and which are also reflected in the proposal for future high schools presented by the government. I have also heard from the Danish People's Party that there are a number of elements in the government's proposal that the Danish People's Party actually seems to give good sense, despite the fact that one of the major disagreements is that the Danish People's Party wants an admission requirement on the grade 7, if you are going to enter the upper secondary educations and hf, as noted in parenthesis now that we are discussing hf, will mean that we will virtually suspend the hf-education in a number of places in Denmark because there will be 75%. of students starting on hf who simply will not be able to enter hf with the admission requirement proposed by the Danish People's Party. It also said that it might say something about what is the intention here, which we simply disagree with. We in the government believe that hf is a very important educational path. It is an educational path which has historically helped to raise the opportunity for adults who would take the leap to take a pre-education course, that they will be able to continue in higher education with hf. More and more young people are also using hf as the way to further education. This is one of the issues we have addressed in the government proposal, namely the need to maintain hf and, of course, also develop hf, among other things. because it has become more different groups of adolescents and adults using hf. We therefore also believe that we should look at whether the way it is screwed up is the right one. This is among other things. Therefore, that we have set up an expert committee that makes their recommendations on how to develop hf. The Committee of Experts will have their recommendations ready in March so that they can be included in the discussions we have in the upper secondary school circle. There are a few things from the proposal which I would like to highlight which show that it is difficult to see that it will do any good at all, in addition to the fact that it will certainly mean that more people with preparatory training will have to do double training here, because it will then have to continue in one of the existing youth education programmes. Here is the question: why not make it so, why not use the alternative roads that are already there today, among other things. the new eud ti, if that is what you want to focus on, where you can get a professional boost after 9th or 10th grade if you want to enter a youth education? But one of the things that lies in the Danish People's Party's proposal is that you cannot get Danish at A level because the subjects are at B and C levels. It is therefore the case that one must use Danish at A level as a crucial study competence to get into, for example. all Bachelor's degree programmes. However, DF does not want hf's to be eligible for Bachelor's degree programmes. It is also difficult to understand why there should be that barrier for hf's. It is also apparent from the DF's proposal that this means that admission requirements for some of the professional bachelor degree programmes must be reduced. It is also difficult to understand, for if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. If you look at teachers' students and nurses' students, you have to ask: why do we really have to lower admission requirements here? Why not stick to the level of ambition that lies and to the professional boost that we have together made, moreover, in connection with both the reform of primary schools and the reform of vocational training, and now we are looking at the upper secondary education so that it is with the look that we are going into it? We simply think that the Danish People's Party's proposal is wrong. We think this is the last time it was put forward, and we really think that there is even less need for us to discuss it now, because in other ways we have jointly given more young people a chance that they will have an educational boost. I would also like to sign for this, so this is just a reaction to this proposal, which we simply do not think will help to strengthen the Danish educational image.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141910	There is a brief comment from the author, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141912	Thank you, and thank you for your comments, to which I will also be able to respond more afterwards. But here comes the first question: will the Minister not think that there is a difference in the preparation needed for a youth education for those going to university and studying, and then those who need to have a shorter higher education, for example? be a teacher or a police officer? Would the Minister not think that we should prepare for these courses in different ways? Or does the Minister think that it is one big porridge and that everyone should go to the same school and have the same preparation for youth education?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122141953	The questioner knows very well that the Minister does not think, because there is a reason why we have four upper secondary education alone. These are different levels on which to choose courses of study and what characterises, for example. hf today, is that there are more subjects today that are at a slightly lower level than if you take one of the 3-year upper secondary educations. It also makes sense because hf is a 2-year education. That is also why we can see that there are relatively many of those who are looking for upper secondary education, which comes from hf, and here it makes sense because it is precisely a little lower levels their subjects are at, so if they want to enter the university where there is a higher level requirement, they have the opportunity to supplement. So there are already those differences today. What we do not see is the need for the Danish People's Party's proposal, in which it is quite clear that the school is not aimed at higher education but is intended to serve as a purely preparatory school. We simply cannot see the meaning of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142043	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142045	It is aimed at higher education, but it is aimed at the shorter ones It is a way of trying to meet those who want more education, but are not capable of it academically, and it is in fact the way that hf is already being used to some extent. So my question again is this: is it not right that we should be able to do different things if we are to be educators and if we are to study classical philology at the university?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142138	But the answer is self-evident. Of course, it is different things to be able to do, but what is important about youth education, whether it is upper secondary education or vocational training or the new eux, where you have dual education with both vocational training and hf, is that it should provide wide access to a number of higher education programmes, not so that everyone can do the same or must have the same, and that also reflects the different youth education programmes. However, the creation of a new preparatory school, which does not add anything at all, but on the contrary makes it harder to continue in higher education, we simply find it difficult to see what is needed. It is true that if you take vocational training, you also have the possibility of continuing academy education, so there are some leads today, where it is not the academic that is the driving force behind it. So it's also for that reason that we're having a hard time seeing the purpose of this prep school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142228	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142249	Thank you, President. The Left cannot support the proposal, and it is on the grounds that at this time we are sitting around the negotiating table precisely in order to do a job which must basically result in us strengthening our high school. And if we adopt this proposal, we will do it across some negotiations that we in the Left expect a great deal of. Many unknowns are still missing in the negotiations, and if we put this proposal into the sea at this time, it will block our negotiations. But we agree so far that if the negotiations end in such a way that we do not have the opportunity to make a satisfactory youth education offer for everyone, we can of course look at it again. The goal is on the Left that no one should be left behind. I will not go further into the proposal, but just repeat what the Left has said before, namely that we will probably very soon have to look at the whole youth education system in a context rather than at the individual youth education programmes separately. The think tank DEA had their youth education commission. Now I am a Bornholmer and there we are not used to using such big words, but we should, at some point, set up a working group to look at some of the challenges we face, in other words, to get better coherence and cooperation between our youth education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142411	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142424	Thank you. The Minister has set out the ambitions of the Social Democrats and the government to develop and maintain a • also for our young people who are working well today, but at the same time we are working hard both through a committee to look at doing better, but also in the negotiations we are currently in. I think it is important, when we ask our young people to take a youth education, that it opens as many doors as possible, that it offers opportunities in the lives of young people. As I read the proposal here, I fear that it will create more dual education, more barriers in our education system. At the same time, I fear that it will lower the level of some of the short and medium-term courses, which today, fortunately, have a high level of ambition, which we have shared in putting here in the Folketing. So, in terms of content, I find it hard to see the sense of the proposal. At the same time, even if I agreed with the whole content, I would think it was a strange timing when right now we are sitting around a negotiating table, all parties of the Folketing, with the aim of making our good high schools even better. I would very much like to take that at the negotiating table, just as I would very much like to make our hf track even better, and the government has also proposed it. So both in terms of timing and in terms of content, the Socialists have to say no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142559	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then I give the floor to Mrs Krarup, who has asked for her speaking time to be divided, so that she has five minutes now and then five minutes at the end as rapporteur for the authors of the motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122142626	Thank you. Right now, when we are discussing reform of high school and the introduction of admission requirements for high school, it is so important to talk about what young people who cannot or will not take a secondary education or a craftsman's education should do. That is why I am also pleased that the Danish People's Party has been given the opportunity to retable the proposal for the creation of a so-called preparatory school. When the Danish People's Party has chosen to retable the motion for a resolution on the creation of a new youth education which lies between the secondary school and the vocational schools... the so-called preparatory school... through a reform of hf., it is not to kill hf. Hf is an excellent education that is used properly to give young people who have come into disarray with the youth education system a second chance. Sir. Bertel Haarder has said: if hf did not exist, we would have to invent it. And that's actually true. Therefore, we also believe that hf should be retained, as hf was originally intended, namely as a 2-year baccalaureate with the same professional level as a baccalaureate from a high school, just for adults. But today hf is used in new ways, often as a baccalaureate light, where you do have many of the same subjects with the same curricula, but where the level is just somewhere else. I have myself taught in hf and high school in the same subjects and with the same curriculum, and therefore on my own body I have felt how much difference there is. Nevertheless, a hf-seven figure applies as much as a high school seven figure. For this reason, long-term training can also be considered in the same way as in the other courses. But it is sometimes almost like luring young people into ambush, and so we see very large apostasy. The drop-out rate for hfs in long-term education is considerably higher than for high school students. There is thus evidence that hf education does not equip young people well enough for universities. At the same time, it can also be seen that hf's entry grades from primary school are becoming lower and that more and more young people are taking hf as a general upper secondary education. There is therefore much evidence today that hf has developed far away from the classic hf. There are also bright sides to the hf-courses, which have toned the courses towards the courses to be attended by students. In some places you can read hf to become a police officer, educator or work in maritime or health care. These are excellent ideas that help many young people through and up to the education they want to get started with. It's just not a university entrance exam, but it works. It is this development that the Danish People's Party would like to strengthen with the proposal for a preparatory school. At the same time, we will make it quite clear what the training is. We want to stop hypocrisy from calling education something that it is not. It's always wise to call a spade a spade. We're not alone in that either. In an analysis in April 2014, Dansk Industri wrote that hf is developing in a critical direction, and Dansk Industri suggests that hf should only provide access to short- and medium-term courses. And that is one of the things that lies in our proposal. Today, a very large proportion of hf students begin a professional bachelor degree programme, and here, after all, the drop has been lower than among hf students in universities. With this proposal, then, we will divide hf into two classic hf with a reinforced professional level and a new school, namely a preparatory school. Thus we take the consequence of the development of youth education in recent years. We want a college and a hf with a high level of professionalism that prepares students for the university, we want a preparatory school with a solid level of professionalism that prepares students for the professional bachelor degree programmes, and then we want vocational training in which the students are trained for skilled craftsmen. We do not want a hf that really gives young people a baccalaureate diet that is not good enough for universities, and we do not want a 12-year unitary school where everyone just goes on in a form of holistic college with a low professional level. We imagine that a differentiated admission requirement of 6 or 7 must be made to the secondary school and to the classical hf, an admission requirement of 3 or 4 to the preparatory school, and to the vocational schools there is already a admission requirement of 2. With this differentiation of youth education, we give more young people a good chance of training at the level corresponding to their abilities and ambitions. The Danish People's Party therefore recommends that further work be done on the proposal here for a preparatory school; we would like it to happen in the conciliation circle and we would like it to happen here. We are less concerned about the method, just the idea of creating a differentiated youth education system is being carried forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143129	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143138	Thank you. And thank you for the clarification that an extra link is just being shot in. As I understand the rapporteur, the basic preface to this whole upheaval in our youth education system is that the professional level of our upper secondary education is in the open if I understand the rapporteur correctly. Are there any official numbers that support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143202	It is very difficult to measure and I have repeatedly asked EVA to carry out a qualitative study of the professional level in high school. It is very difficult to measure. Therefore, it can be said that there are no hard statistical studies. There are surveys where university lecturers have been asked what the level is today, compared to what it was like 15 years ago before the college reform. And the majority of them say that the professional level has fallen. Many university courses have set up additional courses, for example when people come in. on DTU or cand. polit. So it is a professional fall across the board. But this is not something that needs to be corrected at the professional level everywhere. This needs to be fixed so we can get the highest professional level in high school and the classic HF. But there are also some who must be allowed to avoid having mathematics at A level. Well, not everyone needs it. If you're going to be a teacher, I think it's nonsense that you should have Latin and mathematics at A level. Of course you shouldn't. There you have to be allowed to have an extended education, and that is what the preparatory school is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143311	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143313	Okay. It's just to get it right. After all, it is quite an important premise that Mrs Krarup is laying the foundations for everything, so that we have to understand that our young people do not learn what they used to learn and that it is all in free fall. I understand that the background is that some university people say that for the minority who go further at university there are some problems with the professional level. But an overall assessment of the professional level in our upper secondary education must then be based on Mrs Marie Krarup's own gut. Or are there other numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143357-2	I am not saying that the professional level should be raised everywhere in all youth education programmes. I'm saying that in high school, the professional level needs to be raised. There must also be other upper secondary education where you do not have to have the highest professional level. And in high school, the professional level has fallen. That's all there is to it, and it's not just my gut. As I said, these are also surveys. But what has happened is that everyone today goes to high school. High school has almost become an extension of primary school, and that is the problem. We need to have a middle point, and this is where I propose that, as far as hf is concerned, which is already used in a way like this middle point, we have to state clearly and honestly that it is a middle point and that it does not have the same accessing functions as the high school. So we are simply creating a kind of three-step rocket, with practical training, intermediate training, which is the preparatory school, and then the youth education which prepares for the academic level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143452	Thank you. No one else has signed up. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143504	Thank you. I believe in education. We do not have so many things in the underground that we can pull up and earn fat on, so it is the smart heads and hands that we have to live on, and that is why as a government we are investing so heavily in education. As a radical, I am driven by the fact that education must open doors. This is one of the important elements of our high school programme where we will strengthen the direction of study and the relationship with higher education. Opening doors was also one of the driving forces behind our vocational school reform, both with the spread of eux, where you get both staff letter and study skills, and with many openings for all the other vocational training courses of at least three years. I very much agree with what the Minister said that our youth education should be either professional or academic. That is why I am not particularly enthusiastic about this proposal from the Danish People's Party, because in my view it is closing the doors. I have a friend on Twitter, Morten Moesgaard, who is fighting for us to raise our level of debate in here, by getting a little better at being curious about each other's opinions, and so I will try in real Moesgaard's style not just to shoot down the Danish People's Party's proposal, but to try to be curious and find out why the Danish People's Party really thinks what they are doing. So I'm curious to hear Dansk Folkeparti elaborate on whether it's because you want to turn high schools back into elite schools. What is it that the party is driven by in that desire, and what does the Danish People's Party think that this proposal will, in particular, exclude young people from foreign educational homes from taking a high school education and will make us even worse to break the social heritage? The Radical Left cannot support the proposal. We would like to acknowledge the Danish People's Party for expressing what it thinks very clearly, and then we hope that we can take the discussions at the negotiating table at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143713	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143717	The rapporteur believes that the Danish People's Party's proposal would exclude young people from education and thus make it more difficult to break the social heritage. That's exactly the opposite of what this is gonna do, because it's gonna make it possible to catch young people at the level where they are. The way it is today, a very large proportion of people who can't handle high school go to high school. Then they get a miserable character, and then they come out as unskilled young people who can't use their education for anything. It would have been much better if they had come up with an education that corresponded to their abilities and ambitions, and they had then moved on to the professional bachelor's degree programme which had more corresponded to their abilities. What is happening in high schools, where we also see that the social heritage is hitting harder and harder, is precisely that those who can meet the demand are doing very well and that those who cannot fall through completely. This education will just try to solve that problem. So my counter-question is: how will the rapporteur solve the problem of so many entering high school who really cannot cope with it? You want to lower the level in high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143836	No, we won't. On the contrary, we believe that our educational readiness assessment plays an important role in not only looking at the grades but also at whether the young person is motivated to take the education he or she wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143850	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143851	That is just not what is happening today, because today you see that it is still possible for a whole lot of young people who do not really have a strong motivation to go further into further education afterwards, yet to go into high school for a whole number of other reasons that they may not really have thought through. It may be because they want to be with the comrades and so on, and they are unprepared to meet the professional requirements and find it difficult to deal with them. This is a bad development, which is not solved by providing this kind of extra advice in primary school. There must of course be clear professional requirements, but there must not be the same clear professional requirements for everyone. Not everyone should have mathematics at A level, as I have said before. So I would ask the rapporteur to rethink his proposal and then to consider whether it is not reasonable for professional demands to be made at different levels, depending on whether one should be a teacher or whether one should be a civil engineer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122143955	Of course, the admission requirements for the various courses are self-evident. However, I think it is a strength that we have the four different upper secondary educations that we have, where you also have the opportunity to tone your studies in terms of what you are motivated for and what you want to read on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122144015	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the series of rapporteurs is Sanne Rubinke from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122144025	Thank you. It was a little tempting to have heard the Minister's speech actually just to say: check, listen very carefully. But now I am standing here on behalf of the usual SF rapporteur in this area, Mrs Trine Mach, so I have promised to read the speech, and I do. SF fully agrees with the Danish People's Party that more people have to take a youth education and that more people have to take a vocational training course, and no one will disagree with that. This is among other things. That is why we have just completed primary school reform and vocational school reform and are now looking at how we can also make high schools even better. And here the government's proposals are also in the process of reforming hf. We are therefore surprised that the Danish People's Party now wants a new type of school. Like many others, I understand that this is due to the fact that the Danish People's Party needs an argument to introduce towering admission requirements and a more elitist version of the high schools. Then you can turn high school into a pure elite education and make a prep school for those who can't get into high school. And the rest can go to business school, we understand. It is vertical to what SF thinks is a good education and school policy. We really think that the idea of an offer to young people who can neither see themselves in high school nor in vocational training is quite sympathetic. We just don't think a new type of school is helping that group. On the other hand, it does provide guidance and offers within the framework of existing youth education, and the range of tracks on youth education has already expanded in recent years. With vocational school reform, primary school reform and the forthcoming secondary school reform, including the reform of hf, a number of gaps have been patched up and offers are getting even better. We should rather maintain and strengthen the basic good education systems that we have than start to invent new places for young people. With the reforms that have been carried out, more people must become ready for training, and 10th-class offers must lift those who need it. Hf must be ensured and developed for those such as: are aware that they will continue to study a professional bachelor's degree programme or have gone some untraditional ways through the education system. Then we also have production schools for those who need more time and different forms of learning before they can start a youth education or get into employment. So I would say that, like the last time the proposal was put forward, the SF is concerned that a preparatory school may become a holding place or an extension of the primary school. We should rather help young people to actually make a good choice and help those who need a little extra before they start their youth education. The proposal will lay down an admission requirement which is lower than in high school and higher than in vocational training. With the wish of the Danish People's Party to have a 7 entry requirement for high school, this must mean that young people must have 4 in order to be admitted to the preparatory school. As we see it, it will deprive young people of the opportunity to choose for themselves; then, after primary school, they will somehow just be placed on a youth education according to their average grade. There will be an "A" team for those who have 7 or more who can then attend high school, a "B" team for those who have between 4 and 7 who can attend pre-school, and then there will be a "C" team for those who have between 2 and 4 who can enter vocational training. This will create even more of the polarisation that the Danish People's Party in its comments on the proposal actually writes itself that you are nervous about. We know that it is difficult for many 15 to 16-year-olds to decide on their future, and we can also understand it, but by far, the vast majority of young people have wishes, dreams and ideas about their future, and we think it is absolutely crucial that they themselves help to choose their future. They do not if they simply have to be placed on the basis of an average grade. The SF shall not vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122144413	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122144419	It might well be that I should not ask the question now when the rapporteur reads aloud to someone else. Yes, I am sorry, I withdraw my question, because the rapporteur is reading to someone else. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122144432	Then there were no other brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122144444	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am surprised that the government, the support parties, is taking such a lenient approach to a resolution in this Chamber. A motion for a resolution is, of course, the opportunity for the opposition to come up with thoroughly prepared political initiatives and proposals for legislation in Denmark. And so I think it is actually a disrespect when the Minister stands up here on the platform and calls it funny to table such a motion for a resolution. The Radical and SF parties are very lenient about what we have been able to hear, and the Enhedslisten decides not to be present at all today. Motions for resolutions can easily play an absolutely crucial role in our legislative procedure here in the Parliamentary Assembly and also become real legislation if not now, then later. It is clear that you are thinking that you should remember that you, too, can one day become opposition and have to table motions for resolutions. And in this context, it is really nice if there are some on the other side and actually deal with the proposals you make seriously. Even if you agree with that, there is something else, but the seriousness of the treatment seems to me to be absolutely crucial. When it comes to the substance of this motion for a resolution that we are discussing today, it is quite true that we are currently debating high schools. But it is also the case with negotiations that you often start with something that is quite overshadowed. If you want to bring in something that is substantially different from what is on the table, then a resolution can be a very good means of doing so, and that is why I think it should be taken seriously. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left who said that there is a need for a rethink of youth education, and that is one of the points addressed by this motion for a resolution. Indeed, we have the challenge that the high schools, as they are working today, absorb far more young people than they did 20 and 30 years ago, and that they have adjusted professional skills downwards in order to bring everyone along. This means that when a survey is carried out at universities it can be observed that professional skills have fallen. Supplementary courses are offered to enable young people to participate in mathematics, so that they can spell etc. So this is a very unfortunate situation. At the same time, we have some professional colleges where they have turned up a lot, in other words where there is an over-academy, one can say that is also not very appropriate, and we have some vocational schools that have got too far away from the market of which they were once part. So the quality of our education system is simply challenged, and that must be taken seriously, regardless of the answer you come up with. We have had our eyes on quantity in the political debate for many years; we must now look at quality. So when this motion for a resolution is interesting, it is because you are trying to find a solution where you say: if the high schools were to make quite different demands, if you were to have an admission requirement for the high school, then a solution might be needed to create a school, a youth school, a youth education which is aimed at those who want to be police officers, educators, nurses, etc., that is to say, towards some of the services industries. The advantage of this will be that the professional requirements can be raised in the secondary schools and that a youth education aimed at the medium-term higher education system can be developed at the same time. This is a very interesting perspective, such as: has been presented by the think tank DEA, which is, after all, a training think tank. So there is such a need to rethink youth education. There are also some challenges in the model presented today by the Danish People's Party. The challenge can be: How do we make sure that this model doesn't just grow and get bigger than it should be? We also have the challenge of some young people wanting to enter a university education after they have studied this youth education, and how do they get on with it? So there are some answers we need to find, but on the part of the Liberal Alliance, we certainly think that this is a very interesting model that solves some of the challenges we face. In general, we want a more differentiated youth education system which recognises that young people are not the same and cannot do the same and therefore should not just have the same oatmeal all together. Everyone is not the same, but there must be an education for everyone, no matter what level or motivation they come with. So we are very positive about the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122144947	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the last rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Daniel Rugholm of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145000	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we do not believe that at present there is any such thing. the need for more training for young people wishing to receive youth training. In these days, we are also discussing the future of high schools, and thus also the future of hf, and so it can be said that all of this somewhere is a little bit uncertain right now. In addition, we are in the process of implementing a vocational training reform, which we have yet to recognise the impact of a reform which must, of course, strengthen the alternative to the general upper secondary school and get more people to choose, for example. vocational training. We are also in the midst of the implementation of a reform of primary schools, which should have an effect on some of the problems the proposers use in the argument for this new education. Many of the good elements in e.g. The reform of primary school is precisely about strengthening the readiness for education and the transition to upper secondary education. So we look forward to the continuing negotiations on this particular area in the coming hours, days and weeks, but we cannot support the proposal. And then you hear something in the Chamber that you probably have never heard from the platform before and probably will not come back to again, but I should like to say from the Enhedslisten that they are also opposed. The rapporteur from the Radicals forgot that, and that is why I have promised to say that the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145125	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Marie Krarup as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145135	I would like to thank Conservatives for being so kind as to convey that greeting, and then I would say that I think it is a pity that Enhedslisten, who says that they are very concerned about education, does not want to take part in a debate on education. But it just says something about the Enhedslisten. However, I would like to thank the others in the Chamber for the debate. I think it is important that we emphasise that high schools should be access-giving to universities. It is good that we have different types of high schools so you can get different profiles, but they must have the same high professional requirements so that the young people can actually manage to go to university once they have taken a secondary education. We must not tell them that if they go through that education, they can easily cope with the university if they cannot actually do so. And that is what I think is the problem with hf today. A preparatory school according to our proposal here will be admission to the professional bachelor's degree programmes not all of them, because I think you have to go through all of them and see what is needed in each place. There are some places where it is necessary to maintain that one should have a Baccalaureate, but there are also some where we can say that secondary education is unnecessary and one could settle for a lower level. This will not lower the level of the professional bachelor education that we are talking about, because there will still be a solid level. But why do you have to have academic skills to go on a pedagogy education? I simply do not understand that, and I think it is to overshoot the goal and to abuse the time of the young people. It is also important that we give room for regret. Of course, if you take this preparatory training if it is created, you have to be able to put on the necessary levels if you regret and discover that you want to go to university. Therefore, there must be some modules built in and it is also stated in the proposal that one never gets into a dead end in the education system. So this proposal is an attempt to solve the problem we have today with the fact that high school has become far too broad. It has become a motorway; it has become something almost equivalent to 12 years of unitary school. And that, as I said before, has unfortunately lowered the level so that it is difficult to reach the very highest level before going to university. It is important that we face the fact that different requirements must be made for different training courses. There is no need to standardize all educations. You have no right to exams; you have to make an effort to get those exams; you have to pass exams to have them. It is not a right to have a student hat, just as it is a right to have an Olympic medal in swimming if you have not met the requirement to be the one who is best at swimming in the world at the moment. And that is why we must get away from the idea of seeing education as something we are entitled to. This is something to earn, it is something to fight for, and of course they must be at different levels. I am very pleased to hear in this debate that there are some who will continue the debate and look further at how to improve the proposal here and therefore realise that there is indeed a problem that we need to resolve. I hear both the Left and the Liberal Alliance say this, and I interpret it as saying that they very much agree that there is a need for further differentiation of our youth education system and that we cannot continue to let it become more characterless, more uniform, by having this mass gymnasium today, which is not good enough for the very academically strong and is too difficult for those who are academicly weak. There it would be considerably better to set up training at a somewhat lower level of ambition for those who are less academically strong and for those who are more academically strong. However, I thank you for the debate, and I look forward to continuing the debate in the field of education, both in the upper secondary school circle and, of course, in the Chamber and in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145614	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145618	Mrs Marie Krarup is suggesting that the high schools should only be for those who want to continue studying at university. That's why I'm curious to know why it's that educators or teachers don't go to high school. Perhaps the rapporteur would like to clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145637	I think we need to go through all the professional bachelor's degree programmes and then say: is there really a need for a baccalaureate that prepares for an academic level in order to be able to attend it and the professional bachelor's degree programme? I believe that in order to become a primary school teacher there is a need for a high level of secondary education, but I do not think that there is one if one is to be a teacher. That is how a whole range of different educations have different needs, and that is what you have to face instead of saying one size fits all, because it does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145708	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145710	What do you learn in high school that Mrs Marie Krarup does not think is relevant if you are to be a teacher?
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145717	That is, for example, the case. science theory, it is to write long tasks at a high level, it is perhaps literature history, world history and Greek and Latin, that is, it is not necessary. Of course, for those who have the skills, that's fine. It doesn't matter if you're over-educated in caring for children, but it's just not necessary, and you can be an educator without being able to do that. So if you force the people who are going to be educators into these very academic educations, there will be some of them who will not be able to cope, and then we will see a reduction in levels, and that is what we have seen in high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145805	Thank you to the rapporteur. It does not appear that anyone else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150122145822	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday, 23 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
