ParlaMint-DK_20150408130010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 183 (Proposal for a Law on the financing by municipalities of certain public benefits paid by municipalities, Payment by Denmark and unemployment funds), Bill No. L 184 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Supplementary Pension of the Labour Market, the Law on the Animal Time Fund of Employees, the Law on Unemployment Insurance and various other laws. Bill No. L 185 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Foreign Affairs and the Law on Holidays. Brian Mikkelsen (KF) and Mike Legarth (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 160 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to facilitate the generational change in family businesses). Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 161 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the obligation to notify when animal neglect is observed. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). At the request of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred back to committee. B 150 on the parallel agreement on Europol is subject to the general procedure for motions for resolutions with two readings in the Chamber. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130121	I shall begin by telling you that Peter Christensen under No. 5 questions put to the Minister for Justice, Question No. S 967, and that by Martin Geertsen under No. 12 questions put to the Minister for Children, Equal Opportunities, Integration and Social Affairs, Question No. S 965, is deleted from the agenda at the request of the authors. So far, so good. Then we are ready for the first question. It's for the Minister of Finance, and that's what Mr. Peter Christensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130158	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is in line with good governance that there is not yet an answer to Question No. 460, 462, 464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 469, 470, 471, 472 and 472 to be exactly the exact statement made by the Finance Committee on 29 September last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130229	Thank you very much. After all, the government, with its government base, has put forward a programme of good governance which, with a number of concrete measures, must ensure that we both have a better quality of law and improve the general ability to control the government's administration in Denmark. It is as part of the programme that the government strives to answer questions from the Folketing adequately and preferably within the time limit. The author of the question has Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian The answer to two of these questions has been given in the past, and that is No. 461 and No 463. The questions then unanswered relate to possible adjustments to the daily allowance rate, to the maximum daily allowance, to the length of the daily allowance period and to various combinations of differentiated daily allowance rates and benefit periods. In addition, there are questions about the consequences of various changes to the rules on the recovery of the right to daily allowance and various adjustments to the rules for specific groups and schemes in the benefit system. This applies, among other things, to: graduatings and vacation expenses. With the unemployment benefit reform implemented in 2010 and the subsequent extension of the benefit period and the introduction of the training, labour market benefits and cash benefits, there is a new empirical basis for assessing how changes to the benefit system actually work in practice. For this reason, analyses have been initiated in the ministries which are intended to assess the effects of these changes on, inter alia, the transition to employment and the duration of unemployment. This will improve and update the basis for assessments of changes in the benefit system. The analyses carried out in the ministries seek to ensure, as far as possible, a true answer, and in the particular case it has been considered that the information from the recent initiatives in this field is necessary to adequately qualify the answers to the questions. It should also be noted that ministries are developing the economic models for the impact assessments of rule changes in the benefit system, and the analyses on the new empirical basis are an input to those models. The development of these models is among other things. started as part of the Ministry's operation of the Welfare Commission and is part of the ongoing development of the Ministry's basis of assessment. The models will in future be used in general work in this field, including to answer the unanswered questions put by the Finance Committee on changes in the benefit system. This ensures the best possible and most comprehensive answer to the questions, which are based on the latest empire and the newest-developed models. At the same time, the assessment underlying the answers will be based on a basis similar to that on which the benefit commission will later make recommendations and base their recommendations. It is the expectations of the ministries, and it is also my expectation that the empirical analyses and models we have discussed here have been completed in mid-May and that the questions can therefore be answered accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130537	Sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130538	The fact that the Ministry of Finance is working to secure data bases that can provide as full an answer as possible should not be the subject of any political disagreement. It's just fine. However, I think that we are dealing with a number of issues which, of course, relate to the daily allowance discussion which has been going on for a very long time and in which there are many wishes and opinions in the debate. And to get an overview of what the consequences really are, if you had to listen to the various bids and outbids that are in that discussion, it requires that we have some figures. It has been six months now, and there must also be a parliamentary election, where I have a clear feeling that this will also be a topic for discussion. I think it is obvious to have a feeling that the government is hesitating a little consciously and that it does not really want to bring out the consequences. So my question is: will the Minister of Finance guarantee that we have the figures before there is a parliamentary election so that we can have a real, open and precise discussion also in the area of unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130654	Now, with all due respect to the questioner, I think that it is actually relatively large, although sometimes it may seem that it is not, when we are discussing the sharpest in the political debate, that it is a bit of a minefield that we are stepping out in here. Because when we are talking about daily allowances and calculations and data and estimates and answers from the ministries, it is probably a conclusion that it is relatively easy to get together in the Folketing that what has been estimated and assessed so far and based on rules changes under the previous government was perhaps not sharp, compared to what happened afterwards. I think that has been a very large part of the public debate. That is why I am quite comfortable with the fact that we are taking this very seriously, that we are going to get a look at what is really going on in the area where we have a whole commission which, quite independently and with the participation of both employers' and employees' representatives, is going through these things thoroughly. This is what we are doing, which is now the best professional way of designing. This is not something that I politically interfere with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130755	Sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130756	I think it would benefit the political debate just to have these answers, so I just have to ask the Minister for Finance at the end, because I know how to give priority to various matters in a ministry • whether the Minister for Finance will say to his house: this is so important, so prioritize it, get the answers before a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130821	I'm gonna tell you, for the record, that sir... Peter Christensen has one more opportunity to ask if he will take advantage of it, but there is no demand for that, I would like to say. But there's gonna be a chance. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130830	Well, you have to wait for that in breathless excitement. But I would very much like to say hello to Mr. Peter Christensen and say that the Left, too, wants better estimates of what is about unemployment benefits than the estimates of which one gave oneself at the time when one had government responsibility. It is certainly not a political obstacle that stands in the way of completing the work that I tried to express in my reply, expected in May. I have as much wish for this as the questioner, and I think that is also the case with the benefit commission and its chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130904	Sir. Peter Christensen? We're probably not getting any closer). My best bet would also be that we have reached where it is repetitions we get into, but you can never know. In any case, Question No 1 is: One final debate. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It is also for the Minister of Finance, and it is for Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130923	The question is this: does the Minister agree with the Chairman of the LO, Harald Børsting, who told Polito on 27 March 2015 that it is the Left and not the Social Democrats who are exponent that it should pay to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408130937	Thank you very much for that question too. And let me start by stating quite clearly that it is my firm and firm position that working in Denmark should pay off. It is in the interests of the individual employee as well as of the Community that there is a financial gain in taking a job, and that is, and has always been, a fundamental value for my party, the Social Democratic Party, and for the government of which I am a member. Of course, Heri also means that I totally disagree with the view that the Left should have patented one way or another, that it would be worthwhile to work. And just like the chairman of the LO, I can at least regret it if some people mistakenly had the impression, for it is a statement that almost demeans itself if you are in trouble to look at the impact of government policy. And that's why I owe Mr. Jacob Jensen has a relatively great thank you for having this opportunity to establish some basic facts, namely that this government's economic policy has meant that for the vast majority of ordinary Danish employees it is better to work today than it has been able to do in the past, also better than when we had a VK-led government. The government, with the 2012 tax reform, went very well after it should pay better to have a job, and this should apply to all employees, not only to those who earn the best. And that is why we have almost doubled the employment allowance for ordinary workers, and we have also introduced the special employment allowance for single parents. And it has played a major role in the economic benefits of being in employment. For example, do you take... From the point of view of the so-called difference amount, the gain for a single cash benefit recipient with two children who will be in employment in 2015 has increased by approx. 600 kr. a month or more than DKK 7,000. per year since 2011. And for a corresponding single recipient of benefit, the gain has increased by approx. 500 kroner. month or approx. 6,000 kr. a year. And for a couple on cash benefits, the prize has increased by DKK 300. month or approx. 3,600 kr. a year. And that's in relation to the bad old days when we had a civil government, and that's just the effects in 2015. After all, the tax reform is still being phased in, which means that the economic benefits of being in work are increasing further all the way up to 2023. The effects of government policy on the number of people with relatively low differences can also be measured, i.e. persons with a difference of less than DKK 2,000; the month, and the number is estimated to decrease from 139,000 in 2013 to approx. 100,000 people when the tax reform is fully phased in. So, in summary, from day one this government has had it as a key priority that it should pay off to work and the government has delivered in relation to that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131222	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131225	Thank you for your answer. I assume that the Minister of Finance recognises the figures produced by the government itself, and from them it appears that even after the tax reform that the Left has carried on and which ensured that there was a majority and we are pleased about that, and thanks for the cooperation that has been completed in 2023, that is to say in a very long time, there will still be a quarter of a million Danes, for whom, as is called in economic language, there is a weak financial incentive to take a job. And there will be in the vicinity of 17,000 Danes for whom it actually costs to go to work. That may seem to be a lot or a little, but does the Minister of Finance not think that this is a problem or perhaps a challenge that we must jointly continue to solve, as we have tried to do with the tax reform that we have done together? That is why, of course, I fully agree with the chairman of the LO, Harald Børsting, who says that this is what the Left is the guarantor of. But I am glad, if that is the case, that I understand that the Minister of Finance will continue along that path too, that is to say, that we need to push further to make it worthwhile to work so that we simply get under a round zero so that it can pay for everyone to work and so that no one in this country will have to pay to go to work. I think that is morally wrong, it is also economically wrong, but it is morally wrong that we have a situation where, even after we phase in our tax reform in 2023, we are in a situation where there are a quarter of a million Danes who have a weak financial incentive to take a job and that in round figures there are 17,000 people who actually pay to go to work. We in the Left do not think that is enough, and that is why we would like to move on along that path, and we will, regardless of the election of the people and the result of it, encourage us to work together subsequently to bring that figure down further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131419	I think this is almost one of the most exciting discussions we can possibly have with each other here in the Folketing. Just a few quite scattered points: firstly, in connection with the questioner's use of these figures, I would like to call on all those who follow this debate to go straight into it today with the network and to check the Detector's treatment of the Left's political rapporteur's treatment of these figures for whom it is not worthwhile to work and who should have the money at work, etc. Check it out, it's way better than I can do it. Secondly, the questioner will agree with me that today, when it comes to ordinary people getting money out of work, we are in a much better situation than when the Left had government responsibility. Thirdly, the debate on the tax reform, on which we fortunately agreed at the end, after the President of the Left had been to Rio and back again, was that we, as a government, wanted to give tax relief to the broad group of ordinary workers, while the Left wanted to give them more at the top of the income scale to those who already earn quite well. Fourthly, I believe that all parties in the Folketing, except the Left, have a screaming interest in hearing the Left's plan to achieve the objectives outlined by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131526	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131527	Detector, and I don't know what. I can only refer to an answer to Question 235 of 5 March this year, which has been given to the Committee on Finance. This shows that there will be 17,700 Danes who have no financial gain from being employed or taking a job, and then you have even been kind enough to distribute it at regional level. So these are not figures I or our political rapporteur or others are making up. It's the government's own numbers. Therefore, I am quite so without being polemical, what I almost sense the Minister is here animated that we can continue along that path. And when the Minister says that the Left just wants to grant top tax relief, that is not true. After all, it is the government's own parties that want it. After all, it is the Radicals who have been out to say that the tax at the top must be lightened. The Left's plan is that we would like to reduce taxes, but that it should be for small incomes, so that the difference between being outside the labour market and in the labour market is increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131619	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131620	So, listen to me: the negotiations on the tax reform were characterised by the fact that the Left and that was a very, very rare exception to the practice of the Left in the years that we had during this parliamentary term... maybe by mistake chose to put its own policy forward in concrete terms and, of course, made a concrete proposal as to which tax reform could best be envisaged in relation to the proposal presented by the government. And it was clear that one of the main aims was to give relief to people with high incomes rather than to people with ordinary incomes, that is to say, to a greater extent at the top and, to a lesser extent, in terms of the employment allowance. This is not a reason to spend time arguing about, for fortunately it is fully documented. We have also answered questions on this matter by the Ministry of Finance. We can dig that up, and then we can meet and discuss it again if the questioner has the courage to give us the opportunity to do so in a week's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131713	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131714	Well, I always have the courage to discuss with the Minister of Finance, and it's always a pleasure. But I do not hear in this answer that the Ministry of Finance is now taking this into account and recognising the response that the government itself has given, namely that there are 17,700 people, according to the Finance Committee, for whom it is not worthwhile to work. So far so good. So I just want to ask, what exactly is the government's plan for this? I was delighted to see the Minister of Finance in that I think it was Deadline here a few days ago, where he just put forward that there should be some broader reforms and that something would be done. But what does the government really want? Now the government is very busy kissing the Left, although we have put forward streaks of proposals both on this as well as in all other areas, but it remains that we do not really know what the government wants, apart from one thing, namely that the government wants to move on. But what do you want in this field? Do you want something, or are you just gonna leave it that way in the dark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131802	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131803	In other words, the questioner is very sorry, but it is certainly the Left that is in the unpleasantly isolated situation here in the Danish Parliament, since all other parties in the Folketing, who otherwise disagree on so many other things, agree on one thing, namely that they want to know the economic policy of the Left in detail. And in the face of it is a government which has an economic policy, even an economic policy which works and which is linked and which has been laid out in great detail. There is a 2020 plan, and there is a road map, moreover, a fully funded roadmap for exactly what we have to do with in reality throughout the next parliamentary term. In addition, we can do even more useful things. I think we will, too. But as far as we are concerned, things are under control, and things have been put forward. They can get even better. Let's hope that's how it goes. As far as the Left is concerned, there is absolutely no answer as to what direction things are going to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131854	That was the question to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Jacob Jensen. We shall continue with the same constellation. It is still for the Minister of Finance, and it is still Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131904	We are also continuing a little in the same vein, because the question is: why does the Minister think that the chairman of the LO, Harald Børsting, considers that it is the Left and not the Socialists who are exponent to be able to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408131918	Thank you. This reminds us a little of the other, but let us just continue, and then I can start again by stating that for my party, for the Social Democrats and for this government, it is a fundamental value that it is worthwhile to work. It is not a position on which the Left or some other parties have a special patent, and it is and has been a priority objective of the government's economic policy and, as I have just been very pleased to see, it is something on which the government has delivered concretely in relation to that agenda, although it shows very clearly that the government's policy has increased the benefits of being in employment and increased the available amount for the vast majority of ordinary Danish employees. I cannot, of course, comment on the background to the statements made by the chairman of the LO to Polito, but I can see that Mr. Jacob Jensen is somewhat selective in his way of quoting Harald Børsting, for in that article it is stated, for example, that Harald Børsting will ensure that it is worthwhile to work, and he would like to do so in a different way than the Left. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation and respect for the views expressed by Harald Børsting, which reflect, in my view, a progressive idea of the interests of employees, which follows the line my party has taken in implementing. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask what the Left really wants on this point. Looking back at the 2009 tax reform of V and K and the Danish People's Party, you can see that you gave very large tax cuts, but they were given to the very richest, and at that time the Left was obviously not so concerned with ensuring that everyone had an economic advantage by being in work. And again, when the tax agreement was negotiated in 2012, the Left was in no way busy getting the employment allowance on track. No, they proposed instead of relief in the top tax. In addition, the Left has not given any concrete answers on how to secure a greater economic advantage in future by being in work. The Left has said that they will introduce a new • and I understand the modern cash benefits ceiling and use the proceeds to finance tax reliefs, but it has not come any closer than that. And if you ask how far that goes, you can look at V and K's old cash aid ceiling by comparison. This would give a gross estimate of revenue of 80 million. kr. If so, for example. Assuming that the Left's goal is to halve the number of people with a difference of less than DKK 2,000, the employment allowance would have to be increased by 2015 for just under 20 billion. kr. Clearly, this would not go very far with the 80 billion. kr. proposals have been put forward in concrete terms. So my question is again: what exactly does the Left want on this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132148	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132150	I think the minister may have to wait a few months to get the role of the minister asking. I do not know whether it is me or perhaps some of my colleagues who will then be sitting over here who can answer. That's what I think we're gonna do, at least we're hoping. But I just want to ask the question: is the system we have now okay when you look for? Again, these are not figures that I have, but as we have of course asked in government offices to be perfectly clear about them, for example, when one of a couple, that is, where both spouses are on cash benefits, gets to work, then the family gets a prize of about DKK 1,000-1 100. per month. This corresponds in round numbers to 6 kr. per hours, if you work 37 hours a week. Is that enough? Is that okay? Is it enough incentive and gain to actually enter the labour market, take the bus, the train, the bike, also in bad weather, make an effort? Is that reward enough? We in the Left do not think so; we want to increase that reward by reducing the tax on small incomes. I ask: what is it that the government wants, apart from the government's desire to move forward? I therefore need an answer from the Minister for Finance on exactly what you want. Or are you satisfied with a situation where as a couple of cash benefits, one of whom enters the labour market, you get a prize of DKK 1,000. a month, that is to say, 6 kroner. In class? Is that all right, is that satisfactory? Is that the level that the government says you're gonna have to make a profit? Or what does the government want? Because we are being asked about this over and over again, and I reply quite calmly and can refer to stripes of proposals. But all I can see from the government's policy is that you look back and look at some reforms that the VK government, incidentally, carried out and against which the Socialists were opposed. Then you can see that things are going a little better abroad, and then things are going a little better in Denmark, that is how things are now going, and then there are some reforms that we have made together, where the Left has been with each and every time. That is what you can refer to, and then you say: things are going better in Denmark and we want to move on. But on to what, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132353	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132354	Well, that was an interesting insight into the Left's world picture. But just to repeat what is beyond doubt: it is better to work for ordinary employees today than it could when we had a civil government. When we have negotiated these things and have agreed, the division of roles has been the same every time. It has been my party, the government in which I sit, who has looked at the conditions of ordinary employees, people at the bottom of the income scale; it has been the Left who would rather spend the money at the top every time. When it comes to the future, yes, you have a government that has a clear, concrete, specific economic policy, a plan to follow. And yes, things are not going a little better, things are going very steadily, in the direction of things looking much brighter in the Danish economy, because we have managed things in contrast to before. And in relation to the opposition, in relation to the Left, we can see a whole Parliament not just a government asking questions, but a whole Parliament wondering why we can't find out more about what it is you really want to be elected to implement if you are fortunate enough to have government responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132458	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132459	I take the strong, strong interest in the policy of the Left on the part of the government as an expression of the recognition that it is, of course, the policy to be followed by a parliamentary election. At least that's how I see it, and I think that's right. But when the Minister is again standing here praising himself and the government for the results that we in the Left are glad to see, even though they appear in the small part of the world, I just want to ask why this is so. As I see it, it's three things. This is due, firstly, to Frau Merkel, Germany, Sweden and others around us. It is going a little better there, and it is contagious on the Danish economy. Secondly, this is due to the reforms that we have jointly made, we have been around them, among other things. the tax reform, where the Left has been involved as a constructive opposition every time. Thirdly, this is due to the reforms that the VK government had carried out before the 2011 elections, but which the Socialists opposed. May I ask: does the Minister of Finance agree that the political contribution to this development is due to the reforms adopted under the VK government and one tenth to the reforms adopted under the current government, supported every time by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132608	Well, it must be wonderful in that way to be the protagonist in your own world view. I don't think I can compete with that. I may have a more sober look at how the world works. However, I believe that, in line with the overwhelming majority of independent economists who follow what is happening in Denmark, we have made a very significant contribution to the fact that we are now moving towards something that looks very solid in economic terms, and thus, overall, have handled things far better than those from which we took over, which, of course, passed on an economy in very deep problems on very important points, both in terms of our competitiveness and our productivity, our employment, our unemployment and our growth. There we are now by not just being moving towards something that is a little better, but moving towards something that is solid. And it would suit the Left to show a little more sincere pleasure in that development.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132704	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132705	I shall do my utmost to show genuine joy to all of us because things are going better. That's the best I could do. I hope that will be enough for the Minister of Finance. And why do I do that? I do, of course, because if we were to have the opportunity after an election by success and skill and what do I know, the confidence of the citizens to take over Denmark's management, then it is clear that we only have an interest in getting it in as good a condition as possible. That is why we have voted every time, in contrast to the Socialists, when they were in the opposition, who have voted and negotiated and made the ambition greater than that put forward by the government. That is why I would just like to ask again quite quietly on the basis of my introductory question: what kind of policy can we expect from the government if the accident is out and they continue? We are animated to cooperation, even after an election, because we can see that the challenge has not been solved, even with the tax reform we have jointly made. But I do not have an answer to what the government wants, Minister of Finance. Is it that you want to reinstate a millionaire tax that you chose at the end? Or what kind of tax measures are you working with in government offices, since we are not allowed to know about it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132809	No, that is, the greatest risk that we will have a different and more negative economic development than what lies, not only in our forecasts in the Ministry of Finance, but also in the National Bank's, in the OECD's, in the IMF's, in the European Commission's, in the big banks' forecasts, which are very positive, is a change of government, where we come back to the bad old days with an economically irresponsible block policy in Denmark. That is what we got; that is what we had; that is what did not work before the change of government. What we can choose instead is to stay on course, to work together on matters, not just with the Left, but broadly, in fact with all the parties of the Folketing. After all, all parties in the Folketing have somehow been involved in decisions that have been important for the economic development that is now going better. Unfortunately, this is not just the case with the Left; there have also been interludes where the Left has been outside, for example. a number of financial laws. But, overall, everyone has carried on, and it can continue after an election if the government also continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132906	I thank the Minister for Finance and thank him. Jacob Jensen, because that was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 3 and that was also today's last question to the Minister for Finance. Then we'll see if any of it is repeated next week. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's for the Minister of Justice, and it's by Mr. Simpson. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132925	Thank you for that, and the question is: How does the Minister relate to figures from the National Police's latest safety survey showing that Bispehaven in Aarhus is one of the places in Denmark where citizens feel most insecure, and does the Minister intend to take initiatives in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408132943	I feel basically that some of the most important things, I think, for us people, are that we are safe where we live and where our children are raised and going to school, and it goes without saying that in the residential and residential areas and where we spend the vast majority of hours, it has to be safe and good. Therefore, I am sincerely both sorry and concerned that we can see that the very, very high level of confidence, which is in Denmark, is lower in some of our vulnerable residential areas. This applies in some places in Aarhus, for example. Bispehaven, which we are talking about here, but it also applies to other places. That is why the efforts in the vulnerable residential areas are one of the most important, both when we talk about housing social work, but also, of course, when it comes to concrete police action. I can say that the East Jutland Police, which is the responsible authority in the case of Bispehaven, is very aware of what is happening specifically in the area. Østjyllands Politiken will in 2015, i.e. this year, launch new initiatives and targeted initiatives that can help to create security in, among others. Bispehaven, which we are talking about here. That is why I would say in general terms: the fact that we have vulnerable residential areas where there are crime problems is unfortunately not a new issue. On the other hand, we know a great deal about what needs to be done, and that is why, of course, all the authorities have to go in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133118	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133119	Thank you. I am certainly glad that the government fully agrees with me that the fact that there are so many who feel insecure in a particular area of Aarhus in this case is extremely alarming. This is something to take seriously. It's about Bispehaven being the second least secure area in the whole country according to this index, and every third resident in the area feels insecure. It is not a new matter, as the Minister actually reveals. Among other things: in consultation with the Minister's predecessor back in September last year, the Minister said at that time: I recognise that there are enormous problems in Bispehaven and that is a priority for the government. Now half the time has passed, and now it turns out that it is still a huge giant problem. Perhaps it has even become a major problem, at least according to what the index shows. That is why I am very concerned that the priority that the government is making with regard to the police is the right one. If you go in there and look at why people are insecure, you see that, among other things. It is because there are not enough police in the area; there are not enough police who travel and are part of it, so to speak, normal life. It's at the same time at a time when the government feels it's just the right priority to put 225 extra officers into these many new photocars. So I'm just wondering if out in Bispehaven you think it's the right priority. To close a hole in the treasury, they say: Okay, now we put 225 officers in some photo cars instead of some of them helping to make life safer for those people who at the moment feel extremely insecure in part of Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133258	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133259	I would like to say two things. Firstly, there was no revelation in what I said, because it has been the case in Denmark for many years that we can see a general high level of security, fortunately. This is something we have earned as a society and community for decades. But the fact that security is higher in some areas than others is not new. That's a problem. Unfortunately, this is the case, which is why the vulnerable residential areas are, of course, one of the most important areas of action. Secondly, as regards the priority given to police resources, I should like to point out to the honourable Member that we have a conciliation group on police finances. This means that the decisions taken on the Danish police have been taken jointly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133338	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133339	Well, I clearly acknowledge that we have a conciliation circle. Nor did I say at any time that we should not acknowledge that. I also think that we should take it very seriously when there is such a safety index. And I can tell the Minister if the Minister does not know that this is something that there is a lot of debate about in the circle in Aarhus, because you take this very seriously and say: we have to do something. But it's just really hard to do something about social stakes and so on unless more police officers get into the area as well. Let us therefore be quite specific: will the Minister promise that East Jutland Police will also give priority to people on the streets of Bispehaven?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133416	When we talk about vulnerable residential areas, I think the questioner knows that the efforts that need to be made are diverse. I myself visit quite exposed residential areas and can see that where the results are most, there is where we put in most places. It may be with the local presence of police, which I personally am in favour of and believe plays an important role; it may be to issue zone bans so that some of the boys who often cause great problems for others get away from there; it may be video surveillance; it may be traffic regulation so that you do not drive around mopeds and cause unrest and disturbances around others; it is the social effort to get children and young people off the street and into the club and leisure environment; it is family and youth work. There are many different efforts that need to be made, but the presence of the police is of course also important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133508	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133509	Well, I agree with the Minister a hundred percent, but there was a question in what I said before in relation to that next to all the other things, as a municipality and not least the social stakes etc. We must do so, and that is also about the fact that there are some police officers in the area who are helping to follow the people who are helping to cause unrest, helping to ensure that social efforts are maintained and so on. So this is a specific question which I am asking now for the second time: will the Minister go in and promise to ask the East Jutland Police to give priority to the fact that more officers are going out into Bispehaven?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133543	No, of course I will not, because it would be a completely wrong way to run Danish police if changing justice ministers were to stand in the Assembly hall and decide at which addresses and locations the Danish police should come. This would, moreover, run counter to the agreement we have on Danish police, and it would be in direct contradiction with the way we run the Danish police, where we have political confidence that a police assessment will be made in relation to how the resources are best used. Therefore, the only wise answer is to give, of course to say that the police must be present in our vulnerable residential areas. I expect the East Jutland Police to take the problems that are in Bispehaven very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133629	That was the last answer to question 4, so I thank Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Question No 5 has been deleted, so we move on to Question No 5. 6. That's by Mr. Keating. Karsten Lauritzen, and it's also for the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133645	Just to be absolutely sure, I need to ask you if it's true that sir... Peter Christensen is no longer an enquirer. Sir. Peter Christensen is then I'm quite sure I'm doing it right for once. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133657	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that there will be more or fewer asylum seekers in 2015 and 2016 than in 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133709	Fortunately, the Danish Parliament is asking so many questions, and I have to be sure that this is the right thing to do now. To this question I would like to say that I do not personally have a basis for expressing my views on asylum forecasts, and that is why it is a rather strange question that the Left is asking, i.e. whether I believe that there will be more or fewer asylum seekers, because this is such a matter of opinion, and we do not need ministers who think anything about future figures. What I can say, on the other hand, is that there are forecasts in the area of asylum, which are not politically determined or politically determined, and there will of course also be forecasts for the years ahead. If we look at how developments have been, at the Left, we have been relatively stable in the area of asylum for a number of years, and in 2014 there will then be a rather sharp increase, which is, of course, very closely linked to the disastrous developments in the Middle East, from which many, especially Syrian refugees, come. We can now see a fall in the area of asylum by the end of 2014, which has continued here in 2015. And if we look at the estimate for the number of asylum seekers expected in 2016, it will of course believe the tradition, I would say • to be determined, in connection with the drafting of a Finance Bill for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133844	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408133845	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think the Minister chooses to be polemical, and that is the Minister's right. I understand that, because the government has to put it bluntly and as we say in North Jutland, where the minister has also roots a really, really bad case. For the truth is that you have a very, very big problem, we government And that is not true when the minister says that the figure has been fairly stable and that 2014 is then a year when things have gone so far that a little less has come than in the past. In 2011, there were 3,800. In 2012, the government did nothing to tighten up but, on the contrary, relaxed one rule after another and gave more and more money to recognised asylum seekers in public benefits, i.e. from 2011 to 2012, the figure increased from 3,800 to 6,184. Then it increased further the following year, without the government doing anything but improving the conditions, to 7.557, and then it culminated in 2014 with small 15.000 asylum seekers. And then the government made a micro-tightening, for which the Left also voted, and the government said it would lead to fewer asylum seekers. If you look at the figures for the first 2 months of 2015, which are the ones that are known the Minister may know the figures from the month of March too, but they are not published yet; but if the Minister has them, the Minister may tell it, but it is after all the Minister's choice that there were 1,077 asylum seekers. And if you compare it and it will be honest to do so with how many came in the first 2 months of 2014, i.e. last year, then 1 015. And my main calculus tells me that the difference is plus 62 asylum seekers. So this means that the government's austerity, the government's policy, as the government says, leads to a fall in the influx of asylum, because this is what you really want for the first two months has led to an increase of 62 compared to 2014. Can the Minister not confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134054	It is, of course, in its own way incredibly remarkable that one can deal with the whole asylum problem without even dealing with the rest of the world. In other words, the questioner cannot with an ordinary seriously heavy burden claim that what is happening in Denmark is merely a question of Danish asylum policy, when we are in a situation where millions of people are on the run and we have the largest flows of refugees since the period just after World War II. Do we not owe it to the people we are talking about just to mention that we are not fleeing for fun, and that it is not least because of the extremely brutal crimes of Islamic State that real, very many people are being sent on the run and that, of course, it can also be seen on the figures as far as Denmark is concerned? Has there been an increase in the area of asylum? Yes, there is. It's no wonder when you look at how the rest of the world is developing. Have we tightened up the area yet? Yeah, so do we. Will asylum seekers continue to come here? Yes, there will certainly be. Can I predict exactly what the pattern will be? No, I'm afraid I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134202	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134203	The policy of the Left is that we want to help more asylum seekers in the neighbourhood instead of supporting a system where traffickers make fortunes sending people across the Mediterranean, where they lose lives and limbs, to Denmark, where many of them do not have the happy lives that they would like. That is why we want to tighten up. We want to increase help in the neighbourhood, but tighten up the conditions we offer here in Denmark. And there I think it would suit the Minister for Justice to say whether the Minister wants more or less asylum seekers to come to Denmark in 2015 and 2016 than came in 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134246	I have no wish for more or less to come. It would then be a strange objective to set up as the country's Minister of Justice, because the fact is that when people are on the run, we are, in my view, under both a human obligation and an international obligation to help people in need. Having said that, it is of course absolutely crucial and essential that we can tackle the integration challenges that we can bring to our society by the arrival of both refugees and immigrants. And that is the balancing point we are striving to achieve with the tightening-up we have made in the area of asylum. However, to set targets for more or less to come, I think that is a strange discussion. I really think that the first discussion that the questioner raises about how we are dealing with the refugee problem at all is much more interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134333	Then the time has come for an enquirer, sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134342	The minister answered Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, that the government has no attitude as to whether there should be fewer or more asylum seekers. But you can only see that there have been many more, and there have been quite specific descriptions in the daily press about how smugglers are also aware of the conditions offered in Denmark, and that asylum seekers therefore choose Denmark as the country in which they seek asylum to a far greater extent than in the past. It may well be that the government wants to talk itself away from a responsibility for why Denmark has such high costs in this area. I just don't think that is the truth because conditions mean something to the number, and the number means something to how we as a country are able to integrate and take care of people who come here. The government has put forward a tightening up and half of the government says that it will not have any significance, so that means that we will have a large number of asylum seekers who stay here. My question is this: does the government intend to make a plan rather than how it will be financed in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134457	It sounds almost as if the main problem of the Left is that we do not understand that, because the wisest thing in a situation where there is such a relatively large change in the area of asylum in Denmark is that we work together to find the necessary solutions. And the question is whether the two parties that are now dueling in the Parliamentary Chamber are not the natural focal point for those solutions. For the Left, as well as the Social Democratic Party, know that it is not an answer like that given by the Danish People's Party that refugees can be sent to Africa. It was not long since the proposal had been put forward until African leaders said: we have plenty of challenges to deal with. So I really think that cooperation between the two parties here is a very good place to start as far as asylum is concerned. I also noted that the asylum proposal put forward on behalf of the government, that is. Of course, both the Social Democrats and the Radical Left have voted in favour. So I do not think there is any reason to talk as far away from each other as the question put in this Chamber today. As far as the future is concerned, I can say that it is the case that we have started working on a concept of temporaryity in the area of asylum, and I hope that this will also have a spill-over effect in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134618	Sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134619	In other words, I am a great supporter of common solutions, especially if they are moving in a sensible direction, and that is certainly the problem. Yes, we have voted in favour of the government's action. We never thought it would make a huge difference. What my colleague Karsten Lauritzen showed with the figures was that nothing seems to be happening. That's what the radical leader is, sir. Morten Østergaard points out that he does not believe that it is of any significance either. That is why we end up with some people probably staying here. And we are talking about a minimum of 1 billion. kr., which is then missing next year. There is my question to the Minister: will the government make a plan rather than how to finance these unpaid bills?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134719	But there are no unpaid bills here, because the expenditure in the area of asylum this year has been financed. And that's how it's gonna be year after year. Forecasts are made as to how the area develops and, of course, it has to be financed. That is how it is when there is a crucial area of society that is changing. There is nothing new about this issue. It is true that it costs money for Danish society, of course, when refugees come and knock on our door. One of the perhaps best ways of reducing the costs is by supporting what has been put forward by the government, that everyone should work and contribute when they come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134802	Then we return to the main questioner, sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134807	To sum up the debate here, I would like to say that I had actually hoped that the Minister would come and say: yes, the government expects fewer asylum seekers to come to Denmark in 2015 and 2016. We in the Left would have been delighted because we are concerned with the number. The number matters, and it is not just a question of whether or not you want to help people. It is also a question of how many people we in Denmark can help and how many we can integrate. Therefore, I would like to end by asking the Minister for Justice what the Government has of expectations of what the asylum forecast will be in 2015 and 2016. Does the government expect that the austerity that has been carried out will actually have an effect? Because it doesn't seem for the first 2 months of 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408134853	I would like to say two things: the first is that forecasts are a technical tool. And if there is one area in which it is difficult to predict the real developments, then of course it is the area of asylum where a great many things are involved. In addition to weather conditions and transport routes, as the questioner has mentioned, it is clear that the very conflict situation, especially in the Middle East, is very decisive for which refugee flows are also coming to Europe. The second thing I want to say is that I don't think there's any room for or any need to be romantic in this area. For it is a great task to undertake as a society to integrate people who come from outside with a completely different background from that which is customary here. That is why, as I said at the outset, it is a question of finding the right balance between maintaining our international and human commitments and subsequently making integration work. And the point is that the only concrete proposal we have seen to find the right balance is the draft law that the government has put forward and which the Left has voted in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135006	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall continue with Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others. 7. It's still for the Minister of Justice, and it's still for Mr. Knox. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135017	Will the Minister present before the elections a plan on how to finance asylum expenditure in the future if the number of asylum seekers continues to be at the current high level?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135034	The financing of the asylum area fully follows the financing needs of a number of other areas of society, and this will be reflected in the budget proposals presented year after year. It goes without saying that if there is an increase in expenditure in one area or another, it must also be financed, and this will be reflected in the financial proposals. If we are trusted by the Danes to continue our intergovernmental cooperation then, that practice will not change, and I would not recommend that it do so for another type of government either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135104	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135106	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. Of course, that was not something new I had hoped for, but not expected. But you're allowed to hope. In other words, the truth is that the great pressure of asylum, partly caused by unrest around the world, but certainly also by the relaxation of the conditions imposed by the government during its reign, which is in no way offset by the small micro-tightening that has then been made, leads to the bill passed on to the Danes, so that the money, the tax dollars to be found elsewhere, runs up to plus 9 billion. kr. Here in 2015. And a large part of it is money that we could now spend better elsewhere. A large part of this also comes from development aid, where the government has taken part in the financing of expenditure. It is actually the case that in 2015 it is small 20 per cent. In other words, the aid that should go to help people in developing countries, people who might need more help than an asylum seeker who can afford to pay people smugglers a lot of money to be smuggled across the Mediterranean and come to Denmark to go to the very poorest in the world who are now going to the accommodation of asylum seekers in Denmark. That is why we in the Left want a system where fewer asylum seekers come in and more help is given in the neighbourhood. We can then help the weakest asylum seekers and the weakest refugees, not just those who can afford to pay a lot of money to traffickers. In this context, it is also relevant to ask the government how it intends to finance this area in the future, because the government has said that it is financed through development aid, and then you will look at how the figures here in 2015 are. There I just want to ask the Minister for Justice: if you see the same influx in 2015 as you have seen in 2014, how will the government finance the expenditure for asylum accommodation? Because they are not fully funded at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135301	I think I have to correct what the questioner says about the government saying that we will finance it with development aid. That is not true, because we are following the ordinary DAC rules, after which something can be financed in that way, namely the immediate arrival of refugees in Denmark and the first time. However, it is not the case that we can use our development aid to cover any expenditure in the area of asylum. Here we are following the rules that are, and I think that, in this way, is wise, and I can fully and completely stand by that. But did the questioner really say that the large influx of Syrian asylum seekers not only to Denmark but also to many other countries in Europe, in part does the questioner really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135346	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135347	After all, it is a question of choosing to help in the neighbourhood or choose to create a system where people pay people smugglers a lot of money to get to Denmark. And there the government has helped to create a system that supports the billion-dollar business for traffickers, rather than working for a system that supports in the vicinity. In the Left, we want to support in neighbourhoods. We believe that we will get much more for the money when we use it to support in the neighbourhood rather than for a system that increases the conditions for a family of two parents who are recognised asylum seekers and three children so that they get 10,000 kroner. more a month than in 2011, when we were in government. This, of course, increases the influx to Denmark; it means that there are many more who choose Denmark as asylum destination, where they should instead stay in the vicinity where we can help a lot more for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135438	Just one thing: can the Left Party confirm that there are more asylum seekers from Syria in both Germany and Sweden than there are in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135446	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135448	So, I can confirm that Germany and Sweden are significantly larger countries than Denmark, and I can also confirm that if you look at the number of asylum seekers per year. There are more inhabitants in Sweden than in Denmark, but Sweden is in absolute peak. I believe that Sweden is the country in Europe where asylum seekers are the most frequent per year. citizen. I just have to say that the way Sweden has chosen to lift it, we do not want it in the Left. We want to help, but we want to help in the neighbourhood where we can help many more. The government has created a system that means that many, many more people choose to seek asylum in Denmark instead of getting help in the neighbourhoods, and the government should then assume responsibility for this. And then we just have to say that we have a fundamental disagreement about the approach to this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135530	I think we should just discuss things as they actually are. For one thing, we often have to falsify the political debate when it is in the media, but something else is that when we actually have the speaking time and the opportunity, we should also do so, I think, at a sufficiently high level. Because it is true that there are problems with smugglers. There is an unsympathetic traffic of people in need across borders that others spin gold on. People are being transported under airplanes and stuffed in trucks. There are boats crossing the Mediterranean, although they should not cross the sea in the condition in which the boats are in. The whole system, the whole organization, there is only reason to distance ourselves from it. But then let's have that discussion. Let us discuss how Europe can effectively support the fact that other people's tragedies cannot be used to make money. Let us discuss how we can intensify our efforts in the neighbourhood, rather than beating each other on the head with a Danish legislation which, of course, does not determine it may have an impact on it; I do not deny how millions and millions of people have been sent on the run in this world.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135640	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party So, I'm gonna say thank you to sir. Karsten Lauritzen. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 8 is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135656	Will the Minister explain how she will ensure proper conditions for the employees of the more than 100-year-old South Jutland detention houses and counteract prison escapes when the Minister rejects the proposal to build a new, modern South Jutland detention facility in connection with the courthouse. This is despite the fact that 7 out of 16 prison escapes from the Danish prisons in recent years have taken place from the South Jutland detention houses?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135718	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135720	I would say that when I read the question here, I thought: when did I, as a minister, refuse to build a new, modern South Jutland prison in connection with the courthouse? I don't remember. I think I have said something else, namely that we (1) have a problem with prison escapes it is not huge, but it is there; 2) there is a significant risk to our staff that people try to escape or do so; 3) of course, it is a fundamental violation of both our legal certainty and the sense of justice in this society that there are people running away from our criminal services, whether they are prisons or not. We are in Denmark challenged by the fact that we have some old detention houses whose physical facilities are not good enough. As the questioner probably knows, a few detention houses have been closed down here recently, but perhaps most importantly, we have decided in the conciliation circle around the Department of Criminal Services to set in motion an analysis work so that we can form a comprehensive view of the overall capacity and then lay down the plan for ensuring that there are proper physical facilities everywhere. I'm sure my speaking time is now spent. I just want to say that it is not alone because, of course, we are working on this area in the institutions of the Criminal Services, so that we reduce the number of those who run away.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135845	I would just like to say that if all the ministers complied with the speaking time as thoroughly as the Minister of Justice does, Question Time would be cut short. Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135854	Thank you. Now it is the case that the Minister has also had some predecessors, and this is not a new case. This is a matter which I have also had up to with the Minister's several predecessors in the post in relation to the construction of a modern South Jutland detention house. Unfortunately, I do not think it is an answer to say that there will be a report which will be completed by the end of 2016 because we have 7 out of 16 prison escapes in Denmark that have taken place in recent years from the four South Jutland detention houses. There are problems with the conditions of the employees and there are problems with safety to a large extent. That is why the answer is not just that there will be a report in many years' time; that there will be a good solution in many years' time. The answer must be that one also has the political courage to act here and now and look at the opportunities that lie in terms of also saving police forces and resources and also saving the economy by building a modern South Jutland detention in connection with the courthouse which is located and which covers the part of the Western Land Court that belongs to southern Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408135951	Well, yeah, but now it's the case that in addition to having such a safe look for a local element in our entire legal system, it's probably an advantage for the country that the Minister of Justice is trying to have a look for the whole country, including the entire country's capacity in terms of detention houses and both open and closed prisons. It is clear that if we are going through more work to renovate detention houses and maybe close even further, we will of course have to know the capacity needs of the whole country, and that will probably require a slightly larger analysis than what you may have time for when you are elected in South Jutland and there is a parliamentary election just around the corner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140037	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140038	Well, the Minister does not look polemical, because it is not something that has just been set in motion, so it is a matter that has emerged because there is a parliamentary election in the near future; it is a matter that we have been discussing for several years now, and it is therefore irresponsible that the Minister should try to sweep it off the table. There are employees in the detention houses who have experienced several recent prison escapes, most recently over Christmas and New Year, where there was a violent prison escape with a homemade knife and a direct threat to the employees. The Minister of Justice's former Minister of Justice's colleague for Justice replied that the farm areas had been networked; so some of the problems had now been dealt with. After all, we have some acute problems that cannot wait until after 2016, and I would just like to hear the Minister: when the Minister says that you have to have a look at the whole country, does the Minister believe that there is no need for a new detention house in southern Jutland, despite the fact that we also have a cross-border problem which assumes that there is also a detention capacity in South Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140140	No, of course the Minister does not say that. On the other hand, I actually said almost the opposite, namely that when it comes to the overall capacity of criminal services, it takes a look at the whole country, including, of course, the South Jutland part of Denmark. I do not think we should in any way sweep this problem off the table; on the contrary, it is a serious problem. I would like to say, however, that this is not the greatest thing we have in our judicial society, but of course it poses a problem, and our colleagues in the Department of Justice are the most important resource of the Department of Justice. It is also those who stand out there with some of the citizens with whom it is hardest to work, and therefore their safety, safety and working environment must of course be at the top, and therefore work is done, you can say, here and now with the relationship work inmates and employees in between, and what you can call the close security measures. But there is
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140244	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140245	Yes, the analysis is under way, and I have been talking about it with the Minister's predecessors for a few years. I just think it is extremely regrettable that we have a government that will not look at the challenges that are here and now, but that it refers to a report coming in 2016; then, of course, you do not have the financial responsibility to find solutions afterwards, and that is what this is all about. When, throughout this reign, the government has refused to look at the massive problems of outdated detention houses, uncertainty for the employees who work in the detention houses, which, as the Minister himself points out, can help to challenge our legal certainty because we see prisoners fleeing, it may be more important that the minister will just push it over to a future government to finance it and solve these challenges. I do not really think that suits the Minister when everyone knows that there is also a need for a detention house in South Jutland forward-looking, both as regards border overflowers, but also as regards the general arrest house problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140344	If we now carry out an open and honest analysis of the fact that we are challenged at some of the physical facilities in criminal justice, then it should be strange if the whole obsolescence process has arisen since 2011; it probably is not. We have, in fact, the problem of old, obsolete facilities, including detention houses, which are located in a physical location in cities that make it difficult to secure them and that this is a problem that changing governments have known about for many years. It is also the case that there have been exiles in the past; there is no indication that prisoners are fleeing because of the color of a government that is good years and there are bad years, and that will probably be the case in the future. I think we have to do this together. I think we should be quite sober and realistic there about that, but my recommendation would be that it should be done on an enlightened and sober basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140437	That was the Minister for Justice's last answer to Question No. 8, and I thank Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, and I also thank the Minister for Justice, because that was the last question to the Minister for Justice. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9, which is for the Secretary of Defense, and that's by Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140454	Thank you for that, President, and I will read out the question: What can the Minister say about the work to draw up a concrete implementation plan for the efficiency improvements foreseen in the 2014 Growth Agreement in the preparedness for 2016 and beyond?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140515	Thank you. Today, there is a well-functioning rescue team in Denmark with a good and constructive collaboration between the state and municipal rescue teams, and there must also be a well-functioning and sustainable rescue team in Denmark in the future. This is the clear starting point for the government and I am also assuming that both the Left and the Danish People's Party have agreed on this. I would like to take this opportunity to describe the process that has been set out for further reform work in the field of rescue preparedness. With the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2015, the growth package that has been concluded in the area of the rescue team with the Left and the Danish People's Party and the agreement on the rescue team in 2015, the overall framework for the future adaptation of the state and municipal rescue team has been established. With the agreements, the clues have been added to a reform work which, among other things, includes: must help ensure that Denmark has a rescue team in the future, designed with the highest possible efficiency, quality and coordination. A key element of the further process is that with the agreement on the municipalities' economy by 1 January 2016, the municipalities must establish themselves in up to 20 emergency units. This work is well under way in KL and the municipalities, and it is still expected that the municipalities will reach the goal of establishing themselves in the up to 20 emergency units by 2015. At the same time, in 2015, a government work is being carried out that looks at how the state adjustments to the growth package can be implemented. The Ministry of Defence, together with the Danish Emergency Agency, is working on this. Before the summer break, I intend to invite the parties behind the political agreement to which I have just referred to a discussion on the further work, and I also expect to be able to present a proposal for a decision-making basis for the political negotiations in the autumn of 2015 when a new agreement on rescue preparedness is to be negotiated. The basis for the decision shall include, inter alia: ensure consistency between the state and municipal adaptations so as to maintain a well-functioning preparedness in Denmark and the implementation plan shall be drawn up taking into account the regional conditions and the volunteers in the rescue response.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140733	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140735	Thank you very much, Minister, for a very long and very comprehensive answer. However, as I hear the answer, we have not really been able to figure out where to pick up the various savings yet, and I fully agree with the Minister that we need a well-functioning preparedness, and that is why the Left is part of that agreement. I also assume, like the Minister, that the Danish People's Party is of the same opinion that there is no one present who can nod but how far has the state adjustments that have been undertaken? How is this really gonna happen? After all, that is what I am fishing for, namely to find out where the money is collected, because we are not part of that, after all, it is the Minister who is sitting with that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140824	I've got to tell Mr. Knox. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. We have found the first part of the economy to be created, among other things. in an agreement with the Left recently in force here from 2015. In addition, it is also the case, according to the plan, that we should sit down in the parties that have taken responsibility during this year, after the summer break in the autumn, and we would also like to invite others to join us in order to find the remaining money, and it is precisely to have a decision paper about it that the Ministry of Defence is currently working with the Danish Emergency Agency on the state side, so that among other things. The Left can help to decide where the money will be found in concrete terms when we sit down at the negotiating table after the summer break, exactly what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140916	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140919	Thank you. State savings have been found for 25 million. kr., and we have an agreement on that too. It is, of course, the case that savings of 75 million have to be made. kr. In 2015, 150 million. kr. in 2016, EUR 200 million; kr. in 2017 and still looking forward to more than 1 billion. kr. towards 2020. But so far, we have found the 25 million. kr., so what I'm hearing is that this is going to be shot up a little until the summer break or autumn. Which one was it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408140954	What was the message was that in the autumn of 2015 we have already found the money that was to be found for 2015 and we have also given each other hands on the government, the Left and the Danish People's Party that we will find the remaining money in the state area, and in addition to doing our part of the work, we are in full swing with the municipalities in making their share of the work. This means that the clear expectation is that by the end of 2015 we will have both the municipal and the state part in place, just as we have agreed, and I am pleased that the Left continues to support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141035	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141038	I have to conclude by saying that once again we are seeing such a little agreement on a bill shot out to after a parliamentary election, which will have to be held by 15 September of this year. But we have to look at that and hopefully we will have to agree on it. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141103	I would say that the government intends to continue after September as well, and there I will look forward to meeting with the Left, so that we can jointly implement the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party, and I also hope that other parties here in the Folketing will go in and take co-responsibility. It is important that we have a strong state preparedness that can work closely with the municipal preparedness, so that we have a secure framework for the overall effort for the benefit of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141131	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9, which ended here with everyone looking forward to future cooperation, and it's nice to hear it. Then we were encouraged today. We have moved on to Question No 1, by Mr McMillan-Scott, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party It is for the Minister of Education, and it is for Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141149	Thank you, sir. President. The question is this: does the Minister consider that a derogation should be granted in relation to the elementary school's graduation in sport?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141202	Thank you for the question. I simply have some doubts as to why the questioner is asking it. I hope, then, that the questioner will clarify it in his next question, because it is the case that, on the one hand, in the conciliation circle where the Left is involved, we have decided that there should be a test in sport starting this year, and, on the other hand, it is the way in which every attempt is made to make it possible, in exceptional circumstances, to obtain a derogation. Now I'm just guessing what the rapporteur is interested in. I would just like to say that the rules are such that if, for example, you do. If there is considerable disability or insufficient Danish knowledge, you can be exempted from the compulsory examinations of the primary school, whichever is the case. So there are already exemptions, but I simply need some help to find out what the questioner is concerned with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141248	That help is coming, I think. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141251	Yes, please. I'd be happy to help the Minister in this area. I'm thinking that, among other things. are free schools, which have a special focus on different areas, which in their daily lives, you might say, have a great focus on exercising. Let me give you an example: It is the Royal Theatre Ballet School, which spends a lot of hours teaching ballet. On the other hand, they may now be forced to drop some of the ballet in order to have to teach traditional sports. That is actually what I would like to ask a few questions about. Should it not be possible to grant exemptions in such a context?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141345	It is the case that free primary schools must measure up to what is taught in primary school, and that is to say, to the common goals. Whether there is a specific problem for the ballet school, I find it hard to see. They have facilities, and there are a number of the disciplines included in the broad professional description, which is also for sport. I am certainly not aware of the fact that there should be a problem, but if anyone is addressing us, we will, of course, look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141414	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141416	Well, I can tell you that I have talked to some people, including the Royal Theatre Ballet School, who, yes, are worried about this part, because, as they say, their students spend a lot of the day just exercising, that is to say, having a ballet. And, of course, they are nervous about whether they are now forced to actually include specific sports education in their schedule in order to be able to live up to and measure up to the subjects of the primary school. That is actually what they are asking for, because as they read it, they see no possibility of obtaining a general exemption for the school in this area. And that is actually what I would like to ask you, namely whether the Minister will be willing to try to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141504	Now that I have in the meantime had a little leafed in my papers, I can see that there has been an exemption application from the ballet school, and it is looking at the ministry now. It just hasn't come up to me, but now I've been made extra aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141517	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141518	Thank you. Then it can be said that we might have pushed it into action here in the Parliamentary Chamber today. I can say that it is about a week and a half since I spoke to someone from the Royal Theatre Ballet School who had these concerns and where we actually agreed that I would try to raise the issue in the Chamber this afternoon. I hope, then, that the Minister will take a sympathetic look at it when the application has been made to the Minister. Because, in such a situation, I must say that I think it would be crazy if they were forced to put ordinary sports education into the schedule, especially when it is young people and pupils, as I said, who get so much exercise through the ballet in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141600	As I said, it just came in; the Ministry is looking at that. I think that the starting point is that free primary schools should measure up to the different disciplines that exist in it, so we will, of course, take a serious look at that. Does it make sense to grant a derogation, or does it really lie in what is equivalent to what is to be done in sport? And, of course, we'll let the ballet school know directly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141624	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 10, so I would like to thank both the Minister for Education and Mrs Matthiesen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11, which is addressed to the Minister for Health and Prevention, and that question has been asked by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141639	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: what will the Minister do to minimise the number of unnecessary hospitalizations of elderly people with problems that should have been avoided in the past, so that in future the elderly will be treated with dignity and respect without feeling insecure?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141700	Thank you to the questioner. My position on this problem is quite clear. We cannot be aware that so many elderly patients are hospitalized with diseases that could have been avoided if we had taken care of them earlier. We, as a society, can and must do better. I would like to highlight three initiatives that the government has launched and which are intended to prevent the very fact that older citizens are going to need a hospital bed. First of all, with last year's economic agreements with the municipalities, the government has set aside a total of 950 million. kr. to a targeted increase in preventive action taking place in the municipalities. It is here in the municipalities, for example. in the home care of the citizen's own home, that it really is worth putting in so that the citizens do not become so ill that they will need to go to the hospital. Secondly, we have set aside 725 million. kr. in the 2015 Finance Act to strengthen efforts in general towards older medical patients, and that money is intended to be used to prevent specifically admissions of elderly and vulnerable citizens in municipalities, but also to ensure that there is sufficient capacity and staff in hospitals when the elderly have to be hospitalised. Thirdly, well-functioning cooperation between municipalities, hospitals and general practice is a crucial element in order to organise a proper process of weakened elderly citizens. Here, I think, there is reason to highlight the five brand-new health agreements, where in all regions there is a focus on taking care of older citizens in the best possible way. For example: In the Region of North Jutland, there is an agreement on an outgoing function with nurses who can visit citizens who are in urgent need within 1 hour in the citizen's own home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141901	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141903	Thank you for your answer. But now it's not enough just to make some deals and drop some money. It is also important to ensure that it is really the individual elderly who meet something that is better than it was. That is why I would like to ask you, following on from the Minister's reply: what is the government doing to follow up on the fact that the measures taken can actually be shown to the elderly and can be shown in the statistics? Because we can see from the statistics that there is still a large, large difference between the municipality and the municipality, and there is a very, very large number of elderly people who are being hospitalized unnecessarily. That is why I would like to ask: how does the government follow this up to ensure that there is a noticeable change and improvement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408141951	May I not be allowed to arrest the remark that it was not meant to mean anything by agreements and with money. Well, I've noted that in his financial bill, the Left hasn't set a penny, not a penny, to meet this problem. I have even noted that the financial bill says that the money that is said to be spent on health should either go to private hospitals or/and have to be financed by making savings in the regions and in the municipalities. So the thing about saying to us, what is this evaluation you're going to do of the money you've dropped off?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142030	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142031	That was no answer at all to what I asked. And there is no point in the Minister trying to avoid talking about this, because it is about people. It is about the individual elderly who are unnecessarily hospitalized. In 2013 there were 67,000 • 67,000! Many elderly people are thus removed from their familiar and safe environment to be treated for a problem that could have been solved at home or had been solved at the care centre where they now live. That is why it is so important to see how the government ensures that the actions taken are followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142118	Well, it is absolutely true that it is about people, and it is absolutely true that 67,000 admissions are an all-too-high number. But that doesn't change the fact that this government has done something about it, that this government, in terms of the economic agreements with the municipalities, has allocated 950 million. kr. for a targeted boost to preventive action and that we have allocated a further 725 million by means of the Finance Act. kr. to ensure that we can do something targeted at these admissions. I actually think it's a little poor, but we're seeing time and time again with the Left at the moment that you can't get any answer to what the Left is going to do about the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142200	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142202	The Minister is still answering by the wayside, and now it is the case with Question Time here that these are questions from the members of the Folketing to the government and not questions from the government to the members of the Folketing, I would like to emphasise. For me, it is very important that we look at how the individual elderly are treated around society, and here the government has a responsibility, in cooperation with the municipalities, to make sure that we do not have such a large number that are hospitalized for no reason so that it could have been handled by proper treatment at home or at the care centre. That is why I would like to ask once again: what is the government doing to follow up these actions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142244	Many of us who have entered politics have entered politics with a desire to tell us what is actually our policy, what we want, what kind of society we want. That is why I am sorry if I have come to ask about the policy of the Left and then you feel trampled on your toes because you have to tell us what your policy is. I shall try to stay away from that, although it is a problem which is currently so pronounced in so many areas when you meet the Left. This is the part where there is no answer, you don't know what this is about. I can only note that, on the question raised by the questioner today, the government has acted, put money off, ensured that agreements are made which, as I explained, are consistently addressed to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142327	Thank you, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, and thank you to the Minister for Health and Prevention. It is the case that Question No 1 will be answered in writing. Question No 12 has been deleted and we move on to Question No 12. 13, which is addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, and the question has been asked by Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142352	Thank you for that, President. The question is: will the Minister explain how he thinks the rules on parental pay for children with disabilities should be administered?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142407	Thank you for the question. It follows from the rules on parental pay for the placement of their children outside the home that parents should, as a general rule, contribute to the payment for the placement if the parents have income above a certain amount. And then there are a number of possibilities for municipalities to exempt parents from their own payments. I think that basically is a sensible principle, and it is also rules that have been in force for many years and also under changing governments. On the basis of the cases that have been in the media, among others: from Aarhus and I think that is what Mrs Ellemann may also be thinking about. However, I believe that there may be grounds for giving the rules a service. Therefore, I have also asked the Ankestyrelsen to conduct a study of the municipality's practice in this area, and I have also asked my officials to make an assessment of the rules. I have explained this earlier to the Danish Parliament in a number of parliamentary answers. I cannot and do not want to be determined whether the rules should be changed and, if so, how, before the work that I have set in motion has been completed, also in view of the fact that it is very, very complicated law that we are dealing with and because the changes to the rules can also have a major impact on both municipalities and, of course, parents and children. That is why I also believe that there is a need for us to clarify the matter properly before I take a position on what should happen and I think that everything else would be inappropriate. So once the Ankestyrelsen has finished its investigation and my officials have finished the legal review of the rules, I will of course also comment on what I think there should be a need for any changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142554	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142556	But let me begin by thanking the Minister for recognizing, as well as the fact that, in the context of the interpretation of the rules, there are probably some ambiguities, at least some inappropriate ones, which translate into different cases and which make the municipalities under one approach very different. In this regard, it is true that there has been a specific case in Aarhus, where the Danish Agency of Appeal has also reacted with a decision of principle. However, the Minister starts by saying that, from the outset, he agrees with the basic principle that some proportion of parental pay is reasonable enough. I would like to say that I agree with the Minister in that part, in other words that where parents are still receiving child support, it is possible to agree that it is reasonable for there to be a comparable parental payment in relation to other places for other children. The minister then tells us that he has asked the Ankestyrelsen to take a closer look at the wide range of cases that have taken place and also asked the officials of the Ministry to then react and make a proposal. That is why my second question should be very brief: when can we expect that work to be completed, and when can we expect the Minister to have a proposal if something is to be changed? When will we know better?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142734	I would also like to start by signing for it and also replicating it with the fact that it is difficult to understand for the municipalities. It really is. At the end of the day, it is also a question of the citizens who, of course, need to be helped to have some sort of certainty about how things are being cut down. After all, these are some of the things we agree on that need to be looked at, because it is deeply complicated. What is going to happen is that, as I said, I will look at what the House wants, the Ankestyrelsen will, as we usually do in the Committee on Social Affairs, in peace and happiness when we discover some challenges. But then we usually sit down and look at the results and studies that may now be and find a common ground. Again, I don't hear at all that we disagree. We want to make it transparent, we want to make it easy, and that is, in fact, the reason for looking at the whole area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142840	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142842	But then I'll just repeat the question. Because we note that there are very likely differences in relation to how the municipalities handle it, and the different ways of dealing with the rules here give rise to quite a lot of concern and uncertainty on the part of the parents who may receive a bill may not receive a bill. Therefore, my question was whether the Minister will not set a bit of a timeframe for when we have the results of that study so that we can act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142919	I completely forgot to answer that. I expect that by the end of the year we will have a clear picture of this whole area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142929	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408142931	It's a long time before the end of the year. I understand it could be a big deal to investigate this area. In other words, another way could also be • and perhaps that is what I would appeal a little to the Minister to bring together the social rapporteurs, so that we can simply have a direct political debate on how the rules should be in this area, so that we can have clarity. Could that be something that the Minister would take the initiative on? Will the Minister summon us so we can go straight to the bite? So we agree that there is a problem here that we would like to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143010	One could well imagine that, but the problem will still be that the reason we have set these two things in motion with both the Ministry and the Ankestyrelsen is that we want a solid knowledge base to stand on so that we can again make some qualified decisions. Of course we can meet, and of course we can go to the steel, but it will be on the assumption that we do not have much knowledge, because that is why I have asked them to look at it. And that is precisely because it is deeply complicated. We have also been sitting together and we have done so sometimes over the past year with deep, deeply complicated issues that have just taken time. Well, the adoption area is one area that just took time to look at. Again, I want to say that this is about people. That is why I also believe that it is important, in respect of the people whom the rapporteur is also very concerned about, to have a proper job done. I do not have any views in principle that we should not meet, and the rapporteur knows that too. I don't mind meeting you. But again, there has to be some sense in it. And that is where I just think we need to have a solid knowledge to stand on so that we can make some qualified decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143122	The question is closed. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14 by Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143130	The question is to the Minister: Will the Minister explain the content of the Divorce Package 3°, which he mentioned in Go'morrow Denmark Monday 23 March 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143148	I just need to find the right papers. It is such a complete cascade of Leftmen who are here today and roughly the same questions. There were the papers. As Mrs Karen Ellemann is well aware, I have the parental responsibility law very, very high on my agenda, and I am pleased that we are in full swing with important initiatives in this area, initiatives that I do not know why have been called divorce package 1 and divorce package 2. Under the heading of divorce package 1 is hiding a package of initiatives we have just adopted in the Folketing. I am, of course, very proud and happy about this, and here we have focused on cooperation harassment, which means that one cannot of course harass oneself that a child loses contact with a parent. Divorce pack 2 I also have high expectations of. Here, as an experimental project, we are introducing a completely new and very different approach to matters in the system. Parents who turn to the system for the first time will now be faced with preventive action rather than law. We have linked a comprehensive evaluation to our project so that we can see how this works, and it is of course also my clear expectation that preventive conflict management will both be able to reduce the number of cases in the system and create much better solutions for the benefit of those for whom we are all fighting, especially the children. When I was in Go' morgen Denmark, the theme was the involvement of children in the case. Are we doing well enough for the kids in the system? The issue is part of the review that we have decided to give to the area in broad terms and, at the same time, we will also examine the nature of the conflicts. For many years, our legislation has given parents responsibility for finding solutions themselves, and the question now is whether we have perhaps created more room for disagreements, and these are some of the things we need to look at. That is why, of course, it is also time for us to agree on this, fortunately for clarifying what is really at issue here. With my reference again to the rather popular word divorce package 3, I believe that we have reached a point where we need more knowledge, more and more general changes to the system, which should be based on the necessary knowledge, but in the next round, of course, we need more in depth. As I also said in Go'morning Denmark, we must therefore keep the child's perspective in mind all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143420	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143422	Well, thank you for the statement on what divorce package 1 and divorce package 2 contained. I am, of course, quite aware that I was an active participant in it myself. That is why my surprise was also great when I heard the presentation that now there is a divorce package 3 because I am not familiar with it. That is why I am asking the question. I would like to say one thing: we agree that we are not in line with package 1 and package 2 as it were. We note that the levels of conflict are there. Unfortunately, the number of high-conflict divorces is not decreasing. It's like, you could almost think that getting a divorce is something you just can't figure out, and it's incredibly sinful, because it's usually the kids who are losers in these cases. When the minister sits on Go' morgen Denmark at best time and talks about a divorce package 3, I am very curious to know what the minister imagines to be elements of the package. Because that is not quite enough, I would say to the Minister, just to say that now we need a little more knowledge to find out what should then be in a divorce package 3. I think that when you sit on morning television and say that there will now be a divorce package 3, I have the expectation that the country's Minister for Social Affairs and Child Affairs will have something more concrete to offer as to what divorce package 3 should contain. And I hope the Minister can say a little more about that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143553	I would just like to make it clear that it is not in the best time at noon. 7:00 in the morning. There are other times that are better. I cannot quite understand the amazement, because we have talked about this a great many times, and we have talked about everything we didn't get with and again perhaps a little confusion about that some concepts were created that we have taken to heart with both divorce packages 1 and 2 and that in the third round of the third package we will look at all the things that we have actually held a meeting about. But I do understand the question, and that is why I would like to read out some of the points in order to clarify it just as if there were perhaps some confusion. One of these is that we're going to launch a prevention project... I'm gonna ignore this. Something else is that we need to have more knowledge about the nature and extent of conflicts about the child in divorce cases. These are also some of the things I've been talking about. It's all gonna have to come out in a divorce package 3. Then you may think that you will not, but that is my plan, so that all the things we have set in motion should result in a divorce package 3. There, of course, we need to look at the extent of conflicts, as I said. We must also, as we have also talked about, because I have laid out widely what you would like to see included in the last package. It doesn't have to be the last package, but in the next package we have talked about getting the organizational framework on family law and setting up a working group to look at it. And all the things that we have agreed on together in this way should, of course, result in a divorce package 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143738	Well, thank you for repeating some of the ideas that may be on the Minister's table. And so it is true that the Minister is asking: what do you want, rapporteurs? There I am being frustrated because we have a Minister for Social Affairs who sits at the top of the table and is responsible for making the plays. Now the next question from one of my party colleagues will also be about children's games. As social rapporteurs, we are very much frustrated that there is nothing more concrete on the Minister's table than to say: this is what I want as the Minister for Social Affairs of this country to ensure that divorces do not end with unhappy children's cases and high conflicts between parents who cannot find out. So, can the Minister be more specific? When we are discussing the fact that it is in itself conflicting that we are dealing, for example, with the concept of resident parents, togethering parents, is that something that is part of the Minister's thoughts? After all, the minister is the other equal protagonist in making the plays. Is this something that is part of the Minister's thinking when we discuss elements of a future initiative in relation to divorce?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408143903	I think it's on the verge of being a nasty question, and I can't believe you're gonna be that familiar. Because with the first package we sat down, and then I reached out my hand, and then I said: what would we together want to do to change this? It has simply been an attempt to involve everyone in that process. Perhaps that is why everyone ended up having ownership of it and that everyone ended up voting in favour. The same was true in the case of package No. 2, and the same is true in the case of No. 3. That's why I don't understand. I have said all the way through, if not all the wishes that you had that we could not get into divorce package 2 simply as a service, simply to reach out to you, simply to cooperate with the third party. So the things you're standing here saying, we've talked about. We've been talking about this with resident parents, where I've been saying that if that's what you're looking for, let's do it. And the paper we've agreed on together, you've been in on it yourself, and then you're standing here saying, "Oh, well, I don't really have that, and I'm kind of avoiding it. We've done it together, Karen Ellemann. That is exactly what the whole process has been an expression of. When you say that we social rapporteurs do not want and are frustrated, I have to say that that is not what I hear from the other social rapporteurs. In fact, you have been very, very pleased with the cooperation that I have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144029	The Minister should be aware that direct speaking here in the Assembly Hall, including the indictment form you, is not usually used. The last question from the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144039	I think that was the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144050	Then I apologize to the questioner. Thank you for that, asker. The question is closed. The next question is Mrs Tina Nedergaard, and it is for the same minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144056	Here you go for reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144101	Thank you, and thank the Minister, for being so willing to answer the cascades of questions from the Left, as was mentioned earlier. We are, of course, very pleased with this. I have to read the question and it is this: will the Minister explain the government's long-awaited children's initiative, including commenting on the position in relation to centrally established minimum standards in the country's day-care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144126	Thank you for your question, and thank you very much for your interest in this whole area. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we basically have one, I think, very, very well-functioning day-to-day supply system today, but which can and must be better, because there are some places where we have not succeeded well enough. Among other things: We are not good enough to break the negative social legacy, and for many children, unfortunately, they start at school without the right linguistic skills. The work on the game started back in June last year, and I have since had dialogue meetings with stakeholders on the development of the day-off area. And since the Prime Minister of the New Year's speech stated that the trip has come to the smallest children, we have also held an inspirational and dialogue meeting with stakeholders and experts in the field, in order, of course, to get their input on how to improve the quality of the day offer. To get closer, there are four areas in particular on which we think it is appropriate to look and which were also agreed at the conference that has been held. One is that we need to focus on the smallest children. The second is that we must have every child to thrive. The third is that we need to have more learning and better coherence in school. And the fourth is that we need to have a better interaction with the parents. We know that the day offers give us a unique opportunity to bring all children with us. Good day-to-day services are the key to strengthening social mobility, and therefore, of course, it also makes sense to raise quality. It is also clear that the number of hands obviously has an impact on the quality of daily offers. And it cannot come as a surprise to anyone that, of course, the question of standards is also of great concern to the government. This is among other things. also the reason why the government, together with SF and Enhedslisten, has allocated 500 million. kr. Annually, specifically for better quality in day-to-day offers, and then no later than 250 million. kr. Annually specific to more educational staff in the daily offers. In principle, I have nothing against minimum standards myself, but I do not believe that the time is right to introduce centrally established standards, first and foremost because this can be a really expensive solution. In addition, there is a risk that the minimum level laid down can actually become a maximum for how many educators there will be for a group of children. It is also part of history that we do not currently have a complete and accurate picture of what the norms really are today. Therefore, the government, together with Enhedslisten and SF, has also agreed that a new method should be developed to establish standards in the day-to-day offering area, which will be implemented here this year. And the new classification chart makes it easier for municipalities to compare with each other and support the opportunities for local discussions on the priority of day offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144420	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144422	Thank you. Not only did the Prime Minister mention a major children's issue in her New Year's speech; in fact, she did so in the opening speech last autumn. Let me just say that whether there is an election before or after the summer break, the government will not be able to take a legislative initiative on this side of an election. This simply cannot be done practically. That is why I am so little interested in asking whether, in reality, this is more an election issue than a children's issue. In fact, we take it very seriously in the Left when the Prime Minister launches initiatives, but when you let an entire parliamentary year pass, it must also be something unsatisfactory for the Minister of Social Affairs that nothing is happening. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144511	On the question of how I deal with nothing happening: there is a lot going on. After all, we have held a major conference with all the stakeholders, and we have held dialogue meetings in order to have precisely qualified this whole area. That is why a great deal is happening, but it is important that we look through the whole area, and it is important, as I also mentioned, that we see on the well-being: where is it that we should put in when it comes to well-being? We have, for example. A lot of boys who don't thrive. There are many who have problems with their language, and they are both ethnic Danes and ethnic minority dancers. It's also some of the things that it's interesting to look at. So there are many elements. But the proposal here makes it quite clear that we are working to qualify the day-off area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144607	I am happy to admit that the government, together with the Enhedslisten and the SF, has committed funds to the Finance Act. I would like to stress that the Left also provided funding for the increase in the area of day-care. But that does not change the fact that the rather modest resources, as they are for this large area, do not compensate for the increase in the number of children per year. adult in the day-care institutions, such as: FOA and BUPL have indicated in the media. So all I have to do is ask the Minister, because that is quite relevant: when is this going to happen? Conferences, expert hearings, etc. are good, but for the individual children out there, it is the legislation that we are adopting here that will apply and that will make a difference to them. So I'd like to know when the playout is coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144654	I cannot tell you exactly when it will come, but of course we are working on it, and there is no reason to delay it, because of course we want to go out with it. With regard to the figures from BUPL and others mentioned by the questioner, there are many figures on the norms. When we've done a new classification statistics, it's just to have a baseline. There has not been a baseline before. And then people also sometimes forget to go along with the fact that there is also a falling number of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144726	That is why I was quite careful to mention that it was pr. I am aware of the fact that this may seem a little misleading from the primary school area. Of course, when there are fewer children, there will also be fewer professionals to care for them. But I would still like to know where the government is in relation to the minimum standards. I note that the Prime Minister has been clear and said that this is not going to be the case, but I am still in doubt when there are rapporteurs from the Socialists who are on the way to changing their minds about it. Does the Minister expect minimum standards and funding to be included in the proposal put forward by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144806	I think that the Prime Minister, as the rapporteur also says, was very clear in her approach to it with minimum standards, and as far as I remember I was sitting in the Chamber too, the Prime Minister said that she was not ideologically opposed to it, but that of course she also included another essential element, namely the economy. And that is how I feel; that is to say, things must be balanced. With regard to rapporteurs who go out and have views on politics, I would say that is the case, and that is something that is part of the political process, and I think there is nothing new about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144849	Thank you to the questioner. The question is closed. The next question is: 16 to the same minister by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144906	Thank you. The question is: will the Minister explain why he believes that the fight against trafficking in human beings will not be affected by the government's no longer supporting the outreach work and aid to foreign sex workers and women acted as prostitution in Denmark, which Pro West in Fredericia has carried out over the past 12 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408144924	Thank you for the question. With the 2015 Rate Pool Agreement, EUR 18 million was allocated. kr. to the efforts of NGOs for victims of trafficking in human beings. The pool replaces the subsidies which NGOs have so far received directly for their action against trafficking in human beings, and this has been agreed among the pool parties, including the Left. The application pool aims to support the efforts of NGOs for victims of trafficking in human beings, and the application procedure ensures that, on the basis of the criteria set to support, we select the most appropriate interventions, as well as the procedure ensures equal treatment and transparency in the allocation of funds to NGOs in this area. In this way, there has also been agreement in the pool of rates. Applications for funding from the pool are now being examined by the Ministry, and I expect that the organisations that have applied for funding will be notified of the issue within a few weeks, i.e. a few weeks. Very short time. Pro Vest, to which the questioner also asks, has had access to apply for aid from the pool on an equal footing with all others who meet the pool's claim requirements, and I can inform you that the Ministry has not received an application for aid from Pro Vest. Apart from the outreach work of street prostitutes, it has been possible to apply from the pool to support projects across the country. When the outreach work among street prostitutes is limited to the Copenhagen area, it is mainly due to the fact that there is street prostitution in Copenhagen, while the outreach work in other parts of the country, among other things. is done in clinics and in prisons. With the pool, we have sought to focus our efforts so that the funds are used where they benefit most victims of trafficking in human beings. Indeed, the focus of the pool should also be seen in the context of COWI's evaluation of the latest action plan to combat trafficking in human beings showing that most of the actions taken are not identified through the outreach work, but through police, trade unions or other activities. Then I would like to emphasise that the government's action plan against trafficking in human beings remains national. I think that is worth noting as well. The work will continue to be carried out jointly by the authorities involved and the organisations receiving support from the application pool. The Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings is responsible for coordinating national social and health efforts for victims of trafficking in human beings. In addition, a number of other authorities are involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings. This is among other things. the police, it is SKAT, and it is the Labour Inspectorate that is at the heart of identifying victims of trafficking in human beings, as well as those who receive support through the application pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145227	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145230	Thank you. After all, the Minister's own ministry has advised Pro Vest that you can apply for outreach work in relation to street prostitution, but that it can only take place in the metropolitan area. And that is the reason why we have not sought. A clear guide has been given to the fact that the activities being carried out today can only take place in the metropolitan area in future, because the Minister and the Ministry do not believe that the outreach effort in the rest of the country has such great value that it is worth supporting in the future. That is why we have the discussion we have today: that the Minister and the Ministry have reduced the pool in relation to the outreach work and thus cut off Pro West, which has otherwise been responsible for the outreach efforts in the Region of Southern Denmark for 12 years, from seeking the pool. That is actually why I ask the Minister who it is that the Minister is supposed to be doing the outreach work in the Region of Southern Denmark now that we no longer want to support the Pro-West. Then it is not true, as the Minister says, that the evaluation report says that there is no contact in the country. You have. The evaluation report also recommends that the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings should create a newsletter and be better informed about NGOs because there has been a lack of proper information around the country. The evaluation report, as I am sure the Minister himself is aware, also recommends that the work of the NGO should be adjusted upwards, and the resulting effort should be even more supported, in other words everything that the Minister is now cutting from it. That is why I would just like to ask: does the Minister seriously believe that it will benefit the fight against trafficking in human beings that, after an active effort by the Pro-West for 12 years, they are now being cut off from the opportunity to continue the outreach work in the region of Southern Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145412	That's very interesting, because we were in the pool of rates very much in agreement about these frameworks and also the way we had to deal with it. But now we are just starting from COWI's evaluation of the action plan to combat trafficking in human beings, and it showed that relatively few victims were identified through the outreach work: five victims over the last four years. And there it is just that, of course, I would like to have unbridled funds... it could be absolutely fantastic... but we don't have that, and it makes sense to use the funds where they are of course most used. That is what has been the premise for the whole approach. Then the rapporteur is also trying to create a picture that nothing is going to happen, and she also asked who is going to do that work in such a concrete way. The Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings will do that, as I also started my speech by saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145512	But the fight against trafficking in human beings and the prosecution of the perpetrators are not just about how many cases are being conducted or how many women ultimately choose to take a period of reflection and have a return process or are identified. After all, this is also about the outreach effort. It is about all the footwork that is about creating confidence among women, so that they really are also made to testify against the backers. There has only been 403 consultations with Pro Vest last year and had contact with 113 different sex workers. Many of them subsequently end up in brothels in Copenhagen and subsequently end up in police custody and become part of the women identified. And that is the work that the Minister for Social Affairs and the Government are now completely cutting: all the outreach work that lies in the Region of Southern Denmark. I just have to stick to the fact that there is nothing in COWI's evaluation report that that effort has been bad. There is nothing in the COWI evaluation report that says that this should be stopped. It says, on the other hand, that you have to upgrade it. That is why I just want to ask the Minister: why is it that there is this Copenhagen focus where it is only the outreach work in relation to street prostitution in Copenhagen that the Minister wants to support? And why has the pot been geographically narrowed in so that Pro West in Fredericia can no longer continue the activities in Southern Denmark that they have stood for for 12 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145630	Well, I can answer that very, very simply, and it will be a repeat. That is because street prostitution is seen mainly in Copenhagen. And then it is not true that nothing is happening where Pro Vest has worked. I have not said, moreover, that they have done badly; it has been fine. However, it is about focusing efforts, and the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings should actually do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145650	Thank you to the questioner. Then it's the co-questioner, Karen Ellemann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145656	Let me continue where my colleague, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, left off because, in a written answer, the Minister gives the impression that exactly the searching effort is important and acknowledges that the searching effort is very much helping to get in touch with these women. Why, then, is it that the guidance given to Pro Vest by the Ministry so clearly indicates that this is no longer the way to do it, but it is at street level instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145731	Well, that is because we have just chosen to focus on it and because we have also chosen to focus on street prostitution, and that is the framework we have created together. But again, that doesn't mean you're abandoning women. The Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings must take care, as I have repeated a number of times, of their efforts in the rest of the country, and that is what they will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145758	But that is an answer that is very difficult to deal with in relation to the specific situation we are facing with the efforts of Pro-Vest. Because exactly with the reports coming from the Ministry, they are cut off from applying because they say that now it is no longer the searching effort that is recognised as an approach to actually preventing street-plan prostitutes from becoming in Copenhagen afterwards. Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145829	I mean, it's both a resource issue and it's also about focusing it and using the funds where they're being used in a different way. And not many victims have been identified; that has actually been one of the reasons for it. That is why the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings must continue to increase the efforts that are needed, including in the rest of the country. So that is what it is all about in its simplicity. And then we made the framework together, when we were negotiating the rate pool in October, so long ago it wasn't that long ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145901	Thank you to the questioner. Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145907	Thank you. It is true that we have set the framework for the overall effort in the field of trafficking in human beings, but it is not the conciliation parties that have produced the application guide. After all, it is not the conciliation parties that have guided the organisations and informed them that if they do not focus on the outreach work and street prostitution in Copenhagen, then they can no longer seek, and thus have also cut off Pro West in Fredericia from continuing the efforts they have made with great success over the past 12 years, in which the last few years have sought and had contact with no less than 113 women of 403 different consultations and helped them. That is what the Minister has now cut them off, and I just want to hear from the Minister: does the Minister really believe that this means that we still have a national plan of action when it is cut off from the whole of the searching work that Pro West has carried out in the region of Southern Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408145959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150000	I recognise that they have had contact with a great many, but there is just one thing that the questioner completely forgets and does not highlight, and that is what the starting point has been. Have a great many women been identified from trafficking in human beings? You don't. I read something before, and I would like to do it again, just so that we can make it clear, i.e. that it has been relatively few, it is five victims over the last four years. That is why it makes sense to focus our efforts, as we have done, and I am very pleased about that. Does this mean that nothing will happen where Pro Vest works? Isn't there anything going on in the rest of the country? Of course something's happening. That is what we have the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings for, precisely to do that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150045	The question is closed; thank you to the honourable Member and thank you to the Minister. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17 to the Minister for Business and Growth by Hans Kristian Skibby, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150057	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister consider it to be a good decision that the National Bank has decided to outsource the coin and banknote production, with which we risk printing all Danish payment units abroad in future, and will the Minister do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150117	In October 2014, the National Bank announced that it will phase out the internal printing and marking of coins during 2016. The decision means that the National Bank will retain all questions about design, appearance, security and expertise regarding production internally, but will purchase the actual printing of notes and the embossing of coins from external suppliers. The reason for the National Bank's decision is that the demand for new notes and coins has been decreasing over a number of years, among others. because notes and coins are less and less used for payment transactions and because the improved quality of banknotes means that the need to print new banknotes is less than in the past. This development means that the National Bank does not consider it economically appropriate to continue the actual production of banknotes and coins within the National Bank. The National Bank estimates that the decision will result in a total saving of 100 million. kr. Until 2020. In addition, I must refer to the National Bank for details of the decision itself. At the same time, however, it is important to stress that it follows from the legislation relating to the National Bank that it is up to the National Bank itself to decide on this matter. In this respect, I am confident that the National Bank will continue to ensure the safety of Danish notes and coins in the best way possible. The government has no plans to amend the National Bank of Denmark. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Danish National Bank is not the first to outsource coin and banknote production. A number of other countries, including Sweden and the United Kingdom, have already outsourced the printing and embossing of notes and coins and, as far as I am aware, there have been no problems with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150256	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150258	Thank you. I would therefore like to sign for the answer, although perhaps it was just a little brief in relation to the relatively important discussion as I think it is. After all, the minister is putting up with such a kind of cold case business scenario to stay in the US and the English, because it's not just that there's some money to save for the National Bank. It also has something to do with the fact that when a country has a tradition and a thousand-year history in order to be able to coin it itself, as is also stated in our constitution.Of course, for many Danes, it is a sad decision, and that is something that has to do with our identity and our cultural history, that in Denmark you have Danish notes, which are also printed in Denmark. And that is, of course, the angle of what has provoked us part of the Danish People's Party. I have also noted that there are these economic gains. It is estimated that you can save up to 20 million. kr. a year, and of course it is also a lot of money to save. But it should also be remembered in this connection that there are also 44 employees who are in charge of getting a note. It's people who pay taxes and go to work every day. It's people who have very special educations; it's coin-graves and all sorts of other people who have special technical training to be able to produce these Danish notes and coins. That's one side of it. The second is the one I mentioned at the outset, namely if not the government also has a position on it in relation to the cultural and historical fact that Denmark as an independent nation prints its notes and coins itself. I am well aware that some of the mint printing has already taken place outside Denmark today. I believe that it is in the Czech Republic and Switzerland that Danish 20 coins have been printed. But from there to closing the banknote press right over here on the other side of Slotsholmen and not printing Danish banknotes in Denmark, we in the Danish People's Party seem far too drastic to decide in relation to the quite small savings that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150510	First of all, and first of all, I tried to give a precise answer within the options that are now being given, in relation to how much time I have to respond. So some comment that I am giving brief answers may seem quite unacceptable to me. I tried to answer quite clearly the question that has actually been asked here. Then I would say that typing the Danish coins and notes, that is to say what to say on them, what terms there should be, what design there is at all, will not change. It will also be the case that the crowd will decide for themselves as well. But that we can say rationally, like other countries, that we will, of course, get things presented where it is best and where it is most economically beneficial, I do not see the great concern about that I really do not see the great concern about that. You can design the notes and coins, just as you like, so you can stamp them with all the flags of formation and the national identity you would otherwise want, so there is nothing culturally lost there. It is difficult to feel anything special Danish about the banknote being made in Denmark rather than being made elsewhere. What is particularly Danish about it must surely be the way in which it is marked, the way in which it has been issued and, moreover, what is behind the fact that there is purchasing power and other things. So I can't quite follow the concern. I would say that even stamps it is also a kind of currency that is also printed abroad in many places. If the Danish People's Party cares a lot about the fact that it is all very national and so on, I can tell you that the gold is safely over in London at the moment, so if you really cared a lot about keeping the Danish national stamps and something else, etc., you could start making proposals to have it transported back home. By the way, it would be an exciting operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150656	The latter shouldn't bother me very much, i.e. that the Danish gold was in Denmark, but I also have a great understanding that it should of course be safe and secure. I don't have a problem with that. However, I do not think that the Minister should make this a rather unmanageable debate in relation to what is fundamental. I think the Minister is trying to make fun of the discussion, but this is not something we in the Danish People's Party have just made up, it is something that artists, historians and others have expressed great concern about, so this is the fact that we in Denmark from 2016 onwards no longer have to print our banknotes ourselves. The Minister spoke a lot about the cultural aspects of this, but I also mentioned the second, namely the technical aspects. One thing is that you can decide your own design, appearance and quality and set the safety and requirement specifications.Of course we can; you can do that in all the places where you have sent things in tenders. But that doesn't change the fact that by removing these 44 employees from Denmark, who have a very specialized technical knowledge, coin diggers and all the others who are dealing with these technical things, important knowledge is lost for Denmark too, by the fact that expertise, in relation to how these notes are safely printed, slips Denmark off the hook and, for example, ends up in a printing plant in Switzerland. That would also mean that, if one day the unfortunate situation should arise, one of the countries to which we have outsourced the printing of Danish banknotes, for example, would have to face a crisis. Ukraine before; Ukraine is halfway out in a civil war; then it may well happen that you get into a very bad situation. Perhaps the Minister should reflect on that a little more rather than just make such a rather festive comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408150845	Well, if there was an outsider who had to judge the degree and taste of populism here, sir. His Kristian Skibby wins. That's what it used to be. What is being said here is certainly not very thoughtful. Many ideas can be made as to whether the National Bank would seriously send the minting of coins and the printing of notes to a place where there was a risk of safety risks. The answer, of course, is no. Of course, you would react promptly. It is clear that counterfeiting and fraud will be combated at all. There is no problem with that. But may I not try to look into it a little the other way. 'Cause if you're unhappy with some decisions, and I understand that you're here, that means you're going to have to change the law on the National Bank of Denmark. Is the Danish People's Party on an errand where you want to change the law on the National Bank of Denmark? It is a very interesting question to answer, as far as I know, that has so far been opposed to it. And there is no doubt at all here. In fact, it is not a decision of the government. The National Bank is independent, and it is the Executive Board of the National Bank that has the right to make what they think is the right operational decision here. As for artists who may be concerned about whether they are not allowed to design anymore, I would say that they should not be. It will still be the case that when a new series of coins or banknotes arrives, it will usually be put out to tender. Then I would say, with regard to expertise, that this has been the case in many sectors. There are certainly also some places where it is difficult to get the right cartmakers, but at some point it has perhaps been very sensible to reduce the amount of cartmakers in Denmark because there is no need for so many of them. And so it is with regard to the international division of labour here. Unless, of course, there is no reason to do so, 20 million will be set aside. kr. the year, which could otherwise have been used for something else sensible, to maintain employment and occupation for the sake of some unspecifical danger in the future. I think it might all be very, very expensive if you're going to have a society like this, because why stop here? There are many other places to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151101	Thank you very much for the questioner. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151105	Thank you. I do not really think there is any reason for the Minister to be angry, because this is a legitimate discussion. We are concerned in the Danish People's Party, and we are not the only ones. The trade union is also concerned, and I know that the Social Democratic Party is working closely with them, and art historians are concerned. Why are they? They are, because since 1690 there have been such small symbols that show that the coin is printed and struck in Denmark. So it's a piece of Danish craftsmanship. As my colleague, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, says, then there will be a large number of specialist craftsmen who, from 2016 onwards, will no longer be able to do that work in Denmark because they will disappear elsewhere or completely stop working. These are such things as engravers, medals, labs, chainsmiths and mechanical and electronic engineers. For us in the Danish People's Party it is important to maintain this craft in Denmark. Is it not in the same way the government's ambition to ensure that such things are here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151213	I would like to try to repeat it without sounding angry, and I did not want to do it here, and I tried just to get involved as much as the Danish People's Party in the debate.• What the artistic expression should be like in the future, with or without small hearts: There will be absolutely artistic freedom for it. I do not imagine that the Governor of the Bank or anyone else will sit down and ban those hearts. It will be there, and people will feel that standing with a thief in your hand, or whatever you have in your hand, is so Danish. That's the way it is. There will be no difference in that. But maintaining technical expertise in the future, although it is actually better economically to allow others to carry out the task, is, of course, to take a rather far-reaching view, and I just ask that is what I was trying to argue with before what, if you put it out to all sorts of other areas? What kind of craftsmanship are we not allowed to have at some point some form of international division of labour? Everything else could be pretty expensive. In any case, I would say that, in the case of social democracy, it is the case that if we stand and have to choose between spending 20 million. kr. a year to maintain some technical skills of some craftsmen whose work we can in principle get cheaper somewhere else, or to spend the 20 million. kr. e.g. care for the elderly or something else sensible, then we choose the latter. That's why we're looking at it rationally all the way through. Then I would say that one day it will happen that we have outsourced it and have to bring it home, may we not at some point also be able to find out how the craftsmanship was actually carried out? I think it is quite well described, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151403	That's a very old-fashioned attitude. It was the 1980s and 1990s. There production was moved to Eastern Europe and China, and now it has been found that it is actually a stupid idea because there are a lot of other things that are lost. Now you try to hold on to it. The government is even trying to do it itself. But it is said here that the National Bank can do as it pleases them, and they are entitled to do so. It's the board that decides. But we also have a government that could just pick up the phone or go to the National Bank and say: we would like to keep it in Denmark; it is only 0.4 per cent. of the enormous profits that you have; so you can afford them. Does the Minister not think it is worthwhile to have a talk with them, so it will be in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151447	No, I will take the view that if it is a matter of preserving jobs in Denmark, such as production jobs in Denmark, then we should not maintain production jobs that will not be needed in the future. There's no need for that. Nor is there any reason to maintain unproductive or costly costs in Denmark. There isn't. You have to pursue the rational goal all the time, I think. Then you can have a strategy that there are some places where you want to develop business, industry and other things. We have, and we are pursuing this with our production strategy and other things. But to say that it is inalienable and that you have to have all the old crafts, and that they all have to stand intact, is quite a comprehensive and expensive view to have. I mentioned cartmakers before, and we can take weavers. We can take one, the other and the third, where at one time there has been very specialised craftsmanship. What if they say that we should leave them at all costs? It is, of course, to impose additional costs on the Danish taxpayers which they did not need to be charged, and I do not think that is the wisest way of pursuing economic policy, including business policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151557	Thanks to Alex Ahrendtsen. Hans Kristian Skibby for his final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151601	Thank you. I am almost tempted to say that we will soon have the impression that we have a Minister of Business who comes from the Liberal Alliance when he stands here defending the free, cold market forces, also in relation to printing the Danish coin. The Minister of Business likens it to cartmakers and weavers of tapestries. How often, on average, does a Dane buy a goblin? How often does a Dane buy a new coach? I almost don't have the guts to answer. But how often does a Dane use coins or Danish banknotes? The answer is almost daily. That is why it is absolutely crazy to compare the two things with each other, and of course I think the Minister should stick too well to that. The Minister has mentioned this several times in his reply, with the saving of 20 million. kr. and that it is also in the interest of the Danish People's Party that we hold firmly to the citizens' money and that it should be spent as best we can. However, I do not think that the Minister really reflects very much on the jobs lost and the 44 employees to be sacked, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the professional expertise that Denmark is missing in relation to the very comprehensive security that is involved in drawing up Danish banknotes. I myself have been over to see how banknotes are becoming, what a huge technical process is in progress with countless security controls. In fact, we also know that over the past many decades people have come to Denmark to see the National Bank and see how one of the safest bankers in Denmark has been introduced around the world, which means that there is the least fraud in making copies. This is happening, among other things. Thanks to extremely many years of hard work and exploitation of the knowledge and technical skills that have been acquired. You lose that in exchange for this $20 million. kr. a year. You lose it in exchange for 0.4 percent. of the profits of the National Bank per year. years. We in the Danish People's Party think this is too expensive a price compared to what we miss. I am, of course, very sorry that the Minister does not share that view, but it does not alter the fundamental fact that it is our position in the Danish People's Party that Danish notes should of course be printed in Denmark. The knowledge and competence behind how they are printed in terms of security and all the other things must of course be in Danish hands, and it will not be after 2016 with the proposal that is currently in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151829	Now the questioner began his final round here by characterising me as someone who should come from the Liberal Alliance. This is a big misunderstanding, but I would like to try to explain to the questioner what is the big difference in Danish policy. On the one hand, we have populism. This means that at any time you take a position that you think can be beneficial to those you are talking to. On the other hand, we have responsibility, and as soon as we approach what is called responsibility, populism breaks down. This is basically the story of the Danish People's Party. It is that every time you have to try to take responsibility, every time you have to try properly to lay the backs and mandates for running a society and taking responsibility, it breaks over there, because of course you can't be Santa every day and only distribute good gifts. There is also a need to make some rational decisions between here and a rational decision to implement it if we can really save on the banknote press and coin production, which we can save everywhere else in society by making things more effective, so that we can put the money and resources elsewhere. It is very simple, it is linked to taking responsibility, and that is what is being done here in the National Bank. But at any rate it can be said that now the Danish People's Party has once again come a few hundred million kroner or the like in relation to the financial bill. But who has gradually and here the questioner can have the right resources to put together all the things that the Danish People's Party has been promising? Because nothing is going to fit in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408151956	The question is closed. Thank you to the authors and thank you to the Minister. The next question is Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen with questions to the same minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152008	Thank you, sir. President, and the question is: What does the Minister intend to do in view of TV 2 East on 10 March 2015 brought a measurement from YouGov, which among other things. shows 31 per cent. of the Danes in rural areas at least once a week experience unstable mobile signal to do so to ensure stable mobile and broadband coverage in the outermost regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152032	Good mobile and broadband coverage is very close to the heart of the government, and fortunately the figures show that things are moving forward. 83% of all homes and businesses have access to at least 100 mb download mid 2014, and in 2013 it was only 70 per cent. In 2012, the total outdoor speech coverage was 99.1% and was 99.2%. in 2013, and that is surely to feel the coverage of a phone with a good antenna quality. However, there are still companies and citizens who find that they cannot get the speed or coverage they want, and there are many reasons for this. For example: modern insulation of buildings can weaken the mobile signal, just as the quality of mobile phone antennas plays a role. Together with all parties in the Danish Parliament, we have adopted a number of initiatives to improve coverage, and let me give you some examples. First, the 700-MHz frequency band is released for mobile broadband by 2020. This gives companies better opportunities to roll out mobile broadband, among other things. in the outermost regions. In the upcoming frequency auctions from 2016 to 2019, the government will also make coverage requirements. Secondly, good practice is spread across municipalities. Part of the work will be to identify coherent local areas, e.g.: in the order of 30-80, which has poor coverage, so that an agreement can then be reached with the telecommunications company to cover the local households. Thirdly, we have launched Checkditnet.dk • I hope that the questioner has also seen where citizens and companies at address level can get an overview of the possible speeds at the address, and that also increases transparency. Last but not least, it will also be possible to obtain mortgage financing for investments in digital infrastructure, and this can also reduce financing costs. So we agree on the goal, and with the agreement on the digitalisation of Denmark we have taken some significant steps on the road to even better coverage compared to the whole of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152245	It is quite true that a number of initiatives have been taken, and the Left is also included in agreements on initiatives that go in exactly the right direction. The Left is always involved in this when it goes in the right direction. However, that is how it is, and that is what the Minister says, that there are areas where it is still not possible to get stable coverage, either in terms of mobile or broadband coverage. It is particularly in the outermost regions and islands, it is a problem, and for the people it concerns there, it does not help very much that it has improved for others, and that is why we have to go all the way, just as we have gone all the way in society's development with regard to landline telephones, electricity and postal services, etc., where all the households are covered. So in a modern society we also have to be fully covered with all households, and that is why I would like the Minister to answer the question: what further action does the government intend to take to reach the outermost regions and to our small and large islands? Because it's very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152352	Thank you. First of all, we have tried to outline a proposal which has also been taken out of a model that has been drawn up on one of the islands. Here there may be somewhere between 30 and 80 households where they say they have too bad a signal. If they then come together and together turn to the telecommunications company, and you might be able to see that through to the telecommunications company, then the telecommunications companies have given us an assurance that they will invest and then they will make sure that there is proper coverage. It is a tool that you can now take in your own hands and where you can go out and make a difference, and I think it is incredibly positive that it has come. We have then helped to ensure that when you have to raise a mobile mast or something else, you can also get mortgage financing, which makes it even better, because you can then write off over several years and at a cheaper rate of interest. But I just need to understand something. It was mentioned with landline telephones, electricity and everything else. Does the Left propose that there should be a universal service for mobile and broadband coverage throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152454	Now I think the Minister has misunderstood what this is about in a Question Time. Because it is about the members of the Folketing being able to ask questions to government ministers, but not about the government being able to ask questions to the members of the Folketing. That is how the system is built, but I am happy to take that discussion with the Minister another time outside this framework. That is absolutely right, including the matter of travelling masters and so on. But then there is a very, very long procedure, a very slow procedure to be followed in order to be allowed to raise a mast. So there is also a problem there, and perhaps that is not the Minister's area, that is probably more the area of the Minister for the Environment, but the government must also ensure that there is a much faster procedure in this area so that the masters can be raised. Is this something that the Minister wants to discuss with the Minister for the Environment, that is to say that in this area too, the processing time is shortened?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152547	I can reply in the affirmative to this last point, and it is also included in the agreement, and we have made a number of agreements on this in the past, so that we can get it through very quickly, what we call fast track, so that permits can be obtained very quickly. So we are incredibly positive about this, and we have also reached a broad compromise on this. The second question I just asked about, because one can be inspired when the questioner asks, and the questioner compared it by saying that just as we have all got electricity and we have all got a landline telephone, so it must also be the case that we are all entitled to mobile coverage and broadband, and there is a universal service. And then I just asked if it was the policy of the Left, because I have seen that the Left has also played out something about some grant pools and something else, and that is why it was incredibly interesting. Because we have just reached an agreement on the contrary and for 20 to 30 years have been conciliation partners from the opposite point of view, and that is why it was something of news that could be gained in this Chamber today, if it were now that the Left was in favour of that universal service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152638	Now this controversy between the parties in the Folketing isn't so interesting to me in this context. It is about the people who are in the situation that they have poor coverage in both the mobile and broadband sectors. I would like to return to the fact that the measurement from YouGov showed that an additional 33 per cent. do not feel safe because they do not know if they can make necessary calls to e.g. the guard doctor or other emergency calls. It is therefore Danes who follow very insecure daily life and everyday life because they have a justified suspicion about mobile coverage where they now live. They fear that unstable mobile coverage may have fatal consequences in an emergency and in the event of acute illness. Does the Minister not think that it is very important to take this seriously when people have that insecurity? And not only are they insecure, because it is actually the case that there are problems because Danes or others who live there can find themselves in a situation where they cannot get the help they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152740	I have never said that I will not take it seriously. We are doing so, and we have reached a large number of agreements, including with the Left Party, to ensure that mobile and broadband coverage is constantly improved and improved in this country. It is true that if you go back 10 or 15 years, there were no mobile phones to the extent that we are now seeing. That is why it is something that is being rolled out and it is being rolled out on market terms. We have agreed on this and we have also agreed to roll it out technology-neutrally so that we did not adopt a particular technology. What I was trying to say in my answer was that we are now up to a very high level of coverage. Then there are some places where it is difficult, and we agree on that. That is where we try, when we auction a certain frequency, to say: take account of the areas where there is the worst possible coverage. We did this last time, when the 207 postal numbers with the worst coverage had to be lifted. They are now. So we do it all the time and also in cooperation with the Left. So we take it seriously. It is not a question of us not having anything to do with it. We are trying to get it done as well as possible so that we reach the target by 2020 that the entire country should have 100 Mb download and 30 Mb upload. And we believe that we reach the target.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152858	The question is closed. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question is: 19 to the Minister for Trade and Development by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152911	Thank you for that, President. I read the question out loud: Will the Minister explain before the elections which development projects the government expects to save on in order to finance the high expected number of asylum seekers in 2015 and expectably also in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408152930	I would like to thank you for the question, which once again gives me the opportunity to stress that there can be no savings on development aid without any consequences. This will have consequences for many people in developing countries, which Denmark could otherwise help for a better life. But I must also admit that I am somewhat puzzled by the question. Maybe sir did. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen bundled this autumn and overlooked the fact that there were financial laws negotiations where the government, together with SF and Enhedslisten, adopted a finance agreement. Part of that agreement was precisely about providing funding for the extra costs that we expect to incur for refugee reception, which is why we temporarily reallocated part of development aid. At the same time, we increased the development aid framework so that 17.7 billion has been allocated in 2015. kr., which corresponds to 0.87%. of Denmark's gross national income. It is thus an increase in the aid framework by 1.4 billion. kr. Compared to 2014. It is undoubtedly in sharp contrast to the Left's desire to cut development aid, so Denmark is only 0.7 per cent. (i) a reduction in the Community's gross national product (GNP), i.e. a reduction in the Community's gross national product (GNP), i.e. a reduction in the Community's gross national product (GNP), i.e. a reduction in the Community's gross national product (GNP), i.e. a reduction in the Community's gross national product (GNP), i.e. a reduction in the Community's gross national product (GNP), i.e. a reduction in the Community's So, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen should perhaps start by asking himself the question: who is going to suffer when the Left wants to take away from the world's poorest? With such massive permanent savings, this will have serious consequences for the very poorest part of the world's population. And the Left still needs to give a precise answer as to who should stand for shots. If sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, with his question, would like to know more about the negative budgetary reserve on the budget law for 2015, we have also discussed this in detail once again in this Chamber, namely at the end of last year. However, if there is also a need for a little refreshment of the answer, I would, of course, repeat it, because the message was clear: we have to go up to September this year before we get an updated estimate of the consumption expected in 2015 for the reception of asylum seekers. Only then will we know the amount that is expected to be counted as development aid, and only then will we be able to determine how the negative budgetary reserve is to be implemented. When it comes to 2016, the government does not intend to deviate from normal practice. That is why we are already working to bring together a very good financial bill for 2016 as customary beliefs will be presented later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153225	Thank you to the Minister for the answer I do not know whether to call it an answer, but at least a full explanation of something. Speaking of which, I do not know whether the Minister was groping when I asked the question or just did not understand it, just as the Minister did not understand it when I asked it last. That's why I feel called to put it again. When the government negotiated the Finance Act with its parliamentary basis Enhedslisten, it was precisely agreed on these changes in the area of asylum in relation to development aid. As the Minister has just explained, ECU 0.5 billion has been set aside for this purpose. kr., which has not really been found yet, but 0.5 billion. kr. that you expect to need. So you don't have to be the great doctor in foreign policy to see that it's not going the right way in Syria and the surrounding region at the moment, so you have to assume that the government expects to spend the money that the government put aside or said it would find at some point it put a figure in the windowill. It is amazing that it is just September that we are going to pass, as long as it is by September that we are going to have a parliamentary election. Is this just about pushing the bill on to someone else because you don't expect to stay in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153353	No, it's not about pushing any bill on. If sir... Mr Ellemann-Jensen knew his Finance Act, he would also know that 2.6 billion has been committed in relation to the fourth quarter. kr., among others. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr., if applicable. But what is obviously difficult to explain to the author from the Left is that we do not know whether or not 500 million will be spent. kr. Does the Left rapporteur know that? Can the rapporteur of the Left guarantee that we will have so much refugee expenditure in Denmark in September that we will have to translate 500 million? kr. I do not think the rapporteur of the Left can answer that question. That statement is available and it did so last September. The figures come from the Ministry of Justice. Then we can see if it's 100 million. kr., whether it's 200 million. kr., or if it's 500 million. kr., we're gonna find them, and then we're gonna find them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153453	Now it is perhaps a bit premature for the Minister to ask me questions about these Wednesday sessions. But I can hope that at a later stage I will have the opportunity to reply to that. It is now the case that the government has said in its Finance Act: we expect to spend this amount, but the 500 million. kr. we will only find later. I would remind you of what one of the Minister's predecessors said, and it is, of course, a few ministers since then, because Christian Friis Bach is constantly rowing about the left's proposed savings on development aid: they owe it to them to answer whether it is schoolchildren in Afghanistan, poor women in Bangladesh or the support of democracy in Burma that must last. That is quite the question I am asking the Minister now. Who's gonna hold for it? Because you expect to spend 500 million. kr., so where are they coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153553	As I explained to the questioner once, we do not yet know how much money really needs to be spent on refugee reception in Denmark this year. We know that in September. We have set aside a reserve of 500 million. kr. that we have to find at that time. We make that out of the 2.6 billion. kr. will be available at that time and available. But what the Left has yet to answer is how to save 2.5 billion. kr. In addition, we must find another amount, possibly 2.5 billion. kr., for refugee reception in Denmark. That's 5 billion. kr. That is a somewhat larger amount than the 500 million. kr. we might have to find. Where will the Left find them? Will it affect the 20 million poor people in Bangladesh who live below the poverty line? Will our foreign aid for Myanmar be removed? Is it Nepal that has to hold? Should we close ten embassies, which will soon be the result of this exercise? I need answers from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153709	This is still a question time, not for the ministers. I know it may be tempting, but we are not there. When I count at home in my household budget on how much money I need for food next month, I don't know if I'm so hungry that I spend it or if I eat for less. But I have to find the money, and I know where to find it. It's because I have a certain responsibility with my economy at home. Then I'm budgeting some things. That's also what we do with the Finance Act in here at a somewhat higher level than my household budget, I'd like to admit that, but that's what we're doing in here. Then it is no use if I say at home: I expect I eat too much, but part of the money I will only find out when I find out if I am hungry. Is this a particularly responsible way for me to run my private economy or for the government to run the nation's economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153809	I'm not gonna interfere with how Mr. Knox... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen or other members of the Left Parliament run their private finances. I can say that, in the case of the government, we have an expectation of perhaps spending 500 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's 2.6 billion. kr. in the Finance Act for the fourth quarter, which means that there is ample opportunity to find the 500 million. kr. But it is clear that some activities will suffer. That's the way it is. This will affect some of the poorest in the world for which we cannot carry out activities. It is therefore also relevant that I put the question to the Left, to which the rapporteur has not yet replied: how on earth will the Left find 5 billion? kr. In the case of development aid, without having very, very serious consequences for a large number of countries and the very poorest? And not least for Denmark's embassy structure to the great detriment not only of Danes around the world, but also of course for those companies who need to be able to use our embassies' assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153930	The question is closed. Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. The next question is Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 20 to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408153946	Thank you. Has the Minister changed his position since, during Question Time on Wednesday 14 May 2014, he called driving in the emergency lane specially interesting compared to promoting mobility at E45 between Vejle and Aarhus?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154005	Thank you. No, I continue to believe that the possibility of including the emergency track as tramlines is a very interesting way of remedying congestion. After all, we already have good experiences from the trial on the Hillerød motorway, where drivers experience less congestion and come forward more quickly in the morning rush hour. But, of course, it requires thorough preparatory work before you can open up emergency lanes on motorways with great congestion. Among other things, you have to... examine the traffic conditions, what adaptation to the emergency lane will cost and, of course, not least the consequences for road safety. Last summer, I can inform the questioner about the questioner, but he probably knows that, because the Left is in the court settlement... we decided in the large green conciliation group to have a study of the possibilities of using the emergency tracks for tramlines on precisely these motorways with congestion. The survey shall include, inter alia: The entire stretch between Randers and Vejle, that is to say the motorway that is being asked here today. The study will be completed at the end of this year and will form part of the decision-making framework to be discussed in the conciliation circle. I look forward, of course, to the completion of the study and the subsequent political discussions on its results.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154128	Thank you for your answer. When did this investigation start?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154136	After all, the investigation has been decided in the 2014 traffic agreement concluded around summer. In the autumn it was then started, and it takes approx. One year to make it, that is, it is finished by the end of 2015. Let me just say that we probably do not know yet, but experience shows that will be part of the work. There may be bridges that need to be changed and expanded a little, and it can take up to 1-2 years, from deciding here and having a finished project, and to actually open up traffic in the emergency tracks. If it ends with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154215	Thank you. This will then mean, as I understand the Minister, that in the autumn a decision will be taken in the traffic conciliation circle as to whether to make a construction project so that the emergency tracks can be used on parts of the route between, for example. Vejle and for that matter, Aarhus, if that's what you're getting at. And then there's a construction period after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154238	Yes, I can confirm that. After all, we do not know the economy in it, and this will of course require a socio-economic approach to it. Because when we invest traffic, we look a lot at the economy. But in that we both know that all of Denmark knows that it is one of the most crowded highway sections, one can guess that the economy of the project is quite good. But we do not know the overall project yet, and therefore the government cannot take a position on it, except that we think it is extremely interesting and that a broad, broad majority in the Folketing agrees that we have set this preparatory work in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154315	Thank you. I do not know if the whole of Denmark knows that, but those who follow it are probably aware of it. The minister always takes very big words in his mouth, but that's fine too. I do not think that everyone in Denmark knows exactly all the traffic forecasts, but I think the Minister will say that this is a very acute problem. And he must be commended for coming up with something that makes sense for once. It's not every day it happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154341	That concludes questions. I'm sorry. The minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154349	It's so good when sir... Troels Lund Poulsen asks questions, and there was actually some praise. But it was wrapped so well and thoroughly into linguistic quirks, so I think I'll just sign for the tiny spruce of a possible recognition that was in the speech by Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154412	Thank you. That concludes the question. We shall now proceed to the next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic It's the same minister and the same questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154415	Here you go, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154422	Thank you. And the question is: What did the Minister mean when he promised during Question Time on Wednesday 14 May 2014 to proceed with the very great local desire to put the emergency tracks into use on parts of the E45?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154435	I thought that I would put it on the agenda in a forthcoming round of negotiations in the green circle. We've done that a long time ago, because it was a year ago. However, I can also say that this has happened, and with the traffic agreement of June 2014, as we have just mentioned before, 5 million were set aside. kr. for a study of the possibility of driving in emergency lanes on the most trouble-stricken motorway sections around the country, including: on the stretch of E45 that I mentioned earlier. And, in fact, 5 million have been set aside. kr. additional to examine the possibilities of driving in the emergency tracks on the Motorring 3 corridor, but this is another matter. The study, as I mentioned here, will be completed towards the end of this year, and it will give us a picture of what effects driving in the emergency tracks will have on traffic conditions and what an adaptation of the illuminated sections will cost. This is something which, of course, will be passed on to the conciliation board for discussion and, of course, also a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154537	Thank you. I would like to sign for the two answers that have now been given and not necessarily prolong the debate. In the Left, we are very pleased that there is now agreement to have this examined. It takes so little time, and we have to live with that. However, I understand the Minister in that way that in autumn 2015 one will be able to make a decision as to whether to allow driving in the emergency lanes with the financial costs that would then be associated with opening it up. We must then find the money for that if we can agree on it in the traffic conciliation circle. The Left is fully committed to that. There is a very, very urgent need to facilitate traffic on parts of the E45, so I would like to sign for that, and this time it is not even a small praise. It is actually an unreserved praise, because it seems that we can solve a very big problem for East Jutland here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154630	Well, that is precisely the purpose, that is, that we can try to agree on something. And there is no doubt that the E45 is one of the places that suffers from hardship, and it is fine if the large parties can agree to invest where the most needs are and where there is the most hardship, whether it is known as a country, or it is locally known or regionally known. It is not only those who are in the queue every day, but also the business community and the municipalities and the settlement opportunities and the development opportunities that meet the stop-block where there is congestion. And this is one of the places in Denmark where there is the most tribulation. There are also other places that have similar feelings, but it is clearly one of the greatest examples. That is to say, if we can agree on the big parties between them, then something really good can be done for society, and that is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154715	I have nothing further, but I would just like to say thank you for a very fine reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154720	Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. The question is closed. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 22 to the same minister by Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154735	Thank you for that, and my question is this: what is the Minister's position with regard to Randers Municipality's wish for an east bridge over Randers Fjord?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154742	Thank you for the question. I am well aware of the project, which has been on the drawing board in something I think it has been a long time. I often visit Randers myself and my family come from Randers and I know very well about the problem of congestion in the city around the intersection at Randers Fjord. It is clear that the traffic figures also show an interesting project, and there is no doubt that it will be able to alleviate the increasing congestion that Rander's city is living with. Because the question is not whether it is a good project or not, because it is. The question is how the project is being financed, and that is probably why the questioner has raised it here. As the questioner knows, this is a municipal project. It must therefore be financed by the Municipality of Randers as a starting point. This is the focal point of the project now, and it has been so far. That is also the starting point for my predecessors both in this government, but also before the change of government at the last election. In other words, the municipality of Randers is, by its very nature, entitled to carry out the project. I understand that the Vejdirektoratet has recently assisted the municipality with help for various analyses, and I think that is only positive and good. I would also like to say that, if there is any possibility of allocating funds, I will be open to the fact that we in the conciliation board require us to agree to discuss the establishment of a co-financing pool for local and regional projects. We have had that in the past, actually with great success; it has, among other things, been. helped finance a bridge across the river at Odense, the one called Odin's Bridge, which recently opened. Because it was kind of part-financed by this pool. That pool has now been exhausted, but it is not the last time that traffic has been reconciled, and I would say that next time I will be open to allocating funds to such a pool. And there it will be the case that you will have to find a form that may be relevant to projects such as that in Randers, which has been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408154940	Thank you. I know, of course, that the Minister is familiar with Randers and therefore also knows about the problem, so I will not spend much time on it. I will try to dig a little deeper into what the Minister has said, because I think it sounds really, really interesting. The first is that which the Minister raises in relation to the Road Directorate's analyses: is there a timetable for these different analyses? I understand that this is mainly about the cheapening of access routes to and from such a bridge, so is there a timetable for, an estimate, for when the work is finished? The second is that which the Minister also raises and which, of course, is the most interesting thing, namely that with some form of state cofinancing. For there I fully agree with the Minister that if you can make some kind of cofinancing, this project has reached much, much longer than it is to be realized. Because I think it would be a really big mouth for Randers Municipality if they were to take care of it alone. So can we hear a little more about such cofinancing? Will it only be the routes of connection that the Minister is thinking about, or will it be the whole project that will then be put into some form of co-financing? But all in all, I think it was actually a positive statement that at least one would like to be an active player in getting this project going and, as I understand it, it is just a question of how much one can then become a player. And that's why I'm interested in asking these follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155105	After all, we are already in the process of being a co-player in relation to the initial investigations carried out by the Road Directorate. You've looked into it, for example. on a local basis, whether it is possible to make some user payment of it, and it has to be said that the results of the studies have been reasonably negative; it will simply take too many years to get it home, or it will require too much of a deposit. So that's where you kind of got to the end of the road. I do not have any time here for the Road Directorate's current help with an analysis to clarify whether the project can be made cheaper than the original estimate, but I would very much like to send it over in writing. When asked, my written answer to this will be delivered as soon as possible so that we can get it updated. So in general terms I would say that since there is no money on the table now, I cannot really say anything other than that I thought it was sensible and perhaps also a success with the previous pool, and I think that one should try to repeat that success. But that depends on what can come up with, how big the pot is and how much we generally have on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155203	Thank you. Nor did I expect the Minister to look up the Road Directorate's calendar in this way. I had only hoped that it might be in the papers, but I am asking a written question about it and we will have an answer to it. Thank you. Compared to the pool thing, I'd say I think it sounds really, really exciting. Then we just have to hope that it can then be realized after a choice at some point, because it is certainly useful that it comes here and now. Whether this can be done with some kind of user payment I think you should not be open, but just to clarify it one hundred percent • and I think I know the answer • so we are reassured: Does that mean that if the municipality thinks that a user payment could be an interesting model, then the minister will support that you can make user payments here, for example. as in Frederikssund?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155247	The analysis shows that there are opportunities for this. But this cannot be done without a deposit, and the deposit is at least 290 million. kr. and mostly 820 million. kr., if it is to balance. So that means that an answer to that question will require that you also find funding for it, and that is a level that is so high for a municipality even of Randers size that I think you have to find out how to finance it. Frederikssund is a bit of an attempt for us, and I think it is sensible to try to make a partial user fee there, and it will then be a partial user fee that will be the case here. However, how residual funding is to take place requires that we have a pool, and we do not yet have that. So all I can say is that I am positive about repeating the success of that pool, because it means one thing, namely that we get a channel down to investing where it gives the most traffic effect, and that is one of the things that we have to make extraordinary efforts with when the funds are a little scarce throughout Denmark; so find out how to use them as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155352	Thank you. I do not think I heard a very clear answer in relation to the fact that Randers Municipality now had some models made, for example. with a pension fund. You can imagine many different models, some form of state cofinancing, etc. In relation to the theoretical discussion, because right now it's theory, when you don't have the money in place, will you from the government be open to making a user fee to get it cofinanced?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155419	I think it has to be said that this will probably require us to have a little more concrete models. In other words, we are currently examining with the help of the Vejdirektoratet whether the project can be cost-effective in various ways and how it can be financed. So I think it is equally legitimate to demand a clear answer from me, because it binds me to what I might say. So I would like to say that when the Road Directorate is involved in this, it is because it is an interesting project, and it is also interesting to find a way to finance this, which will not be a stupid penalty and an annoyance, but something that is successful for Randers' inhabitants. And if you can get private funds, which are currently invested abroad, to be invested in Denmark, I just think it is extra positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155501	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 23, is to the Minister for the Environment by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155514	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's justification for eliminating both jobs and growth opportunities in agriculture in order to achieve increased biodiversity in relation to L 94 when it could have been avoided by instead laying out more untouched forests?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155532	Well, I really think it is a pity that the Left is again making the claim that the bill now adopted here in the Danish Parliament, L 94, should lead to the very great loss of jobs and limited opportunities for growth in agriculture, and I have therefore also emphasized this throughout the discussion of the bill: the Government stresses that there must be room in Denmark for both a rich and diverse nature which has a good place, while also having an agricultural industry in growth and development. And I have openly stated throughout the legislative procedure here in the Folketing that there are certain economic consequences of the proposal. But it is not at all to the extent that it is put forward by the Left. For approx. 81% of the farms affected by the ban on fertilising and spraying on section 3 areas, the operating losses will be up to DKK 7,500. a year. And those farms which may be severely affected will thus be able to obtain a derogation or compensation. We've been through all this in dealing with that bill. In addition, I simply do not agree with what the Left puts forward and has as a premise for this question, namely that it should be possible to achieve the same biodiversity by saying that then we will fail to implement this ban on spraying and fertilization on section 3 areas, and we will instead lay down something more untouched forest. It is like the premise of this question and, moreover, I understand, for a motion for a resolution tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left. Because in both the forests and in section 3 areas there is significant biodiversity that we must protect, but these are completely different habitat types and different species that cannot be compared, and therefore one effort cannot replace the other. Therefore, it has been important for the government that we both make an effort for nature in the forests, while also making an effort for the vulnerable § 3 protected nature out in the open country. Moreover, it is fully in line with the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which has just pointed to the need for us to have efforts both in the forests and in the nature of the open country. Then we must stop the loss of biodiversity, so we must make an effort both in the light-open natural areas and in the forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155756	Thank you. After all, the Left agrees that it is important to think about biodiversity as well. However, as we stress in our resolution, things can be done in other ways. I understand from the Minister and it has also been said in the past by the Minister that the minister wants everything at once. But then I just do not think there is any harmony in the fact that you stand and say that you also want agriculture and that you also want to increase growth and more jobs. Because you can't both blow and have flour in your mouth. In fact, I would like to ask whether the Minister could not have chosen, for example, as well. to lay out more untouched forest and could actually have achieved more for the money by choosing the solution rather than the one chosen through L 94.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408155852	But again Mrs Anni Matthiesen puts a wrong premise into her question, namely that it should be the same biodiversity that we have in the forests as we have in the light-open natural areas. And I would really like to hear whether the Left recognises that there are two different habitat types with two different types of biodiversity, one can say that we need to protect in different ways. For I am not hiding that the purpose of our proposal on § 3 areas has been to ensure the biodiversity of our protected natural areas in the light-open nature. And in the effort we set in motion in Nature Plan Denmark in relation to forests, we aim to identify the areas in the forests where there are the greatest natural values, and in this way, just as the Left calls for us to be targeted where we get the most money, so to speak. Because, on the other hand, I could ask you about this: is it really the most cost-effective method? I'm on my way to analyze whether or not we're gonna lay out more untouched woods. We also set up in Nature Plan Denmark for more untouched forests, but I think it is important that we identify the places in our forests where we have the greatest natural values and target the effort accordingly. But we can't replace the forest and the government won't do the work in our light-open nature with an effort in the forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160025	The questioner for another question before we take the co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160028	Thank you. The World Wildlife Fund estimates that if you take 25,000 hectares from, for example, state forests to untouched forests, it will produce positive effects of up to 65 per cent. for the redlisted species in Denmark. I think that could in some way be done for less money than what L 94 costs, and that would perhaps also be the best way for the government to start in order to achieve better biodiversity. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether this is something that the Minister has actually examined before choosing to put forward draft law L 94. In other words, has one really been inside to see how far one could get for the same money or, for that matter, even for less money, if one had chosen to start with the state forests and put some of them into untouched forests?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160125	Well, we have certainly been far around in the preparations for Nature Plan Denmark, and in Nature Plan Denmark there is also a quite extensive effort for our forests and, of course, the state forests. Over 50 million has been allocated. kr. in Nature Plan Denmark to our forests and to improve biodiversity in our forests. I just have to arrest again the premise on which the questioner bases the question, namely that we should be able to replace the effort that is being made for our species in the light-open nature, because some species are quite different from those in our forests. So I just have to ask again that we try to distinguish between the different types of biodiversity that are in our forests and in our light-open nature. I can at least say for the government's part that we are preoccupied with the fact that we are getting an effort that ensures both our species on these protected natural areas, the § 3 areas, and in our forests. Therefore, efforts are made for both in Nature Plan Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160230	Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160235	Thank you. I would actually like to follow up on what my colleague concluded with, namely that the World Fund for Nature estimates that 65%. of the red-listed species in Denmark can thus get better conditions by extracting 25,000 hectares of forest. In this way, we could avoid the huge socio-economic burden that the government has chosen to pass on to the agricultural industry and thus to the up to 170,000 jobs that lie in the Danish food sector, because one goes in and takes away the opportunities to grow and fertilise on the § 3 areas in the future. That is why I just want to hear the Minister, because the Minister is obviously very concerned about the need for action both in the forests and in agriculture: does the Minister not also care about what this costs us socially and what it costs professionally for our food industry, in view of the fact that we are talking about 170,000 Danish jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160338	After all, we have been through a number of consultations in connection with Parliament's consideration of the bill which has now been adopted here in the Danish Parliament. But we can try to take it again. After all, in connection with the draft law, we presented clear and clear calculations of the economic cost of this proposal. This is clear from the draft law, and I have explained in several consultations what the economic consequences are. I would just like to say that I think it goes a long way towards saying that the 170,000 jobs in the food industry should be put at risk with the proposal to stop spraying and fertilizing on section 3 areas. I really think it's fucked up. In other words, the government has taken a series of measures to improve the conditions of growth for our agricultural industry and for our food industry. Last year we did it together with the GPS for food, and the government is rolling out those initiatives. The government is concerned about finding a balance between the fact that, on the one hand, we have a good framework for our profession and, on the other hand, we are also doing something for our nature. And I believe that we have found the right balance and that I have quite openly and frankly put forward what the socio-economic and economic consequences will be of this proposal. But I think we have found a good balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160459	The questioner with the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160500	Yeah, at a value of 1.8 billion. kr. And I can understand that the Minister for the Environment does not think that is a size one should relate to at all. I think it's quite arrogant to use the minister's own expression that the minister just wants to maintain that it doesn't matter how many burdens you throw on the Danish food industry because at the same time you have moved something. Yes, it is true that we have made a growth package together, where we have fortunately made some reliefs. The Left would have liked us to have made considerably more reliefs, and that is also why we have presented a 16-point plan that could secure 25 000 additional jobs in the food industry over the next five years. But the Minister does not seem to care whether it is the last straw or the first straw that breaks the camel's back, because that is what the government is doing with § 3 areas and with all the initiatives in the fields of the Minister of Food: you put so many straws on top of the camel's back that it finally breaks together so that we have no Danish food industry. And 1.8 billion. kr. is much money burdened to deprive a profession of the opportunity to earn by cultivating on the § 3 areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160606	We have discussed both the 1.8 billion. kr., which is, of course, agriculture's own estimate of the loss of value in relation to this proposal for § 3. I have explained at the consultations that we have thus arrived at a different figure for the loss of value, which is less than what agriculture is travelling with, and that, moreover, in relation to the operating losses that we can calculate for this proposal, we will have come to the conclusion that it is approximately in the region of 47 million. kr. As I said at the outset, it will be 81%. of these holdings, which are affected by the § 3 ban, concern a loss of up to DKK 7,500. a year. We consider that to be limited costs. I admit that agriculture is facing some major challenges, among others. in view of the international situation, and the government has taken many initiatives to remedy the difficult situation in which agriculture is in. That is why I would like to appeal once again to ensure that no scare pictures are drawn up, what I think Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby is doing here and which we also witnessed in a consultation this morning in the Committee on the Environment. I believe that the Left is currently helping to create unjustified insecurity in Danish agriculture. That is not what we need at the moment, and I think we should stick to the factual arguments. But see if we can't keep it on a professional and factual level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160735	Then it's the main questioner with a question in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160740	Thank you. So I'm not gonna agree with the Minister that we're doing scaremongering. We may actually be just worried, and I really think the Minister would have dressed that too. It is one thing after another that the government draws rather than burdening agriculture, and that is really what worries us. That is why we are actually asking here today: could the Minister not have just as well chosen, for that matter, to take out some forest and perhaps even achieved more for less money by planting to untouched forests? Then I know the Minister says no to it, because the Minister wants it all; she wants biodiversity both here and there and everywhere. But in the economic situation in which agriculture is at present, would it not have been more obvious, does the Minister think, perhaps, to start by planting untouched forests?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160833	But I can really repeat myself, because that is what the questioner is doing, so I will answer the same question. You cannot put untouched forests in place of the efforts we are making in relation to the light-open nature, because they are quite different species that live in our light-open nature and that need protection there than those that live in our forests. In connection with Nature Plan Denmark, we have also done a thorough preparatory work to ensure that we put our efforts in the forests most cost-effectively where it will give us the most biodiversity for the money. Therefore, we are in the process of identifying where in our forests we have the most valuable natural areas, hotspots, so that we can target our efforts where we get the most biodiversity for the money. So I actually believe that we are doing exactly what is being called for here, namely a targeted effort where we get the most money in our forests. At the same time, however, we must also do something to protect the vulnerable species living on our § 3 areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160932	That was the end of this question. We are going to Question 24, which is to the Minister of Taxation, and that is asked by Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160946	Thank you. And the question is: will the Minister continue to exempt electric and hydrogen vehicles from registration, weight and ownership fees after 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408160959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161001	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that the government would very much like to see electric cars becoming more common than they are today, thus helping to reduce our energy consumption and emit fewer greenhouse gases. That is why we need to find a solution for the electric and hydrogen vehicles after the tax exemption expires here at the end of 2015. We are working to find a solution that ensures the right framework conditions for electric cars. I would very much like a long-term solution to be found for electric cars, so that, among other things, there is. will create the security of the tax rules that the industry is asking for. Of course, funding must be found for a solution, because we do not take action without paying the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161046	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161047	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was not really so firm in the light of the precise wording of the question, namely whether the Minister will continue the tax exemption. After all, there is a reason why I am asking, because it has been the announcement so far from the government, and it is also reported that the government has tried to make initiatives. But nothing has really been brought forward yet, and that is why it is important whether the Minister will say when the government intends to do something. I think that only today I have been approached by a citizen who asks what happens after New Year. For the delivery time of the car he is looking at is longer than the current tax exemption runs. It is therefore quite important that the Minister should report a little more forcefully whether this is something the Minister intends to take care of now or whether it is something that is only sometime in the autumn. Because that will, of course, provide the necessary clarity. It will of course also be important when you look back at the fact that after we made the tax agreement in 2012, when we exempted electric and hydrogen vehicles from tax until the end of this year, the Socialists announced in September that you wanted more electric cars in Denmark and you had a lot of plans and things like that. And then it's just a little obvious that nothing has happened since. That is why I hope that the Minister can be a little more firm about when the Minister intends to do something, and it is also in relation to the announcement that we want to continue. That is also what the Minister is saying to some extent. The Minister will then have to give funding for this, otherwise it will be easy to stand and argue for it to continue. But if you don't catch the bill, it's just waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161241	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161244	Between the lines of what the questioner is talking about, I also sense a little interest, which could perhaps be interpreted there, that there is a basis for making such agreements in the form of broad political agreements. And, of course, I think that makes every possible sense. Especially because I am very concerned that we are finding solutions which are not just for one year to come, but which go further in time. The questioner asks whether this is an extension of the tax exemption. It is, of course, one of the models that is in play and which may be in combination with a gradual phasing-in into the general tax system • a combination of the two or one or the other. But, as I said, we have not come to the end of it and cannot yet come up with a final proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161339	The interesting thing about what the Minister says is that if you continue with a tax exemption, there is a small revenue of 400 million. kr. Next year, 500 million. kr. in 2017 and 700 million; kr. in 2018. After all, this is quite a bill, and if the Minister now speaks as he does, then I suppose the Minister must also have thought about how that bill should be picked up. I hope the Minister will be able to cover that up. What is it that the government is planning to use as funding for a continued tax exemption or relief, to which I understand the Minister is now turning the level of ambition down?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161430	We have not finished our reflections in this context, and this is, of course, linked to the fact that it also depends on which solution one chooses. As the questioner himself has pointed out, a tax exemption over several years will in itself mean an ever-increasing need for financing, given that it must be assumed that, if necessary, there will be an increasing volume of sales of electric cars. That is why, of course, it will be entirely related to which solution is chosen and how long such a solution will be applied. Of course, I am also listening to what is said in the industry, including the desire to have a solution that goes further into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161515	I am pleased that the Minister can confirm that this is a fairly large amount. It is a bill that is waiting, and then we will see if it is something the government intends to do about in the foreseeable future or whether it is just something that should lie. I know it can be a little difficult to find the press release that Social Democracy sent back in October 2012 because it has been removed from the party's website. Fortunately, there are party associations in the party that still have it on their website, but you cannot find it on the Social Democratic website. So the plans that were left in October 2012 for more electric cars have not been responded at all by the Social Democrats. The bill is still waiting, and then we'll see who gets the pleasure of picking it up. But then it's settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161611	I have to say first of all that more electric cars are actually being sold in Denmark, so we can all be pleased about that. I also welcome the fact that the Left is so concerned about a solution as it is. For my assumption is, of course, that we should like to find solutions in this area that goes far into the future. I think that is always best done if it is something that is done in the form of broad political agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161644	The questioner for the last question in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161647	But so, it is a confirmation that there is an unpaid bill; there are now a number. It may be that the Minister is in the process of turning the bill down slightly. At least the level of ambition is somewhat different from what we have heard in the past about full tax exemption. The minister says it can be different models, and that is quite an interesting announcement. But whatever model you choose, there's a bill to pick up. I am, of course, curious whether this is something the government intends to present before we come to a parliamentary election. It would be convenient for the government to put this in the pile with other bills. But now it is quite clear that there is a bill that is a financing requirement, and so far the government has no solutions to how to find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161744	If I have answered the question a few times, as I have done, it is of course also because I think it would have been obvious if the Left had indicated that this is something we are also interested in finding a solution to. At least I can't hear a confirmation of that, and we'll have to let the wind blow. However, I can at least confirm that we will have to come up with a solution which clearly indicates what the prospects will be after the current system is due to expire at the turn of the year. You can be sure of that and, of course, it will also be fully funded. There is no doubt about that either. What may, of course, be the question is how broad a political agreement we can make on this matter if necessary. But that's what time has to show.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161832	Then we move on to the next point, which is Question 25. It's for the treasure minister of Torsten Schack Pedersen. I would like to point out to both gentlemen that 30 seconds is 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161846	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161849	The next question is: will the Minister present before the elections an alternative financing plan for the Train Fund DK, given that there is a lower revenue from the reorganization of North Sea taxation than provided for in the agreement on the Train Fund DK because of a lower oil price?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161906	Please send a reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161908	No, the Train Fund DK is financed within the medium-term political agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408161917	That was a clear answer. So there will be no more, the government has spent the money, and that means that the deviation made by the government itself in its recent economic statement, which has written down the North Sea revenue by 10.5 billion. kr., so don't really do anything. I think it is a liberatingly honest announcement that the precautionary principle of which the government has otherwise prided itself has died along with so many other promises and principles under this government. The money is spent in vain and it is hoped that things will improve, but there is therefore no alternative funding plan from the government. Again, that means that there will be a huge bill in the future. Even now, the assessments are, of course, that it is a massive hole that has been struck and there is certainly no prospect that it will be smaller. We have had the discussion in the past, we have among other things. also had it with the Minister for Economic Affairs, where he said here in Parliament in January that the payments between the realised and the assumed will be handled in the context of the ongoing organisation of financial policy. But what is it like? How do you want to do that? Where is it you want to find the money? We understand that now the money is not coming in. You then use the ones you intended to use, and then you will deal with it in the field of fiscal policy. So it is relatively simple to ask: is it money for public spending that cannot go to it? Is it other public investment that cannot be realised? Or is it the tax minister who has to open the drawer with exciting proposals for new taxes to finance it? Or should we just wait till time runs out? We must then hope that the government will be able to present a bill of finance before elections are held. Otherwise, there is just one big question: where does the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162120	When I reply very briefly that we find funding within the medium-term fiscal framework, it is a complete repeat of the over an hour and a half consultation we had yesterday, where both the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and I took part. As has been said and written many times, and as I repeat, it is clear from the political agreement reached at the time with the Togfonden DK that 28.5 billion has been set aside. kr. And that is the case, whether the revenue from the agreement on the harmonisation of taxation in the North Sea would prove to be lower or higher than expected. If taxation from the North Sea differs from that assumed, it will be done within the ongoing organisation of financial policy. It is written in the agreement and it does not change that you keep asking the same question over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162212	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162215	But I think the answer is so thin. That is not enough, and that is why we continue to call for clear answers. I think, frankly, that the Minister would find a little bit critical if I, as the Left's tax rapporteur, made expensive proposals and then said: well, it is financed within the medium-term projections; then that funding is solved. Does the Minister not consider this to be rather diffuse funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162250	We are acting as a government in the same way as previous governments, and if the questioner looks at the convergence programme just presented, which was published on 27 March, he will see that it appears that there are new conditions for oil prices. It also emerges from the convergence programme that the planned fiscal policy is sustainable and that there is structural balance by 2020, in other words, that financial policy is constantly organised in such a way as to find solutions and thus to comply with all the agreements entered into as a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162327	The questioner to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162329	I think it is obvious to everyone that the conditions for the expected revenue have gone significantly. The government itself must make a write-down in its financial statement of 10.5 billion. kr. just for revenue for 2 years • 10.5 billion less kroner comes in from the North Sea in just 2 years. And then the Minister does not think that this gives rise to any reflection. It would be liberating if we could get an answer as to how much, with the new assumptions put in by the government, goes into the tax increase that was adopted with L 79 back in 2012-13. That would be liberating. Will the Minister of Taxation inform the Danish Parliament of the state of the revenue generated by the bill, with the new conditions which the government itself has laid down in its financial statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162420	After all, we almost miss the questioner being involved in the consultation which took place yesterday, where this was also a question that was answered over and over again. The questioner has also asked the same question several times, and I think that both in the past and now I have answered the questions about the Train Fund DK adequately. I'll remind you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has also complained to the Bureau of the Danish Parliament, and it happened, as one would expect, that the complaint in plain Danish was poured down the board, and I therefore urge that the questioners in general be informed in my previous answers. It is not the case that the answer changes just because you ask the question again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162457	That was the end of Question Time. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162510	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408162528	Thank you. We now have to deal with the Minister for Culture's bill that the so-called DAMD data should be processed. the very sensitive data that have been collected illegally from the various stocks for a number of years and have ended up in this large database, which is located in South Jutland, must be stored in the National Archives, so that in many years' time they will be available for research purposes. Let's jump to the conclusion right away: it's left vertically opposite. We have the clear position that when it comes to such sensitive health information, which has not least been collected illegally for a number of years, citizens are, of course, entitled to know with certainty that we will have them deleted immediately. There is no point in keeping them with all sorts of punks about the fact that this is just a long way in the future and that it is a matter of research and so on. etc. A specific public demand has been made for this. This information is so personal, and there is never anything that has been promised that it should be used for some kind of research purpose in some huge database. We're even in the absurd situation that the Southern Denmark Region, which has been responsible for the database, is actually trying to erase these data. But they've gotten no to that. The Minister for Culture has gone in and said: 'We do not care about the citizens' welfare, so these data must be preserved for posterity'. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution from the Minister for Culture and the Government, which we are sorry cannot be dealt with today, but which will then be dealt with next week, as I remember. There we go in and make a clear suggestion that these data should be erased. It is therefore very, very gratifying that a few hours ago we got the good news that Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party are supporting the blue block in that these data should be deleted. This means that we are in the even more absurd situation, that the only ones who do not seem right now to support a desire for the data to be deleted are the two governing parties, which are therefore a very small minority in this thing. I am, of course, very, very excited about what the Minister of Culture will say about this. Because as I see it, there are two options. One possibility is that the Minister for Culture goes up and says: Okay, I have to admit that there is now a large majority in the Danish Parliament who think that this sensitive data should be deleted. Of course, I respect this and ensure that it is done as soon as possible so that the citizens who are currently nervous can be satisfied. Or there is the other possibility that if the Minister is so stubborn we have tried before that the Minister has been in the minority and has fought against yes, then the motion for a resolution by the Blue Block will also be put to the vote, and then we will have to vote through it. I actually think it's crazy that we're now in this situation as we are. I do not understand at all why the Minister for Culture has not chosen to involve the Danish Parliament until this draft law is put forward head-on. As far as I am concerned, and as far as the Left is concerned, we have not been contacted at a single time by the government on this matter. And then all of a sudden we see this bill. That is why we have now come to the situation where, as I said, the government has not only a majority against it, but actually a really, really large majority against it. I do not think it is pretty, because the only thing that has come out of it is that there are very, very many people who have become nervous. There are really, very many people who right now do not know whether their sensitive data is going to be stored or not saved for posterity. I think the Minister for Culture should come up here, acknowledge reality and say: let us now reassure all the many people that these data are being erased. I have to admit, I was wrong. There is now a majority, and I respect that 100%. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163005	Thank you. I don't see anyone for short remarks. That's what I had to check out. So we move on in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163020	Thank you. It is a very special case that forms the basis for this amendment of the Archive Act that we are dealing with here today. Fortunately, we have not had a situation in the past where a public administration has illegally collected data. I must also say that I have received a great many inquiries from citizens who are insecure about this matter, and I would like to acknowledge that citizens are addressing politicians and expressing their opinions. I have great respect for this, and it is important that we in Denmark not only have democracy as a form of government, but also as a way of life. That is clear from this case. I would say, then, that when personal information and data are collected and stored, it must, of course, be done according to clearly defined rules. It is therefore regrettable that the Region of Southern Denmark has collected data for the DAMD database illegally. Patients' health information is extremely sensitive and therefore, of course, they must also be treated with care. Because it is crucial that we in Denmark are safe to leave our personal information to public authorities. This applies to everything from health information to tax information etc. As Danes, we must of course be able to trust the system. However, even if errors have been made in the collection process and this is the case, this does not mean that the information does not still have value for posterity and future generations. It is necessary that the errors made by the authorities should also be documented so that in future we will be able to learn from the mistakes that are unfortunately being made. That is why we must also ensure that information that has not been legally collected is not equated with the other information that the National Archives retains, and we are trying to deal with this bill. In future, it must be possible to distinguish between illegal and legally collected health material once it has been submitted to the National Archives. That is why the draft law also contains a provision that ensures special data protection for illegally collected information. Thus, the information will be inaccessible for 120 years, after which it will only be available for specific purposes for the next 110 years. I believe that with this solution we ensure that information of particular value to society is not discarded, but that at the same time we take into account the people whose personal information is to be found in this data. It's a good, fair balance in a difficult situation. That is why the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163314	Thank you. There are, for the time being, five inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163323	Thank you. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is clear today that there is a large majority against Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the Government's desire to store this data with all force and force. I just have the very, very brief question: does it make no impression at all when there are so many citizens making representations to all of us including, I assume, the Socialist rapporteur, that this is so sensitive data that they want people to delete; they do not want them to be saved for posterity? And does it not also make an impression when even the Southern Denmark Region, which has been responsible for the database, actually wanted to delete them when they found out? Doesn't that make an impression at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163409	Yes, it certainly makes an impression, and that is why I am also referring to the correspondence that I have had with a great many citizens who have addressed me in this matter. It also makes an impression that about 17,000 people have actually asked for their data to be deleted. However, we are in a very difficult situation and, as I assess it, we cannot but put forward the legislative proposal as it stands here. If the Minister goes against the Archive Act, the Minister will commit a violation of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163446	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163447	Well, now this is the Danish Parliament, and the Danish Parliament can change the laws. That is also why, on the Blue Block side, we are going to table a motion for a resolution in which we clearly go in and say that these data must be deleted. It can of course be adopted, just as the government, if they really wanted to think about the well-being of these citizens, could have put forward another bill which would mean that the data would have to be deleted. But what has been done? We have completely opposed everyone's wishes, at least the citizens who have been recorded in all these data said that they should be saved. And now it is that this bill will be voted through by force and force. You could if you wanted to. You just don't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163534-2	However, as I have explained, it is my clear opinion that the Minister would commit a violation of law if the Minister went against the Archive Act. In other words, there are two considerations which the Minister must take into account in accordance with the Archive Act, and these are the conservation considerations, and these are the economic considerations, i.e. an economic framework laid down by the Finance Act. And the conservation considerations are clearly defined in relation to the competence of the State Archives, and it has been estimated in the State Archives that this is worthy of preservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163612	The next question is Mr. Lars Kofod, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163614	I don't know Kofod, but I speak on his behalf. President (Karen J. Klint) I have been given a mandate to do so. I would like to ask a few questions about posterity. Sir. Troels Ravn says that there is a consideration for posterity and that one day or another, when the deadline has expired, you may be allowed to go in and see information about the people concerned. What does Mr. Troels Ravn weighs most heavily: is the most important consideration of the integrity of citizens in the sense that citizens can feel secure by giving information to their doctor without risking being passed on and stored somewhere? Or is it the consideration that sometime in the future you can go in and see confidential information about the people in question? These are the two considerations which must be weighed against one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163713	Well, the bill guarantees that these data can't be misused. And that is very, very important, because that is the concern that the questioner also raises. This proposal should be encouraged, because here there is a great deal of important data of great medical and research value. And it is the Archives of the State that have considered that on a historical and research basis these data must be preserved. That is why the Minister cannot act otherwise in this matter than the Minister is now doing with the submission of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163800	Sir. Lars Barfoed for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163803	Of course, the Minister can act differently. Because if it is finally the case that deleting the data would be contrary to the Archive Act, then you can just change the law, as we have proposed. Okay, that's it. It's so easy. But I just have to understand, sir. Troels Ravn so that Mr. Troels Ravn believes that the consideration of the Rigsar's and others' assessment that it will be important in the future to be able to go in and see concrete information about specific people in this archive weighs more heavily than the consideration that we politicians must ensure that citizens have the security that when they provide information to their doctor, they will not be passed on somewhere where they should not have been sent and hidden there. That's how you have to understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163851	As I made clear in my rapporteur's speech, security is important and it is a very, very unfortunate matter that we have here. Fortunately, there are no similar cases, nor historical ones, and it is to be hoped that this will not happen again. We are in a jam, and that is why, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that the legislative proposal that is being presented here is a solution to this problem with a good balance. We are therefore talking about a period of protection which will expire in 120/230 years. And I also believe that it is quite essential in this case that no one is in danger of making this data publicly available during a protection period of 120/230 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163953	The next question is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408163955	Thank you. Now this is all about principles, more than it is about years. It's about whether you as a citizen can trust the authorities. It's about whether as a patient you can trust that what you tell your doctor is covered by the doctor's confidentiality. So what we are talking about today is basic trust. It can be said that if there was a legal basis for maintaining this, there was no reason why we were discussing the Archive Act today. So it is because the Minister and the government, and thus Mr. Troels Ravn's own party believes that there is a lack of clarity. That's why we're discussing the law today. That is why it is nonsense and nonsense that one cannot also change the law or clarify in the law that one can delete illegally collected data and then at the same time document the part that is about regulatory abuse. That's why I just want to hear Mr. Troels Ravn, if it is not true that you could erase the patient database and people's information, but at the same time save for the sake of history and the future the part about the debate on the illegally collected, the point about the evidence that there has been an attack. And thus also preserve what is really interesting from a historical point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164115	Well, it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark are safe to leave our personal information to public authorities. And as I said, from health information to tax information. As Danes, we must of course have confidence in the system. In this case there has already been a transfer of material from the Region of Southern Denmark to the National Archives. So the National Archives has made a research and historical assessment that this material should be archived. And there we are again at the hops in this bill, namely that the Minister can't do anything else because otherwise the Minister would commit criminal offences rather than trying to find a balance and a solution to this problem. And I think the Minister is doing that very well with the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164209	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164210	Of course, the Minister and the Folketing can change legislation. We do that on a daily basis in this room, too, in some areas. Of course you can change a law so that the minister doesn't break the law. It is clear, of course, that this is not about breaking the law; it is about ensuring that there is also a legal basis for deleting something that has been illegally collected. Does this mean, as the Minister for Culture has done in the past, that it will enable history and, for posterity, the fact that authorities have sometimes committed acts of violence against citizens? No, it doesn't mean that. Because you can erase the part that is about people's personal data, which is about their basic data, which is about the content of the database itself, but at the same time retain the documentation and the debate that has been about the illegally collected information, for posterity and thus have both. That's why I just want to hear Mr. Troels Ravn, whether the Social Democrats do not see an opportunity to preserve precisely the part that concerns the debate and the principle, but at the same time to ensure that we have the database deleted and the illegally collected information.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164321	But the debate and the principle are important, as I have said. And that is why the proposal here also contains a provision ensuring that the data collected illegally receive special data protection. That is what I have also said several times, i.e. that information will be inaccessible for 120 years, after which they will only be available for specific purposes for the next 110 years. That is why I believe that this solution ensures that information of value to society is not simply discarded and that, at the same time, we take into account those people whose personal information is to be found in this data and that there is thus a reasonable balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164401	The next question is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164408	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Troels Ravn, about Mr. Troels Ravn could imagine a situation in which SKAT had levied tax illegally... let's say a few billion kroner... and it was found that this tax was levied illegally. Speaker, can we please get some rest? )
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164435	I think the guests found out they went into the wrong balcony. We'll let the guests up there go out before we continue. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen gets another minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164502	Thank you. Let me start by expressing our support for the participation of the Social Democratic Party in the intergroup we have had in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on data security. There we have agreed on a large number of things across parties in government and parties in opposition. I'd like to sign for that. On the other hand, I have to say that I am somewhat disappointed by the attitude of the Social Democrats in this matter. I'd like to ask, sir. Troels Ravn to imagine the situation that it was illegally levied tax, where tax has been levied without having a legal basis for it, and that is then found out. Would you not pay back the money to the citizens instead of saying: Now we are hiding the money for 120 years, and then they can stand and draw a little interest we might need it at a later stage? Well, sir. Troels Ravn that in that situation it would be quite okay to keep the illegally collected tax with the argument that it may be that we will need the money at a later stage?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164557	I do not believe that the two cases are at all comparable. Of course, the money in the case outlined had to be repaid. But it might well be that the system error itself and the procedure made something to be archived. And it would then again be the State Archives which, on the basis of a research and professional evaluation, had to justify that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164623	The rapporteur on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164624	Thank you. I think it is easy to compare these two things. On the one hand, it is illegally collected very sensitive information about real, very many Danes. On the other hand, the tax is illegally levied. And when it comes to money, we will certainly all agree that they must be returned to the citizen. When it comes to sensitive personal data, which you as a citizen own, it is quite okay to keep the illegally collected data. - Sir... Troels Ravn does not see that there is no point in having the view that data collected illegally should be allowed to be stored because, at some point in the future, one might be able to use them for something sensible? It may be that they may be needed, but that does not change the fact that they have been collected illegally and therefore have to be deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164708	Well, it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark are safe to leave our personal information to public authorities. And that is why this matter is a really bad one and all of us can only regret the fact that it even arose. This applies to everything from health information to tax information: We need to be able to be safe by leaving our personal information to public authorities. But even if mistakes have been made in this matter and in the collection of these data, and that is where, I have emphasized on several occasions that this does not mean that the information cannot be of value to posterity and future generations. That is why, in order not to break the law in this area, we have to follow the recommendation of the State Archives that this should be preserved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164757	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164801	Thank you. I'm a little confused. There's such a kind of legal profession at stake. The rapporteur recognises that the information has been collected illegally and the rapporteur also recognises that it is not very good. At the same time, however, the rapporteur says that we need to follow the law. Then what I do not understand is why, if the rapporteur acknowledges that this is not a good thing, it will not change the law so that we can delete this information. I do not really think the rapporteur has answered it properly yet. Then the rapporteur will not just explain to me once more why in the world social democracy cannot join the rest of us so that we can delete this information.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164900	Well, the questioner is also aware of that, I am sure that the guiding principle of the Archive Act is that it is the National Archives that evaluates what should be preserved. A historical and research professional assessment is being carried out and, therefore, it is not a political assessment on the basis of which it is based. I believe that with the solution we have in the legislative proposal here, we ensure that information of particular value to society is not simply discarded and that at the same time we take into account the people whose personal information is to be found in this data. And that it's a fair balance we find here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164939	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408164943	This is what I would call a shift of responsibility. It is such an arm's length principle to the third degree. It is we who are responsible for the law; it is we who pass it; it is we who can change it. And just because a rich architect interprets the law so that you have to keep this illegally collected information, it shouldn't stop us from changing the law. We have that opportunity. Will the rapporteur and the Social Democrats take the responsibility of changing the law so that we can have the information deleted and not just prolong the blockage period?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165030	But again, if the Minister goes against the Archive Act, the Minister will commit a crime. A public authority in this case has handed over some material to the National Archives, and the minister cannot just go back out without breaking the law. We are trying, with the draft law here, L 168, to find a fair balance in relation to the issues raised by the questioner here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165058	Before giving the floor to the person who seems to be the last questioner, I should just like to explain that there was a little unrest on the balcony because there was a lamp that did not work and which showed that the meeting was closed in here. I'm sorry for the disturbance it's been. The last question to be asked about the rapporteur at this stage seems to be Mr. Kim Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165119	It's disgraceful to be watching this debate. I know the Socialist rapporteur as a normal and reasonable person, and I also have a feeling of being able to hear that the rapporteur is extremely difficult to measure up to here. I can understand that, because it is an extremely boring matter. Would the rapporteur really think that the consideration of the system and the interpretation of the Archive Act by an administration unit are above the consideration of the inviolability of the individual citizen? Are we really at the point where an elected parliamentarian will take that view and believe that in this Chamber we could not have dealt with any other legislative text from the responsible Resort Minister, whereby the government could have had a completely green slate in the Chamber, would I assume? It is really putting the system before man. That is so insulting. Will the rapporteur confirm that he believes that the Folketing is not in a position to take a different decision in this area? I would like to hear that from the platform if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165238	Well, we all agree that this is a difficult situation and that regrettable mistakes have been made. But even if these errors have been made in the collection process, and that's where it is, it doesn't mean that this information doesn't have any value for posterity and future generations. It is also necessary for the errors of the authorities to be documented so that we can also learn from the mistakes that, unfortunately, are made in the future. But once again: with Bill No. L 168 we find a balance in relation to landing this unfortunate case in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165322	Sir. Kim Andersen to the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165323	Unfortunately, the rapporteur does not answer my questions. Like many others here in Things, I have had countless inquiries over the last few weeks about this case. Remarkably many of them have actually come from South and South Jutland, which I think is a little thought-provoking. It may be that in that part of the country there is a special insight into and historical memory about personal data. I shall not be able to say that. But I think it's thought-provoking. I think that should also be said by the rapporteur, and I think that we should put on the people's rule cap, maintain common sense and discernment and be on the side of the citizens, recognise our legislative responsibilities and not be a blind advocate of a trade minister and an administrative authority in the interpretation of legislation. However, consideration for the individual must be given to the interpretation of the Archive Act here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165434	After all, consideration for the individual is certainly included in the bill here. That is why the draft law also provides for special data protection for this illegally collected material. The information will therefore be inaccessible for 120 years, after which they will only be available for specific purposes for the next 110 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165500	There is no more for short remarks, so we will continue with the rapporteur's speeches, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165512	Thank you. The Danish People's Party's policy is actually very clear in this area, and it is that the patient and the citizen should be asked, the citizen should nod yes before you can collect personal data. That is why we are rejecting this bill, because it is trying to legalise what is illegal, and that is why we have also joined with the Conservatives, the Left and the Liberal Alliance in a motion for a resolution which simply calls for the deletion of the data collected here illegally. After all, we would have tabled an amendment on the same subject, but then the happy thing has happened that SF and Enhedslisten have become wiser and come to a better head and are now also in favour of having the information illegally collected removed, as far as the press is concerned. But that is something they will have to explain later when they go to the platform. Our clear position and our call to the Minister is that we should delete them. It is a mistake to store illegally collected information; it is actually unworthy. On the whole, the handling of the matter by the government and the Minister has been very disappointing. The draft law also opens up a wide range of questions. We have all received a host of requests from troubled citizens, and some of them have pointed to crucial difficulties. An expert as a lecturer in health law Kent Kristensen from the University of Southern Denmark has argued that it is not legal to collect the information. The minister says that's it. Who's right? The State Serum Institute has for seven years refused to approve the extensive collection without the consent of the sick. The chairman of the general practitioner Bruno Meldgaard points out that the Data Protection Agency says that there is no legal basis for the collection. Who's right? He even points out that the data collected are not worthy of preservation because they already exist in medical records and because the Danish General Medicinsk Database is a private database. Who's right? In addition, there are some wordings in the draft law that open up uncertainty. For example: It says that you expect the information to be anonymised when it is opened to researchers after 120 years. There are so many questions and so few answers that we would urge the Minister to withdraw this bill and instead put forward a bill that would allow us to delete this database. The Danish People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment which Enhedslisten and SF will be tabling here in a moment, and otherwise we will vote against the Minister's bill. We are, of course, looking forward to the committee's reading so that we can get answers to the questions we otherwise have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165832	Thank you. There is one with a brief comment. Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165836	The rapporteur said that it was very good that the SF had become wiser. Can the rapporteur tell us what happened on 27 November in the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165850	That's right. I put SF and Enhedslisten in the same hat. As far as I remember, only Enhedslisten would support it. Or is it wrong? That's fine, then I'll pull it all back. I'm so sorry. It's my information that's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165904	The questioner on the second brief remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165908	In fact, I am very pleased that the rapporteur is doing so, because we must speak the truth from the platform. On 27 November, the SF called the Minister of Health in consultation because we wanted these data to be deleted. We repeated our wish in December, in January and as late as February. So there is nothing new; it has always been our starting point. Thank you, however, for recognising this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165936	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408165948	Thank you. On the one hand, the legislative proposal we are discussing here today is extremely complex and, on the other hand, it is very simple. It is complex because it is about very, very many people's very personal information, which has been collected illegally and which is therefore naturally protected and not in any way intended to come to the knowledge of others. I have great respect and understanding for that. Public authorities or anyone else for that matter must never collect information about citizens unless they have a legal basis on which to do so. There must be no doubt about that. This has been done in the Region of Southern Denmark. It is reprehensible and it has been stopped. On the other hand, I think the matter is actually simple. Because I think it is quite simple that it should never be politicians who decide whether any material has historical value, even if it has been collected illegally. We need to learn from history; we need to know our history; we also need to know the ugly part, the part where the state or other public authorities commit offences. For me this is quite simply and absolutely fundamental to the rule of law. For think what the opposite would be. What if politicians could decide when something should be archived or not, when something should be left out of the storytelling? Denmark must never become such a society. What we must, on the other hand, politically ensure is that information about the people concerned whose personal data have been illegally recorded will not come to anyone's knowledge as long as they or their immediate relatives live. This is what we are ensuring with this bill, that the information collected should not be made available to the public for 230 years. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170157	There are four short comments to be made, and the first one is Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170207	Thank you. Well, as I signed up to the Socialist rapporteur, I would also like to acknowledge to the Radical Left the good work we have done in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on data security. There we have in fact put aside the political controversy and concentrated on some principles of data protection, because there has been one, we have to say justified mistrust, among other things. to how public authorities deal with highly sensitive information. However, as I said, there is no reason to continue this praise when it comes to this matter. For me, it is certainly incomprehensible that the Radical Left, which is a party which is otherwise on the side of legal certainty, can choose to say that very sensitive information that has been collected illegally should nevertheless be stored and therefore not deleted. I would like to ask the rapporteur what legal arguments are being put forward with regard to the many Danes who are now going to put up with a breach of law where information that should not have been collected now is not being deleted, but is being stored well enough so that it can only be used for many years. Is that based on the argument that there's a long time left, and that's okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170324	After all, it is in the Region of Southern Denmark that has been illegally collected. It is, as I said in my speech, reprehensible when public authorities do so. There should be no doubt about that, and I cannot but strongly oppose it. But the consequence of that, sir. Karsten Lauritzen says that politicians can go in and apologize to the Danish People's Party, because now I use an English word "overrule" when the Rigsarkivaren says that here is something worthy of preservation. It's a slippery slope. I think it is so fundamental for the rule of law that it will never be politicians who interfere in what should be archived.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170407	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170409	I understand that argument. But there is, of course, a balance of proportionality which I think the Radical Left should relate to. And when there is so much illegally collected information about so many Danes, if not really as close to all of us, then I guess it's fair enough to have a political discussion. We in the Left have the clear starting point that when so much information has been collected illegally over such a long period of time, they must be deleted regardless of what some authority says. There I would ask the rapporteur to confirm that the supreme authority in this country is, after all, the legislature and that we can legislate on what we can now punish the majority for. This presupposes a majority, but in this case it certainly does not include the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170451	But it is absolutely correct that the Folketing can of course decide and is the supreme decision-making authority. But it is important that the Folketing takes that responsibility very seriously, for if we now in the future saw a Parliament composed of some who took illegal decisions and used power in a way that they did not want to come to the knowledge of posterity. It would then be extremely problematic, that is, if politicians went in and said that this is archiveworthy or that it is not. I think it is fundamental in a democracy that it is never politicians. In relation to proportionality, I simply do not agree with Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen. In my view, it does not matter whether it is one or two people who have been illegally registered or whether it is many. It is equally reprehensible when public authorities register something about the citizens, without having a legal basis on which to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170605	The next question is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170607	Thank you. I think the radical rapporteur made a very fine and fundamental speech. But I think it is a pity that the conclusion is as it stands. As a matter of principle, I agree that we should not live in a society in which the authorities delete the clues of breaking the law. But I don't really hear anyone in this Parliament saying we should. That is why I was also trying to ask the Socialist rapporteur why the government and the Radical Left will not look at the possibility of preserving the part that has a historical value in relation to a violation by the authorities and that, of course, there is a conservation value in documenting what that violation has been made of and that, at the same time, it can be seen that it does not require that all individuals' private sensitive patient data be stored. In other words, one may well have the fundamental desire to document the illegality, but at the same time deletes the parent data. Why is this not something that the Radical Left will look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170715	Well, it's not because the principle happened on the day of November when the National Archives asked for the information to be sent to them to have this information filed. From that day on, politicians cannot radically interfere in whether or not the rich architect should do so. That assessment has been made. After all, individual citizens have been able to write in and ask for their data to be deleted, and there are 17 000 who have done so. But from that date, the basics have been done. I have asked the National Architects if they can remember that it has ever happened in recent democratic times that politicians have been in the past saying that the decision of the National Archives to collect material they want to politically overturn. That never happened. I do not think that should happen either. That is what the majority is proposing to do in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170813	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170814	Now it is not the case that these almost 20,000 Danes who have had their information deleted have only been able to delete them until November. The deletion has taken place until a week ago, and that is why the argument put forward by the radical rapporteur does not hold up. If it is 20 November that is the deadline for whether or not to delete, then the Radical Left and the government must insist that the barely 20 000 people who have had their information deleted after 20 November should return them. Otherwise, the argument of principle will not stand. That is why I would like to ask the radical rapporteur once again: what is in principle wrong with the fact that, of course, you can document and preserve the part about the violation of the law, and what are some codes and medical records that you have stored, but that at the same time you delete the Danes' sensitive private data?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170907	But there is the fundamental reason why, as soon as the National Archives has said that this material we want to preserve for posterity, it is quite a matter of principle for the Radical Left that politicians should not go in and trump that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170924	The next question is Mr. Lars Barfoed, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408170928	Thank you. I'd like to stay on the same track. I understand that what is crucial to the Radical Left and to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen is that in future we can continue to demonstrate that that error happened. So I ask: is it not actually well documented in the debate that we are having right now, and also in all the newspaperwriting that has been on the matter and so on, which is also being preserved? Isn't it well documented, so no one in 120 or 200 years' time can be prevented from seeing that documentation? Is it necessary for the personal, confidential information of the citizens concerned to remain in the National Archives to demonstrate that that error itself took place?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171023	It is necessary because it has the National Archives said it is. They believe that this information is relevant to historical knowledge. Therefore, the consequence of what a majority in the Folketing seems to decide will be that it may now be politicians who can start to discuss whether something is worthy of preservation for posterity or not. And that is the principle that we simply cannot depart from. We do not think that it should ever happen in any way. Nor has it happened in the past that politicians go in and interfere in the assessments of a rich archive. They have assessed a material to have a historical value, and then the politicians say that they must not hide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171111	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171112	That is enough because it has never happened before that the National Archives has insisted on keeping illegally collected, personal, confidential information about citizens. But that is what is happening here. So it's a very unique case. As I understand it, the rich architect believes that it would be contrary to the law to say otherwise. But if we change the legislation, there is no problem anymore. Then you can erase that information, and then the Kingdom Architect could make a different decision. But the short of the long one is: Is the personal information that is in the National Archives now necessary to have lying there to prove that the error itself took place? I guess they're not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171202	I don't think it is. But whether that information is necessary for the history of the future I could not as a politician judge. Because it's not my job to assess it. It is the National Archives and they have considered that the information is important in terms of history writing in the future. I take note of that and it is a principle on which I stand firm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171229	The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171233	Thank you. This whole thing about there being no one above and no one next to the Folketing, is over now, because the real-estate architect is over. That's the way it has to be. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171248	No, it's not. For the Folketing could of course decide what a majority now seems to decide. So, of course, the Danish Parliament is at the top. The principle of the Radical Left is that the Folketing should not interfere, but of course we have the legal opportunity to do so. That is what a majority will do. I just disagree that we should interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171308	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171310	Has the rapporteur thought about the consequences if the government got its way on this matter? It would be a proposal for anyone who thinks there is something that is exciting: Collect everything you want, even if it is illegal; we will have the rich architect say it is worthy of preservation. I fully agree that this is an incredibly complicated matter and that it may be a choice between pestilence and cholera. But this is a signal to all those who want to collect information against the will of the citizens, that they can do so and then hope that there is a rich architect who later says that it is worthy of preservation, and then it is all going well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171352	I cannot imagine who it is that could have an interest in collecting information that could become available in 230 years' time. I do not have the imagination to imagine that you could sit and think: we should collect that so that those who live in 230 years might be able to use it for something. This collection has been made illegally. But hopefully it has not been deliberately made illegally. That is why we have to say that we are in a situation where we have some illegal material. And in relation to some of what one of the previous authors has asked, namely whether there is illegally collected material in the National Archives, we must say that we do not actually know about that. Because the National Archives doesn't ask about that before. They only assess the historical value. They do not ask whether it has been collected legally or illegally. So we don't actually know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171440	The next question is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171446	Thank you. The rapporteur is, of course, faced with a large number of questions, because this is an extremely sensitive matter, not least for the many, many and indeed thousands of citizens who, against their will, now have their most sensitive data stored in a place where they do not want it. They want it deleted. I asked a similar question to the Social Democratic Party: does it not make an impression? Do these many, many thousands of citizens and the hundreds of people who have written to us and said that now we must think about not impressions? One might then ask how many e-mails have been received that support that we should retain the data. I have received zero, and I assume it is the same number that the radical rapporteur has received. So, all in all, don't you make an impression? Should we not, as a Parliament, respect the fact that there are no citizens whose data will now be misused in the way that they want to be preserved?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171537	Yeah, it makes an impression. I think it is reprehensible that public authorities go in and register citizens without having a legal basis. I find that deeply reprehensible, and that is also why it was stopped immediately discovered. That makes an impression. Because the reason why we are actually here today and have tabled this bill is because we are not going to allow the normal filing law to apply. If we had, we would have access to this information much, much faster. If we had not tabled this bill, we would be able to start researching them immediately and gain further insight into them in 75 years' time. So it is actually because it makes an impression and because we want to protect the citizens that we are putting forward this bill, so we are giving them a long, far longer term of protection than they would have had if we had not done anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171628	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171630	Thank you. But if it really makes such an impression, I do not understand why the government now, and even against the wishes of a huge majority, insists on the wish that these data should simply be preserved and preserved. Because if it really made an impression, you could change the law. Then, instead of the legislative proposal we are discussing now, we could have put forward another legislative proposal which opened the door to the deletion of these data. Why hasn't it been done?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171701	We do not have that because we have the principle that when the National Archives considers that a material has historical value, politicians should not interfere in whether it is correct and whether it has historical value. What we have done here is that we have failed to get involved in this very, very fundamental matter and, at the same time, we have entered and protected our citizens, so that it takes a great many years, 230 years, before this information becomes public knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171732	There are no more brief remarks to this rapporteur, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Özlem Sara Cekic, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408171800	Thank you. It is absolutely essential that the trust between doctors and patients is existing. When you go to your own doctor and talk about confidential things, it's really important that that information stays there. Today, eight diagnoses are allowed. The 705 diagnoses that are part of the DAMD register are actually illegal, and therefore the SF's position, as it has always been, is that we want illegal data to be deleted. Of course, what is collected illegally must not be preserved. That has been our starting point. The Left rapporteur has repeatedly asked whether it makes a deep impression on us when hundreds of citizens write to us. It may well be that it makes a deep impression on the Left, how the mood of the people is, in relation to where you put your line. When I had convened the Minister in consultation in November, the Left was silent. The left didn't mean anything had to be deleted. It's okay, but it has to be the principles that are the cornerstone of one's line. When I had the Minister in consultation on this in November, there was a very long way to go before then. It took me two months to get the Minister of Health in consultation. After two months he came in consultation to tell me that he couldn't tell me if these data were illegal. I was supposed to call the Minister of Justice in consultation. Then I tried to summon the Minister of Justice in consultation, but then the Minister of Justice told me that as long as the Data Protection Agency was involved, she wouldn't touch it. Then I tried to get in touch with the Minister for Culture, and as time went by, it became increasingly clear that no one really felt that it was their responsibility. What is probably the biggest problem is that since this case is running in the press, it is Denmark's Radio who has run the • there is actually an e-mail between the members of the region. One of them refers to this as a golden egg. I can actually understand that because this data is really, really worth a lot of money, and that's why I think it's very important that this data isn't misused, but is deleted. Carl Holst, the man of the Left in the Region of Southern Denmark, has led this crime. And he probably hasn't alone been at the forefront of this illegal activity that has been going on for years, despite the Data Protection Agency saying it's illegal, the CDC has said it's illegal, the Department of Health has said it's illegal. And at a meeting in the Region of Southern Denmark, they have also decided that these data will be given to private individuals. This means that the Region of Southern Denmark would like to make these millions of data available to private individuals, the pharmaceutical industry or others who would like to have a part of it. I find this totally unacceptable. The Minister for Culture wants it to be possible to lock it for 120 years. I just want to say that any current government can choose to open that lock. You can say that this is actually a golden egg, which is why we really want to sell it. This has been an absolutely crucial argument for me to actually delete these data. That is why we are proposing, together with the Enhedslisten, that we should table an amendment which first and foremost demarcates this deletion to deal only with illegally collected health data, so that we do not suddenly find ourselves in a situation where the bourgeois would like to delete everything about the tax case, but that we delete the illegally collected health data. This is an exceptional situation we are in here. Both the National Archives and the Data Protection Agency can confirm that there is no precedent similar to this. In the 1950s there has been one case where there has been some illegal storage of legal data. That is the closest we can get to it, and that is why I am really concerned that this will set a precedent for what can be collected illegally and subsequently used. Data is important. Denmark is one of the leading countries, and we must remain so, both in terms of being able to collect data, but also in terms of being able to use data for research. Research is absolutely crucial for the health care sector. I am now also the health rapporteur here, and for us to be able to detect diseases and treat diseases. However, collecting data legally is fundamental to a community governed by the rule of law. That is why we are tabling this amendment. That's kind of it. That's where we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172340	There are three brief points to make. The first is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172346	Thank you. It sounds almost as if the rapporteur has had a very cafkaian course with various ministers. I would say that this is the kind of thing that the rest of us experience every day, namely that we, who are the real opposition here in the Danish Parliament, are sent from Herod to Pilate and get no answer to anything. It is such a picture of how the government treats the opposition on average and yes, it can be extremely frustrating. But instead of doing archaeology on which ministers did not like to run in different areas, I would really like to focus on what we are discussing today, namely what is forward-looking. How is it actually that we ensure that we then delete the illegally collected data? How is it that we ensure that in this way we can also send out a clear signal that citizens and patients can have confidence in the authorities, can have confidence that the information they provide to their own doctor will not be illegally collected and used in other contexts? Therefore, it does not really matter to me whether we adopt our resolution or whether we adopt anything else, just as long as the information is deleted. But I just have to ask the SF rapporteur: where in our five-line proposal should there be something about other information to be deleted than exactly the patient database that we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172502	I have also been a real opposition to the VK government. And it wasn't because the service level was much higher. I just want to say that before you start drawing a picture that it was just driving fantastic with the bourgeois. We could not even get ministers to answer correctly. I am presenting what we think that amendment should be, and we are doing so together with the Enhedslisten. So, as I read the motion for a resolution, you want to delete these data by the end of 2015. These are the proposals of the right opposition, as they call themselves. I do not think we should wait until the end of 2015. Well, I think we should have a deletion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172558	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172600	Thank you. It was a little difficult to find the answer from the rapporteur, but I am trying again. Now I will read out the motion for a resolution tabled by the four blue parties: the government is imposed before the end of the parliamentary year 2014-2015, i.e. that it is what ends here in May-June, to restore the confidentiality between the patient and the doctor by destroying the illegally collected patient information from the Danish GeneralMedicinsk Database, DAMD, which the National Archives currently stands to store. It doesn't say anything about other information. If the SF's rapporteur can guarantee that it can be deleted before the summer break, 3 weeks and 2 days before our proposal, then it's just those days better. But I really don't think it's words that have to separate us. What must surely be the purpose is for us to have the illegally collected information destroyed and erased and, at the same time, to retain the part that has historical value, namely that there is, of course, evidence that illegal activities have taken place. And the National Archives must treat that well. That is why I also hope that the SF will be able to support our motion for a resolution if it comes to the fact that this is what is being dealt with first. That is why I would just like to ask again: where is it in the resolution that the rapporteur, like us, thinks there is something we can disagree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172717	In fact, beyond that date, I have not said that the opposition believes that all illegally collected material can be deleted. I've told you what I mean. We believe that this should be limited only, and that is why the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten and SF are concerned only with illegally collected health data in the DAMD register. That is what we want deleted. But I am really glad that there is agreement. It's amazing to have a cooperative Parliament across the middle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172758	There's another couple of questioners, and the next one's mr. Lars Barfoed, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172802	As I understand it, the SF was initially not prepared to support our resolution, but it is, of course, gratifying that we can support the resolution. I should just like to point out that the motion for a resolution is limited just like that, so we have to understand that we can agree. It is the illegally collected patient information from the Danish GeneralMedicinsk Database that must be deleted. That is what the motion for a resolution says. It is not even generally illegally collected patient information, it is exactly the information that we are discussing now and here that the resolution proposes to delete. It's just such a service information. But then I also hope that the SF can support our proposal. We can certainly support the SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172850	There were no questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172901	Okay. Another brief comment from Mr. Lars Barfoed? That is not the case, and then the next too short comment is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408172903	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the SF because we now have a united and united opposition to the government, which is why a clear majority is now emerging. And like both Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby and Mr. Lars Barfoed has said that there is nothing in the Blue Block resolution that mentions anything other than the DAMD database, so let us put aside the prejudice or suspicion, or what we shall call what came before, completely. So all in all, the SF's rapporteur must also be happy. Now we are in a situation where we have a massive majority outside the government, so what will SF's wish for the government be? It could be that we are voting through this amendment, but what if the government then says that we will not do that anyway, we are trying something else, we are withdrawing the bill because we might find some kind of gap in the legislation so that we can approve it without a parliamentary decision? Will the SF vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the blue parties if that is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173007	I just wanted to point out that today we are dealing with the government's bill. We are not dealing with the opposition's motion for a resolution. Am I happy? Yeah, 'cause I've been working on this almost alone since November. I know that Enhedslisten has supported, and indeed I know that the Danish People's Party, Liselott Blixt, their rapporteur, has wanted a deletion. It is a good thing that the Left joins Conservatives and others, and I am actually very happy about that, because I think it is a fundamental problem that data is illegally collected and then subsequently said that it should now be archived, and further afterwards a majority can just open this data at any time and sell it on. So in this way it is really good for the citizens. This is not about the parties, it is very good for the citizens that the trust between doctors and patients remains there, and I think there is a common interest in that, and I do not really hear anything else either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173106	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173108	I had just got the impression that we shouldn't listen so much to that bourgeois spirit, but I am glad that SF now believes that we should listen to the bourgeois spirit, because I think that also plays a major role here. I am sorry, then, that the SF has been in doubt and has not noticed that in a whole blue block this resolution has in fact been tabled a long time ago on this matter. I am sorry, but I am glad that the SF now knows and that we are now in complete agreement on what we should think about this particular matter. You can look it up on the Danish Parliament's website if you have not known that we have tabled this motion for a resolution. But all in all, I'm happy. The rapporteur just did not answer my question: if the government, as the government can do, draws its bill between the first and second readings, will the SF vote in favour of the Blue Block motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173158	I do not know where the rapporteur has been. The rapporteur has not been in a single consultation with me on this matter. Actually, I don't think it's okay. I don't think it's okay to pretend that it's now, because the Left has come into play, that this means something, because we who have been working on this have been working on it for months. I am convinced that the rapporteur has not even read the report from the Serum Institute. There is so much basic work in this, as some of us have actually done. If the government chooses to withdraw its bill, it's a new situation, and then we'll look at it from there. But I'm not gonna start talking about what if. The most important thing right now is that you actually get to know this case, which is really, really complicated. I am glad that the Left is now joining forces, because they did not do so with questions or consultation or any other thing, so I welcome that. And now we'll see where it ends. But the crucial thing for me is that data collected illegally is deleted, because it can of course set a precedent, because then you can always collect data illegally, as it can then be used afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173310	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173322	In fact, I believe that most of us who heard the coverage in the autumn on this matter were losing both the nose and the mouth when it came out that not only for a short time but for years had been collected deeply confidential information from medical records. Whether there are venereal diseases or symptoms of mental illness, it is deeply private health information, and what you share with your doctor is often quite sensitive. Therefore, it is our basic view that your private health information should be provided as a patient with the authority and ownership of it. However, when those data were collected over several years in violation of both the Personal Data Act and the Health Act, it was a serious violation of the confidentiality that you can expect to meet when you go down to your doctor, and I think that is quite serious. What is at stake in this matter is trust in health care, confidence that you can talk without anyone else listening to you when you're down with your doctor. It is also quite true, as several speakers have said in this debate, at least the Socialist rapporteur, that we have no precedent in this matter; it is quite an exceptional matter that data are collected illegally in this way. That is why I thought it was very good when the Region of Southern Denmark finally chose to make a decision to delete these illegally collected data, and we have ended up where the National Archives has asked for the database to be transferred to them. The National Archives can do so under the current Archive Act because there is no distinction here between illegally collected data and then data which is not illegally collected. The National Archives shall only take into account what they consider to be worthy of preservation for posterity. And that is why we are now dealing with a bill on the Archive Act in this matter. The Government proposes to amend the Archive Act in such a way that the health data collected here illegally are kept under very special rules, namely by blocking them for 120 years for researchers and then for 110 years for the rest of the public. Without this change of law, this would mean that these data could be accessed by researchers relatively quickly and also by the public much earlier than what would otherwise be the case. It is the view of Enhedslisten that the best thing would be for this information not to be transferred to the National Archives at all, and that is why we, together with the SF, have drafted an amendment to the bill, which means that § 9a is changed, so that the very specific information, which is narrowly defined in the bill, should not be transferred to the National Archives, but instead deleted. And I believe that this is a necessary change of law if we are to achieve the goal that these data are not stored in the National Archives. For us it is very, very important to stress that we do not want a general amendment to the Archive Act, so that data collected illegally for posterity should not generally be stored. Indeed, for many years we have fought quite hard to ensure that the authorities could not delete the information which otherwise revealed what had been committed by illegal acts. Some may recall all the cases of PET's registry. It should not be the case that, if a government or other authorities are more or less deliberately committing illegal acts, then it can subsequently prevent it from being documented for posterity. In that case, we would be faced with a rather serious democratic problem. However, we believe that in this matter there is a special consideration to be given to those whose privacy has been violated and there is a special consideration to be given to ensuring confidentiality between the physician and the patient. There is therefore a need for a political assessment, not only of what is worthy of preservation, but also of how we ensure the confidentiality of the medical clinic. I think we need to clean the slate completely if we are to restore that confidentiality. And that is why we choose to make an amendment based on this special section 9a, which has a narrow definition of the data we are talking about here. In my opinion, this will not set a precedent for interfering in all kinds of other contexts politically with what should be hidden and what should not be hidden. I hope, of course, that we can obtain a majority in favour of our amendments, and at the same time I would also like to say that so little work is now being done to look at health data for the future, not under the authority of the Minister of Culture's resort, but in the Ministry of Health, and there we will be working to ensure that the principle that I started talking about, namely that the patient has ownership of his own data, becomes clear and bearable. At the same time, there is at least a work on a personal data regulation, and at some point it will also become legislation here in the Danish Parliament, and in this context I think it might actually be appropriate to tighten up the rules we have for what is going to happen when a public authority breaks the personal data law as we have seen in this situation. But we will have to return to these two points later. I think there is a basis for looking at much more than just what we are looking at here today in this particular case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173903	Here are a number of questions. The first is sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173907	Thank you. First of all, I would like to commend the Enhedslisten for now supporting the request for data deletion. When I say now, it is because Mrs Pernille Skipper, on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, has answered some of these many, many citizens that is her quote: "That is why we in the parliamentary group believe that we should support the proposal that the Minister of Culture has made now. Then there are a number of reasons why you don't think you should delete data etc. etc. So first of all praise to Enhedslisten, who has now made a 180's and now supports the majority, which fortunately is, that such sensitive data should of course be deleted. So there's only praise and thanks from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408173949	Well, I always take credit. As I tried to explain in my rapporteur's speech, I think there are two considerations that should be taken into account in this matter. One, as we said earlier in the autumn, is the concern for the privacy of patients who have been up with their doctor and have now ended up in an archive. We wanted it to be deleted as a starting point. I remember commending the Minister for Culture when she was out with that view in December. On the other hand, there is also a concern not to create a general legal state, a law on archives, in which illegal acts can easily be deleted. And these two things need to be balanced. That is where we think we have come up with a proposal that balances the two considerations, and I am very pleased about that. I think that is what is needed if we are to achieve what the bourgeois people want to achieve with their motion for a resolution, namely an amendment to the Archive Act. And that's what we can do in this context, where the Archive Act is already being dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174038	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174040	Thank you. In fact, we have not asked for the Archive Act to be amended. Our motion for a resolution actually only says that these data should be deleted. That's all. Period. It takes up very few lines, it is very quickly read. I think that the consensus is fortunately so broad that is what I hear that Enhedslisten then also supports the Blue Block's desire to delete the data, and therefore I am a really happy man today. So again there's just a thank you and praise from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174110-2	But I fully agree that nothing has been said about the Archive Act in the motion for a resolution by the Blue Block; that seems to me to be the weakness, because the Blue Block fails to relate to the fact that the Archive Act plays a huge role. And if you don't go in and deal with the problem that the way you put this thing together has a huge impact on what happens in all sorts of other contexts where there is illegal data, then it's pretty unclear how this problem is to be solved. That is why I believe that what it will lead to adopting the motion for a resolution by the Blue Block is a process in which we will probably come to what we are now proposing. And then I think it is a little wiser to do it in that order and get this problem solved much faster than you could do with a process where you first have to go through a resolution and then wait for a government to table a new legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174155	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174156	I would also like to thank you for the new position of Enhedslisten in this matter. I think it is very important that, across all normal political differences, we can agree that here we must defend the integrity of our citizens and erase that information. I would just like to say that the resolution is a precise, narrow deletion of the information we are now discussing. It is not something that will have consequences for posterity. There is nothing in the motion for a resolution that will mean that data collected in the future will have to be deleted. So as I now hear that amendment explained I have not had the opportunity to read it, I think there is actually an identity between the content of the motion for a resolution and the amendment. That is also what I hear Mrs Stine Brix say. That is why we, the Conservatives, will be able to support the amendment if that is the case. I only hope that, if the Minister were to withdraw the bill, the Enhedslist will support the resolution, so that we are sure that the legal state will at least be achieved by the deletion of the data.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174309	I think it would be much more obvious if the draft law were to be drawn up. We have the solution. There is no need to go through a resolution and then a bill. What I miss from the blue block is the fact that what has been put forward here requires a change in the law on archives. You haven't dealt with that. It's okay, too. You can come to that realization along the way. But that is what needs to be done, and that is why we are now presenting a final solution which will resolve this problem immediately once that law has been passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174335	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174337	The motion for a resolution also suggests that it should be deleted immediately at least before the end of this parliamentary year. This is probably the same speed that could be achieved by implementing the legislative proposal with that amendment. So we wanted to achieve the same result, and that is so excellent. I just hope that we can agree that if the Minister chooses to withdraw the bill, we will find together a process, whether it is one way or another. At least I'm completely open to that, so we're gonna make sure this data gets erased in this parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174409	We can easily agree on that. I can hear that we have the same objective in this matter, so of course we can find a solution. I have no expectation that the bill will be withdrawn. I hope we can sort this out relatively quickly. I think we owe that to the very many people who right now have their data in some untenable situation and do not know where they end up. I think it will be really, really good for the whole of Denmark and all the many people who are registered in this database, that a period is quickly set.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174438	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174439	Well, it's nice that Enhedslisten is tabling this amendment. I have also seen the e-mail that Mrs Pernille Skipper has sent around, where she among other things. It concludes by saying that this is the reason why the parliamentary group believes that we should support the proposal that the Minister for Culture has now made; that is what we think is the right balance in a difficult situation. Of course, I was sad when I saw it at the time, and that is why it was a great surprise to me that Enhedslisten, together with the SF, is tabling this amendment today, but Enhedslisten should be praised for it. Could the rapporteur explain to me what has led to the change in the mind of the Enhedslisten, so that people are now in line with us bourgeois parties when we have to delete this personal information?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174540	As I also replied to the rapporteur of the Left, we have already announced in December that we believe that this information should be deleted. However, it has been very important for us to find a balance in which we do not create a general opportunity to delete illegalities from the authorities, and that is what we have dealt with and struggled with and tried to find some wording about, and I think we have arrived at that now, so that we can delete this particular information without creating a general legal situation in which we can go in and decide what should be archived and what should not be filed. That is what has been important to balance for us, and that is also what Mrs Pernille Skipper refers to in the e-mail from which the rapporteur read out, and that is exactly what we have been concerned about. In many other contexts, we have fought hard to ensure that the authorities are not able to erase their own illegal practices, and this is still very important to us. So there are two considerations at stake here and they need to be balanced, and we now believe that we have found a way of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174634	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174635	Thank you. In the e-mail sent by Mrs Pernille Skipper, she also refers to various illegal archives as a register of Jews in Denmark and a register of Communists in Denmark where they were collected illegally and where they have then been stored, and that is why you would also support the Minister of Culture's proposals. What just puzzles me is what caused the change. Could this be due to the fact that we four bourgeois parties have tabled a motion for a resolution with a clear intention of having this personal information deleted? Has it affected Enhedslisten to also have an amendment tabled so that we have this personal information deleted? It is honest talk that one can become wiser; we all do that along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174732	I get smarter every day. For me, what has been crucial has been that we have been able to find a model that balanced the two considerations I was talking about before, i.e. both the possibility of not creating a general state of affairs in which, for example, we have not been able to create a general state of affairs. a minister of culture would have to go in and assess when something should be stored and when it should not be stored or where a political majority could reasonably easily go in and assess when something should be stored and when it should not be stored. On the other hand, there is this quite serious situation where patients' confidentiality, their intimate relationship with their doctor, is at stake. The two things we have had to combine and find an amendment that could take that into account, and I think we have done so now. We've been working on that. May I also say at the same time, as I said before, that I think that the proposal from the Minister for Culture is far better than doing nothing; that is the reality. Because if we didn't do anything, these data were available through the National Archives relatively quickly. If I had to choose between nothing and the government bill, I'd prefer the bill. But we have an opportunity to do something more, and I think that's really, really good. Because we have a wish that we now wash the board clean so that patients, when they go down to their doctor, can be comfortable that these data you share do not end up in all sorts of other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174844	Thank you. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174845	Thank you. I think there has been such a bit of vanity discussion in this about whose proposals are the best thought out, rather than actually just recognising that there is broad agreement here in the Folketing that illegally collected data, patient data, should be deleted. I really think that is a pity, because that must be the objective rather than some foolish process discussion. That is why we have also clearly stated that we would like to support the SF and the Enhedslisten amendments, because for us it is not about who has tabled it and whose name it says on it. But I just have to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur: if the government now withdraws its proposal and thus we are in the situation in a week or a day: 1) that the information is stored in the National Archives, and 2) that it will not be subject to this extended period in relation to both the anonymisation but also the inaccessibility of them, will the Enhedslisten support the motion for a resolution we have tabled, knowing that, of course, it will give us another round where, with the proposal made by the SF and the Enhedslisten for this proposal, we will be able to settle for a round?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408174959	Well, to me, it doesn't matter who put it forward. To me, it matters that it's connected. And there's just one answer I need to know how to do it. I think we have delivered this: how to do it here and where to balance these different considerations. It's on the table in front of us. I just think we should vote it through. If we were to get into the situation where the government is drawing its bill, that has not happened yet, and I have not heard any of the government rapporteurs say it, but let us say that it is happening then I think that the clear best thing would be to put forward a legislative proposal instead of having to go through such a round with a motion for a resolution. Anyway, it doesn't mean much to me. I can hear that we have a majority here in the Folketing today, and I think that is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175037	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175038	When I ask, it is because, as I say, it doesn't matter to us whose names or party logos are on the proposal. It matters that there is a result which means that the Danes can again have confidence that illegally collected data is not just suddenly legalized. I just don't think that's exactly what Enhedslisten is saying they want to be part of it. Because we may be in a situation where the government withdraws its proposal, and then it is the general law on archives that applies, also to the data collected here illegally. In this context, it would probably be relevant to know that at least we think it will be, also for the Danes who are listening with • whether Enhedslisten will help to support that we then jointly do something about it. Whether it is called a motion for a resolution B 149 is what we have tabled or whether it means that we are making a L 149 with the same content does not really matter. What is important is whether Enhedslisten stands by it if it is not their own amendment, but it is the general deletion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175140	I do not know whether it is because the rapporteur has two brief comments and then has to stand up again. That's exactly what I said. I said to both the rapporteur here and to the rapporteur before that I think the wisest thing would be to put forward a legislative proposal, in which case the government would have to withdraw its proposal. That's what I said, and I think that's the smartest part. Because it goes much faster than going through a process of motions for resolutions. But it's technique in this context. Well, there's no disagreement understood that way. I think it would be wiser to table a legislative proposal than a resolution, and we would like to take part in that if that is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175211	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175212	So I have to return to the e-mail that Mrs Pernille Skipper wrote to a citizen 16 days ago. The rapporteur is talking today about a balance. This is exactly the same thing that Mrs Pernille Skipper is talking about in this email: that is why we in the Parliamentary Group believe that we should support the proposal made by the Minister for Culture; that is what we think is the right balance in a difficult situation. It's been 16 days since Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten's Legal Rapporteur, wrote this e-mail to a citizen. You have to assume that you can somehow count on it when Mrs Pernille Skipper writes in this way that this is the position of Enhedslisten. There has been no change in the draft law; there has been no new consultation response. What has changed in the 16 days of which half of them have held Easter? What's happened in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175316	Well, the fundamental change is that what was discussed earlier, the solution we imagined earlier, and what we proposed to the Minister for Culture when we talked about it the first time, was that you could make a rule that allowed the general deletion of illegal data. It's causing a lot of trouble. It seems we're gonna cause a lot of trouble. And that is why what has changed is that we have come to the conclusion that this problem can be solved by means of a special law, because we can see that here lies a way of making a special law that narrows down this issue quite, quite narrowly, so that we do not create the problem of having a general political interference in what is filed and what is not filed. I think that is an important consideration and that is why we have spent time on it. And that is why we do not think it is enough just to say that it should be deleted, but that it is not about how it should be deleted. And that is why the situation is different. We believe that we have a solution that will ensure that balance even better, both in relation to the confidentiality of doctors and patients and in relation to the issue of securing against political interference in what is filed for posterity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175419	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175420	Well, the rapporteur refers to some discussions that have taken place in the past, and I am specifically asking for an e-mail 16 days ago. Not a comma has been changed in the bill, not an additional consultation answer has come. 16 days ago, Enhedslisten's legal rapporteur for a citizen says she even e-mails it to her that Enhedslisten believes that the bill has exactly the balance that the rapporteur is talking about today, namely the balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of the citizen's legal certainty and, on the other hand, that we have a protection period of 230 years, and, on the other hand, that the Folketing cannot interfere with what is to be filed. That is exactly the balance to which the rapporteur refers. What has happened in the 16 days before it, but in exactly the 16 days that makes this mail evidently no longer reflect the position of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175513	That's exactly what I said. What has changed is that we in the Enhedslisten have come up with a way to solve this problem, which is better than what I think the government is up to. I am well aware that the government is trying to balance these concerns. I have not accused the government of anything else. But I think we can do better, and that is why we are proposing this amendment to the law. For it will, I believe, ensure even more the protection of privacy, ensure the consideration of the very serious attack that has been made on the confidentiality relationship between the doctor and the patient, and also the consideration, in that we do not want political interference in what is filed. That is what has been changed, and that is why we have tabled this amendment proposal. We think that would be clearly the best solution. And so I find it hard to understand that the government does not say: okay, here we achieve a better balance. But the government insists that these data should be preserved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175605	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175616	There are some problems that can be solved by having a pragmatic approach to them, and then there are others that have a very important principle. And what we are discussing here today is very fundamental. For me and for the Liberal Alliance, it is essential that we live in a society of law and that we live in a society of law where one of the most crucial things is that citizens have confidence in the authorities. The principle in this case is that if you accept that the illegally collected data, quite concrete data from quite specific living people, are preserved, then citizens cannot be confident in the future even with the reservation that the government is proposing that the information to which the public has access is information which is only preserved on the basis of informed consent. The substance of this case is that the actual illegally collected data should be deleted, and there is a majority for that in the Folketing. I think it is a pity that it ends up being a process discussion about who said what when and who has the best suggestions. What is a majority in the Folketing is that these data should be deleted. I am extremely surprised that the governing parties, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left are of the opinion that it is not politicians who should decide what is of value in a society, and that is why the rich architect over the Folketing is on a matter like this one. I simply do not understand that, even though I am trying with my brain to understand what that argument is that could be the basis for it. Nor do I understand that parties that normally place quite a lot of emphasis on the rule of law can agree that illegally collected data should be stored. This will raise a general distrust of the authorities, which is already too high, because we have the whole problem of the data recorded and the data available to the public. It is incredibly important that we stop or stop that mistrust. And it is perfectly obvious that we must therefore have deleted the illegally collected data from the Region of South Jutland. There is a majority in favour of this in the Folketing. Let us work to ensure that the data is deleted now, and so forward-looking make sure that it is not, of course, the case that public authorities can at any time delete what they do not want to be saved for posterity. There must be solutions to this. The Liberal Alliance is, of course, in favour of the resolution tabled by the entire blue bloc, and we are also in favour of the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175922	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed, Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408175951	Part of the responsibility and responsibility of the Minister for Culture is to ensure that documents that affect posterity are stored in a reassuring manner in our rich archives. So far, so good. This is something that we all agree on is important and necessary. Now the National Archives has come into possession of some information, patient information, which has a personal, confidential character, which has been collected illegally. It is so that the rich architect evidently believes that they should be kept because it is important for posterity. The entirely natural response to personal, confidential information that people have given to their doctor, who has illegally ended up in the National Archives, would be to deeply regret the citizens concerned and then ensure that the information is deleted. But strangely, the Minister has reacted quite the opposite. The Minister for Culture will not ask for the information to be deleted, but has put forward the legislative proposal that we are now considering, which is aimed at ensuring that the information is not opened to the public for at least the next 120 years. I think that in this way the Minister for Culture makes his ministry an expedition office for the National Architects. In the autumn we had a case in which the Minister for Culture made the Ministry of Culture an expedition office for the Danish Radio, because the Minister for Culture thought that when the chairman of the Danish Radio Board announced that you no longer wanted the Entertainment Orchestra, the Minister had only one thing to do, namely to address that institution. Now I understand that when the rich architect tells the minister that this information must not be deleted, then the minister thinks that the minister only has one thing to do, and that is to comply with the system again. I think it is a pity if we are to have a Ministry of Culture, which is just a dispatch office for the institutions under the Ministry of Culture. It must be possible to draw a line in the sand and say: No, here it is not; here we want this information deleted. And it doesn't hold true to claim that there should be a particular interest in posterity in this very personal information. It is of course historically interesting to document that this violation of these citizens has taken place. But it can therefore be documented without retaining the concrete information about the specific citizens to do so is to put the system before people. The system must be for the citizens and not the other way around. It would be to undermine citizens' confidence in the public system and digitalisation if we did not delete that information. And politically, we need the opposite: putting people ahead of the system and ensuring confidence in the public sector and, above all, the public handling of confidential information about us. We live in a time when everything is becoming more and more digitized, where it is easier and easier to collect and store massive amounts of highly confidential information. It also makes growing demands that we, as politicians, ensure that the public acts in a way that allows citizens to have confidence in the public. And you don't do that by saying that as Minister of Culture, you just have to do as you're told by the National Archive. That is why we are a number of parties which have proposed the deletion of this information, and we can now see that both the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten also have the view that there is a majority in the Folketing that the data should be deleted. It is therefore my call to the Minister, following today's debate, to invite the rapporteurs to a meeting of the Ministry of Culture, where we will then agree to have this information deleted. I do not care whether it is following one or the other proposal, as long as the information is deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408180433	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408180451	Thank you. I would like to start by expressing my appreciation for the comments that the draft law has brought about here at first reading. There are a great many statements of principle in relation to the legislative proposal we are debating, and that is quite understandable, because these are, in fact, very key principles in our society. The National Archives and the other public archives are our shared memory. It is by law that public authorities have to hand in their archives when they are no longer in use. This is legislation adopted by the Folketing. It was last dealt with in 2000, when this was reviewed again. We have a long and good tradition of preserving and widespread understanding of the need for conservation in order to document history. Therefore, we can also follow the development and history of Danish society over many centuries. The archaeologists are still digging away for legs in the ground and can literally use the legs, which are very many centuries old, to investigate what diseases people who have had the legs have had. We have a story that is based on what can be documented over time. This applies not only to what one can call the glorious, famous experience of Denmark, but can also contain dark sides that we do not like to be reminded of. As an example of this, I can mention slave traders and the oppressive colonial power of the time that we had in the 1700s, as we only know about it, because a great many very valuable documents have been preserved, letters, accounts and so on. You have not only had to settle for what they wrote about in the newspapers at the time; there were indeed also newspapers at that time. We have also had a great deal of pleasure in being able to have access to the security police records of communists in the 1930s. It is not enough and it is so little an answer to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby just to be able to document it by having been written about it in the newspapers. So it is not enough to do research into what kind of a story Denmark is made up of and has with it. The good and the less good aspects of history nuance the image of our society, even today, and it is important that we can document both deed and deed in order to be able to tell the whole story about ourselves and our society. It is characteristic of a community of law that we do not sort documents about our history on the basis of political views. And the Archive Act is designed so that it is not a political decision what should be saved for posterity and for posterity history writing. It is a very, very central principle that it is an independent professional body that decides it. That is why the Archive Act is designed as it is today, and that is what I am trying to live up to. It will be going out a path, as only totalitarian states do, when, in the extreme, they delete the trails behind them. That is not what we are talking about here today. I would like to emphasise this, but it is the principle that characterizes totalitarian states: that it is politically determined what should be said about one at some point. I am therefore pleased that the current provision of the Archive Act, which I myself voted in favour of in 2000, ensures that the collection of archives by the authorities takes place on the basis of a professional evaluation of the National Archives and not on the basis of a political assessment in the Folketing. The criterion of preservation is that archives must be historically valuable. It is not part of the assessment whether the material is legally or illegally collected. It is a professional judgement, what is historically valuable, and not a political assessment. And I would strongly appeal to the Danish Parliament to uphold that principle. Now a case has arisen that challenges our current conservation principles very seriously. As a public authority, the Region of Southern Denmark has illegally collected millions of confidential patient information about all the people who have been with the doctor since 2007. We must ask ourselves how this has been going on for quite a number of years and that it has even been concluded in collective bargaining with the general practitioners. It is of course interesting in itself to find out what has actually been going on and which has been going on for many years. This is not about what we can return to at another time, if a majority in the Danish Parliament thinks so, but about information about our diagnosis without the necessary permissions that have been put into a large general medical database called DAMD, and this is, of course, completely unacceptable, as all the rapporteurs have explained. Such things simply must not happen. It is very unpleasant that many people, among others. officials and medical capabilities, have not worried about the legality of the many, many collections. Of course, we need to be able to be safe by going to the doctor and knowing that no one gets to know our personal, confidential information. That is quite clear and I agree with all the rapporteurs who have noticed it, and everyone has done so that it violates the sense of justice, that such things happen and obviously can happen in Denmark, in an orderly society like the Danish one. But now it has happened. The rules for collecting information have been violated and the case is on my desk. I have not asked for that matter, I should like to emphasise, but of course I take up the task, since a solution is required. I believe that we must stick to the fact that the errors and shortcomings of the authorities are also part of our common history, which must be documented and preserved. We need to be able to look at the authorities in the cards throughout history. We must be able to do so in a constitutional state such as the Danish one. But what we, as politicians, can and must decide is how illegally collected confidential personal data in the health field should be preserved in the National Archives, for example the data contained in the DAMD database. With the bill, I propose that unlawfully collected confidential personal data in the health sector be blocked for 120 years. For the following 110 years, you can apply for special conditions. It is therefore a question of two considerations. One is the concern for the citizens' sense of justice, the other is that the law on archives is followed so that we can document our history. The bill, on the one hand, emphasizes the concern for citizens' sense of justice, the fact that information is blocked for more than a lifetime, and, on the other hand, the consideration for our responsibility to document and preserve material of historical value by preserving the material for posterity. Then the draft law also provides for an assessment to be made, at the latest in five years' time, of whether the blocking rules should apply to areas of authority other than health. The Ministry of Culture will have to assess this on the basis of information that the National Archives will collect over the next 5 years. For the sake of order, I must also explain that the law contains a change in the name of the State Archives, which must be replaced by the name of the National Archives, because that is the word that is most used in connection with what we are talking about when we talk about the National Archives. Then I would like to stress that I look forward, of course, to the further consideration of the draft law in the Committee on Culture. There will be a completely ordinary reading where you can ask questions and get answers, and amendments to a legislative proposal are often tabled before the second reading. This is done through the work of the committee and, of course, I expect that practice to continue in this legislative proposal as well. That would be strange other. Then comes the second reading and then the third reading, if there is a basis for it after the second reading. Then I would like to comment on a few of the speeches that have been made and a few of the statements that have been made, first the one from Mrs Mette Bock, who ended the series of rapporteurs. Sorry, sir. Lars Barfoed, who did it, but Mrs. Mette Bock was before mr. Lars Barfoed. She explains that she is very offended by the fact that the Danish National Archive is above the Danish Parliament. This is completely wrong. The Rigsarkivar is not above the Danish Parliament. The Rigsarkivar follows the legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament, which deals with the National Archives and how to extract material for the National Archives. This is done by informing all public authorities that the archives they are using now are no longer to be used, and then the rich architect must have them and assess whether they have historical value and thus have to be kept. It's in the National Archives Act. If we change that, it will require a change of law. We cannot do this without a change of law, and that is what we are talking about at first reading, which is followed by the work of the Committee on Culture. Then I would like to comment on Mr. Lars Barfoed's remarks that the minister is just like an expedition office. Now I will not go back to the autumn, but just take this case and say that I would be happy if I were Mr. Lars Barfoed and had a Minister of Culture who obeys the law and strives to comply with the law. It is not to be an expedition office, it is to relate to the meaning of the National Archives and the meaning of the Law on the Archives of the State. The whole exercise is to try to find a solution that will make us actually adhere to that principle so that we do not create a new precedent that if there is something that bothers a majority in the Danish Parliament to be kept in the National Archives, then we can just take it out. After all, we always have to think about what precedent it creates when we make decisions and act in new ways. So the Danish Parliament has adopted an Archive Act which determines who is competent to do what in connection with the collection of documents for the National Archives, and which criteria should apply and who is it who decides the criteria. It is not a political act, it is a historic, professional act. That is why it is outside the Folketing, but the Folketing can change the law at any time. Of course it can. I think it was Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby who spoke about whether you could have your own personal information deleted in the DAMD archive before a date in March. There was a little misunderstanding as to whether it was in November or in March. It is quite true that it was only in March, because there is a certain procedure when an archive is going into the National Archives. The first thing that happens is that the authority announces to the National Archives that now there is an archive it no longer needs. Then the rich architect will have to assess whether it has historical value. It has happened here, it happened in November, and that is why there is a date called 13 November, which is a date in this process. Then there is a procedure for making announcements, and then there is finally a provision for handing over. The delivery clause was sent here at the end of March or just before Easter, and that is where the possibility of having its own information deleted then stops. But you still have the right to see in your information. Now the archive is on its way to the National Archives, the delivery clause has been sent, which means that in principle the archive is now in the National Archives. What's the matter is that once an archive has entered the National Archives, you can't just take it out. It would require a change in legislation to do so, and that is what has been discussed here today. So it is clear that we will not escape the fact that we cannot act on this matter without amending the legislation, and that is, whether it is through amendments to the legislative proposal here or through the examination of the resolution. It's kind of minor in this context. A change of law is required. Then I would like to make one comment on Mr Seligman's question. Michael Aastrup Jensen, who had a speech that impressed me quite a bit. I shall confine myself to just one point, but I can come back to the rest on another occasion when it does not have to take place in the Parliamentary Chamber. That was the remark that the Minister had not contacted, for example, the Left. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Michael Aastrup Jensen meant the bourgeois parties, but it was certainly the Left. I would like to make it clear that I am very sorry today that I did not do so. So I would just like to sign for it and say that I have learned from it, and then I will not comment on it, because it is again something that we can discuss internally as colleagues, partners, opponents and what we are under the auspices of the Danish Parliament. However, I will refute the picture drawn by my being a rubber stamp or a dispatch office for authorities around the Ministry of Culture. Frankly, I do not think that this is a way to talk about each other when we stand on the floor of the Parliament and try in earnest with each of our responsibilities to make the legislation work or change the legislation according to what we think is necessary. So with that remark, I look forward to the debates under the auspices of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408181914	There are a number of questions. The first is from sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408181918	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for having a dialogue, and we would very much like to take it from the Left, but it is, of course, on the basis of a premise which we have put forward very clearly. I think that we believe that these sensitive personal data are so sensitive that we also have to respect the very great demand of the citizens concerned, namely that they want the information to be deleted. That is why my question is this: does the Minister intend to try to find a solution in the dialogue that is now going to take place so that we can delete these data?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408181955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408181957	I promise to listen to it in the dialogue that I will then enter into and try to find a solution. I do not think I am going to stand here negotiating options to find a solution. I have indicated that I am entering a completely ordinary legislative process with questions, answers and so on. and with possible amendments. It is clear that this lies in the way we legislate in Denmark, and I do so in a dialogue with the Left, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182024	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182026	After all, we got very far around in the minister's speech • documentation of slave traders' documents etc. We fully agree on the fundamentals, that is to say, there must be a guarantee of documents and other material for the future, not least of course, if there is evidence of a lack of authority and other things which, historically, would be interesting to look back on when it comes to describing the course of history. We are in complete agreement on all this. This is an extraordinary situation. That is also why our motion for a resolution, which we will be discussing next week, is concerned only with this specific information. I think, and I would like to ask the Minister if he agrees, that, in addition to the specific situation, there is a particular perspective here, namely that we need to ensure that citizens have confidence in the digitalisation that is taking place and have confidence in the public system, despite the fact that it is easier and easier to collect and store massive amounts of information of a personal nature about citizens. That is where we must safeguard the integrity of our citizens. And this case will create insecurity for the citizens if we do not deal with it in such a way that the information is erased. That deletion can happen without losing the opportunity to document that the incident took place, and it must surely be the last thing that is crucial. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182207	I agree with some of that, sir. Lars Barfoed said, and disagrees with something else. I am starting with what I agree with, namely that I think it is essential that we restore citizens' confidence in the system, and I fully agree that the whole digitalisation opportunity and what some call the monitoring society, that is, the fact that a great deal can be recorded about us, create an insecurity in general. Then this case comes on top, and I find that deeply, deeply regrettable, and I still find it difficult to understand that it could happen over so many years before it was discovered that it was illegal. I think that is something that needs to be discussed at some point. What I disagree with is that we simply say that history can be documented by referring to what has happened. That is where our debate separates from each other. It is not good enough to read in the newspapers what was said and written in the 1700s and in our time on this matter. But if you said that that was enough, you have to ask whether the data in the archive, the DAMD archive, can in itself provide a historical knowledge of the state of health in Denmark in 2015, which in 250 years' time you will be deeply concerned about researching. These are also the possibilities that are being researched if you delete the data.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182348	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182349	These are two very different discussions and very different reasons. So, one is whether it is important to be able to demonstrate that the incident, i.e. the illegal collection, took place, where I agree in parentheses with the Minister that it would be interesting to have dug in how it could take place at all. The second is whether it is historically interesting to actually be able to grow the data to look at the health situation in Denmark. On the last point, I would say that if you want to have data that will in due course allow historians to examine the state of health in Denmark, you have to have a research done, so to speak, to document it for posterity. This should not be done through the illegal collection of data, where it is then said that we cannot delete it when they are there. That is why I am still going to claim and hold on to that, but we will then have to discuss it, and I hope that we will have a meeting with the Minister, where we can hopefully land that the data will be deleted ■ that this data about patients is not necessary to document the actual illegal collection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182455	I'd like to join you, sir. Lars Barfoed, that we should take this discussion somewhere else than here, because the formality of standing on the platform and having a certain number of seconds is going to be a bit difficult. So I think we should return to what can be documented in one way or another. I would very much like to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182514	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182515	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister about the comparison made by the Minister with the Register of Jews and the Register of Communists and other records that have been over time, whether the Minister will not recognise that there is a marked difference between secret records and the fact that we are talking here about illegally collected but yet openly known registers. So we are not talking about anything where we are now 30 years later and find out that something had been wrongly collected. We're in the middle of it, and we can see that it's been collected illegally. Is it not the case that there is a significant difference between the historical parallels drawn by the Minister from Parliament's platform today? Should it not in itself give rise to looking at this with some other eyes than to hold on to the fact that, of course, the authorities cannot commit acts of violence against citizens and that it can then just be deleted afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182623	I fully agree that it is not possible to compare the registrations of communists that occurred in the 1930s and then the person-sensitive information recorded illegally in DAMD. When I use it, it is only to say that the information contained in the Registers on Communists in the 1930s gives a different picture and a better basis for research and knowledge about what happened than if you only had the newspaper texts. And the DAMD register will do the same, everything else equal, if you could keep that register and then look at it for 300 years or something in that direction. It is to say that we have enjoyed very much the records which were legal but which today would be illegal, with the registration of communists, for example. So it's just to get a parallel to some documentation. But there is the degree: one is legal; the other is illegal; one is what it is; the registration of some people who were members of a party; the other is personal sensitive information; and it is untimely to make that type of illegal activity. So it is not to say that they are equal, but it is to say that the research material means something when you have the documentation. That's what the National Archive is set to secure. That's what I'm trying to explain. I fully agree that this is also about the citizens' sense of justice and trust. That's why we've been trying to figure it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182756	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182757	Thank you. There is no doubt that it will be interesting research to sit and dig in this in 230 years or how long it is now to wait if you also want the names. But that does not change the fact that it is precisely about legal certainty; it is about citizens' confidence in the authorities. The minister says it can have research value. Yes, but you can build that research value by creating a legal database where the Danes can deliver their data with consent. So I do not understand the argument that this is about a future value, because it can be created if that is the important argument. The Minister said in his speech that it was amazing that this had been possible for so long. Yes, I fully agree with the Minister, and so I would also like to ask the Minister whether he intends to take the initiative to investigate how this has been possible for so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408182853	To the end: Yes, I have actually asked the staff of the Ministry of Culture to try to describe how one could get a little deeper into what actually happened. So it is at the very beginning, if I may say so. I would also like to discuss this with the parties at some point. I fully agree with Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby that it is, of course, possible to establish registers legally. There are already legal records, and that can continue to be done. You can make 705 legal records separately. You can just start with that, completely agree. But what I am also saying here is: once political decisions have been taken to go in and amend the Archive Act in order to be able to take account of the concerns that everyone is talking about, when will we do so again next time? So it is just as much to clarify what principles we are going to overstep and how we can overcome it in a way that we might be able to land a little differently. But I would like to discuss all of this with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183004	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183006	I think that the Minister is on a philosophical misdirection when she says that wanting to protect the private data collected illegally by citizens is totalitarian. The opposite is the case. After all, it is totalitarian states that collect and store information about citizens. It is totalitarian states that are opaque, so private sphere and public sphere merge. Well, that's the thing here. This illegally collected information is of no concern to anyone, and citizens instinctively respond to it. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister once and for all to start a process so that we can delete this illegally collected information, otherwise the government will show totalitarian tendencies. The Minister must admit that, if you only have a minimum of knowledge of what a totalitarian state is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183128-2	I wish mr. Alex Ahrendtsen listened to what I said. Fortunately it is written, and fortunately it comes in writing thereafter. I specifically said, and I repeat now, that the states in which the authorities delete the traces of what they have done wrong are totalitarian states. It is not a community of law that does so. There the authorities also let the illegal things, the wrong things they've done, go into the archives and be there for posterity. In a state governed by the rule of law, it is not the politicians who decide what is to be after them. I am not talking about the specific case here. I am talking about if the Danish Parliament moves into that level or the way to deal with these problems, and the Danish Parliament can do so, that it will be a practice that it sets a precedent for a political assessment before you want to put various archives into the National Archives. That's what I'm having a problem with. I am not talking about the specific case, but about the principle, the political position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183245	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183246	That is why the Minister is on the wrong track, because it is concrete. When a state stores illegally collected information about its citizens, it is the first step towards a totalitarian state. Totalitarian states store and store. They did so in East Germany, they did so in Communist Russia, and they did so in Nazi Germany. So it's a strange reverse way of using totalitarianism. After all, we do not want a state to enter and store illegally collected information. It is precisely to respect the rule of law. So I simply think that the Minister is doing a Pontius Pilate, washing his hands and saying that it is the rich architect who has decided it, and we cannot do anything about it. It is therefore not acceptable if you have respect for the rule of law and respect for the law. The minister should really think. This is not the first time she has been wrong; she is also wrong here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183357	I don't agree with sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. We have made the legislation that applies in the Folketing here. The Danish Parliament has deliberately placed responsibility for who decides what should lie in the National Archives with the National Archives. It has also been said quite specifically that the moment the National Architect has said that something has historical value is the Archive Act of the Personal Data Act. It's Parliament's decisions that I stand and try to effect from the platform here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183440	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150408183452	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 9 April 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
