ParlaMint-DK_20151116100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100016	The debate is open. It's sir. Erik Christensen, Social Democrat, as first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100036	Thank you. Bill L 47, which is for the first reading today, concerns the targeting of the statutory preventive home visit, which today must be offered to everyone at the age of 75. The bill translates the political agreement reached between the then SR government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party on 7 April 2015, where there was agreement between the parties to open up a more differentiated prevention offer, so that preventive home visits are more targeted at the weakest elderly while maintaining general preventive action. The starting point for the change of law is the report of the Home Aid Commission from 1 July 2013. The report points out that since the introduction of preventive home visits in 1995, there has been an increase in the number of years in which older people are expected to live without limitations in their ability to function. At the same time, figures on the elderly also show that there are major social differences in the state of health of the elderly. The Home Help Commission therefore proposes that the age limit for compulsory preventive home visits be raised from 75 years to 80 years. At the same time, it is proposed that particularly vulnerable elderly people under the age of 80 should also be offered preventive home visits. The bill follows the recommendation of the Home Aid Commission, so that per year 1 January 2016 is offered an annual mandatory preventive home visit for everyone from the age of 80. At the same time, however, the municipalities must also offer a preventive home visit to all 75-year-olds to clarify the need for future visits and identify citizens with special need for preventive action. In addition, municipalities must offer citizens aged 65-79 who are at risk of having a reduced social, mental or physical capacity, need-specific preventive home visits. The bill also allows municipalities to organise preventive home visits as collective events rather than as a visit to the citizen's own home. However, if the citizen does not want to participate in collective events, the municipality must instead offer an individual visit to the citizen's home. In relation to further focus on the 65-75-year-olds who are particularly vulnerable, the Danish Health Authority prepares a guide with knowledge about risk groups. In addition, the Danish Health Authority will develop an in-service training programme in relation to the employees who carry out the preventive home visits. In other words, the draft law is a consequence of the positive development that older people are still more able to function today than in 1995. At the same time, the draft law will free up resources in the municipalities so that they can focus more on the most vulnerable elderly from the age of 65. The Social Democrats believe that the bill improves the offer of compulsory home visits and, at the same time, obliges municipalities to have an even greater focus on the vulnerable elderly. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100336	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100341	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall return later to the fact that I am not so rosy about maintaining preventive action in the age group where it is now weakened. So I do not agree with the rapporteur there. But what I wanted to ask is that the rapporteur refers to this training course. Does this mean that funds have been set aside so that municipalities can actually train the quite large proportion of employees in the social and health sector who do not have real social and health education? As far as I remember, home help alone is about 14 per cent. or something that does not have such an education. So is that what the rapporteur thinks this training course is gonna mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100431	I am well aware that some of the investment pool funds have actually been set aside for further training and further training in relation to preventive home visits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100439	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100441	Thank you. What I'm asking is whether this bill requires an upgrading of staff. Everyone agrees on this, just like the whole conversion of home help or the settlement, if we are to call it such a qualification. This is a massive and comprehensive effort. We are talking about many thousands of employees in the municipalities, who must have trained their knowledge and skills. Is there money set aside for that? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100514	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100516	What we can say is that the continuing training that needs to be carried out is indeed in relation to the fact that we can become even better at identifying the weak elderly. And as I see it, compared to what I know about the care of the elderly in the municipalities, it is not the case that there is a certain degree of competence today. So this is, in fact, a boost in competence, so that we can become even better at identifying the vulnerable elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100539	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100557	As a start to this proposal for preventive home visits, I would like to explain why the Danish People's Party considers it important that last year's legislation on home visits should be amended. It is very important to be aware that over the last few decades there has been a change in relation to how older people live and feel both physically and mentally, and that social and labour market-related changes have also occurred in the life situation of many older people. Furthermore, we know that average life expectancy has increased. The elderly group is as many-faceted as any other age group. There are older people who, far up in the years, are physically fresh and active in the labour market, live an active life and have a social network that has been built up through a long life. There are also elderly people who, on the birth certificate, might not even be seen as older, but who are older for various reasons and have living conditions that make them need more care and attention from the public authorities. Among other things, it can be done. be due to a long and laborious working life, social deroute or e.g. abuse. Some may also experience quite suddenly changes that significantly change their everyday life; it may be loss of spouse, health changes or social changes that significantly affect the person. Therefore, the Danish People's Party considers that it is relevant that there are changes with the preventive home visits. The starting point, as we have also just heard, has been that the Home Affairs Commission came up with a report containing recommendations. These have been a very good starting point for the negotiations we had in the spring to review the preventive home visits. The fact that the visits are targeted at those where they do the most good finds the Danish People's Party is obvious, precisely because the elderly group is so many-faceted that more is looked at who is inside the body and not so much at a particular date of birth. I think we all know a lot more than 75 years of age who do not need a home visit at all and who might actually want to get rid of it. But we probably also know people in the late 1960s who have some challenges in life that require support and help. There will now be better opportunities for this. They can benefit from being supported either at home or from being involved in new networks or from having knowledge of voluntary organisations that can help improve living conditions. That is why they will know afterwards that there is attention to the fact that one can thrive and that there is help and support to be obtained. In considering this proposal, I actually have something which I hope the Minister will also discuss when the Minister has to explain the proposal. It is a bit about the inquiries that happen when a letter is sent from the municipality to the citizen about the preventive visit, because the letter says that if the citizen does not want to visit, you do not have to contact the municipality. As a starting point, this is also fine, but there may still be a small concern about the fact that there may be some vulnerable citizens who will be overlooked because you have not responded to this request from the municipality, and that is why the municipality is not aware of the vulnerable state of life of the person, and that is of course something that we should probably discuss in the committee work how we ensure. But otherwise, the Danish People's Party hopes that the municipalities will manage this legislation on the basis of its intentions and with the best of the citizen as the central starting point for its implementation. Of course, I think they will, but of course I am also very concerned that we have agreed to hold a status meeting in two years' time in the contract circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100936	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116100940	Thank you to the rapporteur. The hope is bright green, but the question is how much it is worth in these times when the municipalities are in an economic iron grip. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that there is a clear weakening of the commitment of the municipalities to carry out these preventive home visits in the age group 75-80. Today it is the case that the municipality must at least once a year and it is not just such a visit where they say: Hey, give you a cup of coffee? And then you leave after you drink it. The point of this visit is to come all the way around the situation of the citizen socially, healthally, physically, psychologically, etc. and observe the citizen's own home. That is why it has been introduced, and that is a very good idea. However, the rapporteur can confirm that there is a clear weakening of it, because the municipality now has to offer it only in the year when the citizen turns 75 years old, and otherwise only rings on again when the citizen turns 80 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101048	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101050	No, I do not agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur on that. I think this is a step in the right direction. As I also mentioned in my speech, I think it is important to make it clear that it is not always your birth certificate that determines how you really feel as a human being, even when you get older. That is why it is, of course, very important to focus on them, and that is also what I mentioned in my speech that is particularly vulnerable, and I have also suggested to the Minister that there is something that we should discuss in committee in this context. Because it is so important that we focus on the fact that if there are any changes in their living conditions, everyone over 65 years of age can actually be considered here, and I expect the municipalities to live up to that. It is the case that when, for example, you get to work. If you are 77 years old, you can always get a follow-up visit if you need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101138	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101140	Yes, but we are talking about what the municipalities are obliged to do, and this is of course important in these times when the municipalities are being pressed hard economically, and wherever they are not absolutely obliged to do anything they are tempted to cut back on the activities. Then my follow-up question is just: How can you focus on who needs further action if you do not visit them?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101204	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101205	I do not quite believe that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is listening, because I am saying that we are now going in and looking at the elderly, because we can see that it is so multifaceted, just as all other age groups are. We can see that there are some older people who are fresh in the late '80s and '90s, and then there are some who are actually already weakened in the '60s, which should then be focused on. It is clear that we are aware that the municipalities are under financial pressure, but I hope that the rapporteur is aware that the Danish People's Party is working very actively to allocate additional resources specifically to the entire area of the elderly in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101237	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101252	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing the law amending the Social Services Act, which deals with targeting preventive home visits. The bill here translates into a political agreement between the former government and the parties behind the rate pool to review the system of preventive home visits. Recently I attended a conference in Stockholm, where among others. the increasing number of elderly people was discussed. One social economist even spoke of an elder tsunami. Fortunately, we are not just living longer, we are also living much more without limitations in our ability to function, so we are living a more active life. Preventive home visits were introduced back in 1995 and the 2013 report of the Home Aid Commission points out that there is evidence that preventive home visits have a positive effect, both in terms of opportunities to improve performance and reduce functional loss. If we look at the group aged 75+, we can see that developments over the past 15 years have pointed to the fact that more and more people live without limitations in their ability to function. And it's joyful. But there are major differences in the incidence and distribution of both health and morbidity in the elderly population, and that is precisely the schism that the bill addresses here. For five initiatives are being taken with the bill, which will contribute in various ways to ensuring that preventive home visits become more differentiated and are more targeted at the elderly, who have the greatest need, without compromising on general preventive action. The new model for home visits will increase the age limit for mandatory annual offers from 75 years to 80 years, open for preventive home visits to special risk groups aged 65 to 70 years, allow for security visits to all 75-year-olds and ensure that preventive home visits are included in municipal quality standards and make the organisation of offers more flexible. For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that there is now a municipal obligation to offer citizens in a difficult situation needs-specific home visits, for example. If, for example, you do not know what you are going to do. has lost a spouse or has been through a long stay in hospital. Loneliness and heavy thoughts can all too easily become a heavy companion, which can be difficult to shake off. The vast majority of consultation responses are positive, but there are consultation responses which indicate that it can be difficult to define and identify particular risk groups. The Social Protection Agency will draw up a guide which will help to identify specific risk groups more easily, and here it would be natural to relate to cooperation between, for example. medical practitioners, hospitals, housing social workers and volunteering coordinators. Elders, like other citizens' groups, are different, and it is therefore essential for the Left that preventive services and the organisation of preventive home visits be made flexible, so that a home visit, for example, can be made. may be a collective arrangement or a more traditional preventive home visit in your own home. The Danish Elders' Council also points out this in their hearing answer, namely that home visits must be determined with respect for local habits and cultures. We know that the most vulnerable and economically disadvantaged citizens are the group most often opting for preventive home visits. Center for Healthy Ageing points out in their consultation answer that the bill here can have an effect on social inequality in health. Let us work together in this direction. When we have to evaluate the law in two years' time, I hope we have a clear picture of whether the flexible options have given way, so that the municipalities have actually achieved the goal of getting more socially vulnerable older citizens to speak. Preventive home visits now have a place among the other quality standards of the municipality, so as to ensure consistency between service level and resources. A more risk-related and differentiated approach places greater demands both on the employees who have to carry out home visits, but also on those who have to track down older citizens who may need preventive action. That is why an in-service training course must be developed to ensure that competences are kept up, and funds are set aside for this. Against this background, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101728	Thank you. I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101732	Thank you. I would then like to ask the rapporteur perhaps to take a look at those consultation responses again, because there are a great many of the consultation responses that are very critical of the risk-based offers that will now be put in place to replace the clear commitment that is currently being made by local authorities to make an annual preventive visit to the age group from 75 years up. That is a very clear criticism expressed there. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur: how can we find out who needs preventive action if we do not visit people, talk to them, look at their whole situation and find out how they are?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101816	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101818	Well, I mentioned in my speech here that a special tool must be created so that the employees who sit in the municipalities will be able to identify the elderly who may have a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101834	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101836	Thank you. But it is clear from the draft law that this is something that is happening, if you may say so, by remote control. This means that you are sitting and registering that when a person has become a widower or widower, it might be a good idea to contact him or when a person has been divorced or there may be another event that can be recorded in the computer system. It's remote control. But the whole idea of preventive home visits is precisely that there is a well-educated employee sitting with the citizen and quietly talking about how the citizen feels and learning to ask the right questions, so that you get a comprehensive picture of what the citizen's situation really is. Then it may be that it is a very good picture, and we hope it is. However, in many cases there will be some signs that preventive action must be taken here so that this citizen does not get worse or go to the hospital or anything else. President. - Thank you very much). So how do you figure out who's in need if you're not with them? Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101929	Yes, please. May I say straight away that we have a long day ahead of us, so I would very much recommend that we at least try to keep to the speaking time. When I stand up, it is because speaking time is very close to being exceeded and when I have been standing here for quite a long time, it is quite much exceeded. Here you go, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116101952	Thank you. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur is actually right that it is really difficult to identify the elderly who have a need. That is precisely why we have taken this initiative. After all, we have been able to see that some of the citizens who have actually had the greatest need have said no to preventive home visits. That is why it is important for us to have this bill addressed how we can get out to find the citizens that we can sometimes see are those who have the greatest needs. It is true, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur points out, that long hospitalizations, divorces and many things are at the root of this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102036	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102048	Thank you and apologise to the President for having to rebuke me. I shall try to make up for the late hour in my rapporteur's speech. The proposal is referred to as a targeting of preventive home visits, but in reality it is a weakening, a weakening of the whole idea behind preventive home visits. The municipality's obligation to carry out at least an annual preventive home visit from the 75th year onwards will be abolished and replaced by a preventive home visit at the age of 75, and then the municipality will be obliged to make a preventive home visit only when the citizen reaches the age of 80 and then once a year. That's a really bad idea. The point of preventive home visits is precisely to prevent situations in which the citizen cannot fend for himself or may become so ill that the citizen has to go to hospital. Here is one annual visit as absolute minimum. The request for the annual visit should in fact be extended to include the 70th year or earlier. Home help is in a huge upheaval, I would now like to say dismantling, in these years. The citizens must be trained so that they can take care of themselves. It may be fine as long as there is no pressure or coercion, but this change in home help means that more and more older citizens and others who need help in their daily lives will receive regular visits less often and less often. So even in those cases where it is voluntary, in other words in the context of rehabilitation, and the citizen is happy with it, it is a good idea that the municipality is obliged to make at least an annual preventive visit to the citizen's home, where you can come all the way around the citizen's health and social situation. The collective risk-based arrangements which will instead be offered to citizens aged 65-79 are a poor replacement, as several consultation responses point out, among other things. those from Danish Nursing Council, Danish Handicap Organisations, Dementia Coordinators in DanmarK and Danske Regions. It goes without saying that the observation of how the individual citizen feels will become more superficial if it happens as a pile wedding, not to mention by remote control, as I mentioned before. Only if the citizen directly declines the collective arrangement does the municipality have a duty to make a home visit. So this bill is not good enough. That is not just not good enough, it is actually a deterioration in care for the 75-80-year-olds. But that is what happens when the municipalities are required to cope with a growing number of elderly people and thus also a growing number of elderly people who need care for less money, because that is what we see and have seen over the past many years, and it only gets worse in the future when the so-called're-priority' contribution is implemented. The Government's response to the many critical consultation responses is an entirely separate chapter. All criticism is rejected by the fact that the bill is part of a political agreement and that this political agreement is based on the recommendations of the Home Aid Commission. However, the same politicians have themselves imposed on the Home Affairs Commission that it should not make recommendations that cost more money. I think that is what is called commissioned work and that the argument goes in circles. The fact that it is basically a saving exercise is also seen in the fact that no funds have been set aside for a massive upgrading of staff. After all, the proposed project on continuing training is not the same as ensuring that training is actually started. But if that does not happen and why should it actually, when we look at the narrow financial framework that is being given to the municipalities today? This too is being warned against in several consultation responses. The most curious thing is that this bill will be implemented without the necessary knowledge. Several of the consultation responses point to 75% of the total. of the elderly today reject the preventive home visits and that there is no knowledge of why. This can, of course, be turned into an argument for cutting back on these visits. A responsible government would, however, draw the opposite conclusion: that then you have to look at things properly before changing the law, when we all agree overall that preventive home visits are good for the elderly and good for society. Let me add that there is nothing in the law, as is also emphasised in the draft law's comments, which today prevent municipalities from making increased efforts, for example. with such collective arrangements or other outreach activities. However, as several consultation responses point out, it should be complementary to a commitment to preventive home visits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102514	There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102521	Thank you. I think it was a very negative speech made here by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, which is why I would really like to hear whether there is anything positive. Is it not positive, for example, that if you are 66 years old, something is being put into effect now, and does the rapporteur not agree with me, as I said in my speech at least, that the elderly group is multifaceted? As with many other age groups in society, we cannot say that older people are in a certain way, but there may actually be a 66 who have some challenges, because they seem more affected by life's, what to say, threshing than one on some and eighty etc. That was the first part of it. The second is: When Enhedslisten is now so negative, why is Enhedslisten not really included? Why don't you come in when we're negotiating? It would, of course, be fair to be involved in the process instead of waiting until the day when we know that there will actually be a majority in favour of implementing a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102620	Well, it's true that Enhedslisten is negative every time you reduce the conditions for the elderly, and that's what happens to this bill. The commitment of municipalities to make an annual preventive home visit to citizens aged 75-80 is being undermined. That's a fact. You can't run away from that. That is the way it is, it is clear. At the same time, we think it is a good thing if we take such events or other measures to give a much better picture of how the citizens of a municipality actually feel and where we should take action to ensure that they can stay in their own homes as long as possible. Everyone agrees on that. But there is no reason to applaud it, because the draft law stresses that this possibility already exists in the law today, so it is only for the municipalities to get started. So on the subject of bidding: I think the rapporteur knows the history behind it, namely that Enhedslisten was not invited to the final negotiations on the bill we have here. Well, then it's kind of hard to bid in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102727	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102731	I don't think that the Enhedslisten usually holds back from bidding if it is. So you could have done that here, too. But does the rapporteur not recognise, when you have some of the recommendations that came from the Home Aid Commission, which was made up of a lot of these stakeholders in the field, the Elders Case, the Danish Nursing Council, the LO, the Trade Union Seniors Council, etc., as has been outlined, that they are, after all, some important players in this area that has been listened to, so that we have actually followed the recommendations they have made? So I would just like the rapporteur to comment on what I asked about a 66-year-old, i.e. if it is not possible to say that a 66-year-old may have an even greater need than one on, for example. 78 or 83.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102815	Yes, the latter can only be confirmed, and that is why the municipalities must listen to what the draft law says. Whether it is adopted or not, it is a fact that nothing in the law prevents municipalities from implementing the initiatives described in the comments. So there's no difference between the law and the law. As far as the Home Affairs Commission is concerned, I think I was able to comment on it in my rapporteur's speech. It is clear that if you give a commission a bottom-up task and say that it should not make any recommendations that make it cost more money to run the area of the elderly than it does today, the Commission will abide by it, and then the results will be after which the politicians will stand up and say: No, what good recommendations we have asked ourselves for it not to cost anything. Well, it's a circle connection. It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102906	The next brief remark is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102911	Thank you. I can of course hear that there are two things that the rapporteur is particularly concerned about: the possibility of collective arrangements and then the economy. I would like to start by asking the rapporteur: can the rapporteur not confirm that the draft law here still allows us to have the more traditional preventive home visits, so that there really are only more opportunities now for preventive home visits?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116102939	Yes, there is nothing to prevent municipalities from making more preventive home visits to other age groups than the age group we have here. What is in the law is a minimum and it is dangerous to lower the minimum requirements in a situation where municipalities and politicians now stand here and pay tribute to all the good work that has to be done for the elderly, and when the same politicians themselves do what they can to tighten the economy towards the municipalities, it is very important that we do not weaken the obligations of the municipalities. But that's what you do with this bill. There is today a clear obligation on the municipalities for at least an annual preventive home visit in the group 75-80 years. We cannot escape the fact that the clear demand, the clear commitment, is being weakened by this bill. I hope that the rapporteur has heard so much from my various questions and my rapporteur's speech to know that this is, of course, our point of attack and the reason why we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103041	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103044	Thank you. It is true that the age limit is being moved from 75 to 80 years, but at the same time security visits are being opened up from the age of 65. I would like to ask the rapporteur because the rapporteur has already mentioned the economy several times: can the rapporteur not confirm that the agreement also provides funds for the further training of the staff and I believe that we are talking here about some 100-120 preventive staff who are supposed to ensure the implementation of this bill? Will the rapporteur not confirm that funds have been set aside?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103119	In other words, it is not security visits that we need, as some of the consultation answers point out. What we need so far, and which is still defined as a preventive home visit, is a really, very good idea, and what we are wondering is why we are cutting it. The answer, however, is that we have accepted a premise that we have to solve a situation in which we have more and more elderly people, more and more dependent elderly people, and that must be solved for less money than we have today. Then things go wrong, because then you start cutting care obligations elsewhere. Then I can confirm that funds have been set aside to train these 100-120 employees. That is fine, but I think the rapporteur should just go home and count up how many thousands of employees are in home care and how many percent of them are not hanging me quite on the decimal, but that is about 14-15 percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103225	The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103229	Thank you. I'd like to hear Mr. Finn Sørensen, whether he recognizes that the state of health of the elderly today is different than it was 15 years ago. I do not know whether the rapporteur is in a race, but I can tell you that I myself have run half-marathon a number of times, and year by year I see how more elderly people are running with it. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he thinks that the 78-year-old whom I have been overtaken by for half-marathon might also say a little about my running pace should have a preventive home visit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103306	Yeah, I mean that, 'cause that's the idea of the law. This is the idea of a preventive home visit, namely to prevent the citizen from getting worse, to prevent the citizen from getting into a situation where the citizen has to go to the hospital. Well, that's the idea of it. That's why it was introduced sometime in the 1990s. And that's why you can't just build a policy on a simple example with someone you've been overtaken by on a marathon, or by me who's still running around in this Parliament, and certainly not a preventive policy. It is precisely that you discover it in time. If you now come out and find that the state of health or the situation of the citizen is fine, yes, then you have invested 1⁄2 hour or 1 hour, how much time such a visit takes to be sure that this citizen does not need further preventive action. Then we should welcome the fact that tax dollars have been spent on it, rather than using it as a bad argument for weakening the obligations of the municipalities in this area. Because that's what's going on with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103414	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103417	Thank you. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not recognise at all, both that the state of health has improved, I did not hear any response to that, but also, and most importantly, that our task as politicians is to distribute the scarce resources. Then we can disagree on how much money is being given to the municipalities, but does the rapporteur not recognise that it is sensible to target efforts to those who need it most rather than, for example, to the woman I mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103443	The state of health of the elderly has been discussed many times in the more than four years I have been a member of the Folketing, and each time the Folketing has agreed that yes, the number of elderly people is growing significantly in the years to come, that yes, there are more healthy, fresh elderly people who can take care of themselves for several years, but also that there are, yes, more caring elderly people who require more effort. And there alone one should tell oneself that it is of no use that one wants to solve the problems of austerity, because that is what this is. We are faced with a growing challenge, we are faced with growing tasks, but instead of recognising that it requires more resources and a different political priority than the one for which there is a majority in favour, which throws tax cuts in grams over and over again to those who have the most, we are doing a saving exercise in which other groups are allowed to pay for the effort we have to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103538	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. And the next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103558	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance can support the proposal here, which aims to target preventive home visits to the elderly, where home visits do the most good. Targeted action makes good sense. This might also be useful in other parts of the public system. It is proposed here to move the age limit for compulsory annual offers of preventive home visits from 75 years to 80 years. However, every citizen must continue to be offered a home visit in the year of their 75th birthday, a so-called security visit. At the same time, the municipal council is required to offer preventive home visits as necessary to special risk groups aged 65-79 years. The adoption of the proposal will mean that more citizens, in need of these visits, can be offered them, while unnecessary visits are avoided. It is very appropriate to target the weakest elderly over a larger age group, as there have been major social differences in the distribution of health and morbidity. The Liberal Alliance focuses on the fact that there are offers and that no visits are made unannounced. The proposal will allow the municipal council to organise the offer as it considers it most appropriate. For example: collective arrangements may be offered outside the citizen's own home. It can have certain social benefits and perhaps address some citizens who would otherwise say no to the offer. The proposal envisages that all municipalities should describe their efforts, in other words how they will target and organise their efforts in relation to the particular risk groups. It is fine that it should be described, but we should be aware that nothing more is described and recorded than is needed and that not too much time and money is spent on description, compared to how much time is spent on visits. And the municipal council must continue to consider preventive home visits with other relevant prevention and health promotion measures. The parties to the agreement agree that the 10 million. kr., which the Rate Pool Parties have set aside for follow-up on the work of the Home Help Commission, will be used for guidance and further training, so that the preventive staff will be better able to track down older people with the need for a preventive home visit. The report of the Home Affairs Commission shows that there is evidence that preventive home visits can contribute positively to the health of the elderly and, furthermore, the number of admissions can be reduced. Finally, it should be noted that approximately one in three citizens chooses a private supplier under the rule of free choice and that the Liberal Alliance attaches great importance to good cooperation with private suppliers in further work, on the one hand, and to guarantee citizens as free a choice as possible and, on the other hand, to provide the best possible service for citizens' tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103918	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116103927	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here intends to target preventive home visits and make the scheme more flexible. We have already talked about increasing the age limit from 75 to 80 years. This is something we can support in the alternative. One of the things that we welcome in this draft law is that it is committed to obliging local authorities to offer preventive home visits as necessary to the elderly between 65 and 79 years of age, who are particularly at risk of having reduced social, mental or physical capacities, and in particular the targetedness of it, and it can be said, direct access to those who have challenges, we very much welcome. We also very much welcome the fact that some of the consultation responses have been taken into account and have actually decided to launch an experimental project to investigate why it is that many older people do not seem to accept the home visits offered. We also welcome the fact that funds have been set aside, as has been mentioned, for the retraining of the staff responsible for home visits. And then there is the collective opportunities or opportunities for collective arrangements that we also greatly appreciate, because it may turn out to create some presence and community and warmth among the elderly, which we have heard often feel lonely. Now there has been a lot of talk about why it is that the elderly do not accept these home visits and whether they should be individual, and on this occasion I would like to point out that, from a collective perspective, I believe that the possibility that lies in these collective home visits can also be very much a screening of why the elderly do not actually accept individual visits. Because it can sometimes be enormously cross-border to sit one to one opposite an employee from the municipality. In this respect, I believe that there is, in fact, a great potential in the collective opportunities that exist, in order to also screen, it can be said, the elderly who need home visits and additional support. In the alternative, we are not necessarily very pleased that ministers are authorised to take specific measures, as is the case in this draft law, but this authorisation is, of course, about giving local authorities the opportunity to organise their activities according to local conditions, and we very much welcome this, so that some local considerations are taken into account. So all in all, the Alternative supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104211	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104214	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would like to know whether the rapporteur will confirm that there is a clear weakening of the commitment of municipalities to carry out preventive home visits for the age group 75-80 years. I think the rapporteur can confirm that this is a fact. That is why I would like to move on immediately to a natural follow-up question: is it wise in these times when the municipalities are under very severe economic pressure from the majority in here at Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104243	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104245	At any rate, there is a change in how the municipalities are to organise their efforts towards the elderly. As I said just now, I actually believe that we need to look at this with fresh eyes, and I see this bill as an opportunity for that. It is rather the same as when we say that we should give every elderly person a bath once a week, where we are very much setting out criteria for how to treat them as elderly people, rather than opening our eyes and saying that here there is another opportunity to reach the elderly. There is an opportunity here for us, for example. through the collective gatherings that you can make can reach the elderly in a different way, and I think that is very much needed. Because we do not seem to succeed with the efforts that have been made so far. So for me, this is about looking at it with some fresh eyes that might actually get us a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104334	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104335	I know no one has suggested that the elderly should bathe once a week. That is what the rapporteur said. I don't know what that was alluding to... at least it's not to Enhedslisten. We have put forward a proposal that they should be entitled to a bath at least once a week. So this is something other than forcibly bathing people, I should like to point out. Well, I have to ask the question I have put to other rapporteurs. I have not really received an answer either; it may be, the rapporteur has it: how can you find out who needs a preventive home visit and for preventive action if you do not visit people? Because that's what this is all about. People aged 75-80 are not to be visited as diligently as they are going today. So how are you supposed to find out if they need it if you don't visit them?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104422	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104425	I do not think it is necessarily about the frequency of the visits, but about the nature of the visits. That will be my brief answer to that. I would much rather that we spread the way we seek and ask the elderly to some other forms than what we have done so far. Then it may be that it is not as frequent, but it has a different character that I think and hope can reach the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104448	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104457	Thank you for that, President. We Danes are getting older and older, and not only with it: Fortunately, we also get more and more of the good years. You are no longer necessarily old when you are 75 years old. At the same time, however, there are considerable social differences. While many 75+-year-olds live an active life, there are also people under 75 years of age who are in pain and need help. As politicians, we have a responsibility to link the rules so that we have money to help those who need it most. In the Radical Left, we want to make prevention more differentiated by targeting the weakest elderly with preventive visits while maintaining general preventive action. That is why I am pleased that in April we, a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, with the then Minister for Social Affairs Manu Sareen, agreed with each other to raise the age limit for the recurring annual offers of preventive home visits from 75 to 80 years. However, every person must continue to be offered a preventive home visit at 75 years of age. At the same time, people under 80 years of age must be offered preventive action if they are in a particular risk group. It can, for example, be done. be people who have just lost their spouse, are particularly socially isolated, have an excess consumption of alcohol, have a loss of sense or have just been discharged from the hospital. We want preventive home visits to provide security and well-being by facing up to the problems. We in the Radical Left believe that the longer you can, the better. At the same time, we are pleased that with this amendment we are following up one of the important recommendations of the Home Affairs Commission. So the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104655	Thank you. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Home Affairs Commission was given clear instructions in the terms of reference that it should not make recommendations that made it more expensive to run home care?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104711	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104712	Yeah. And this is probably one of the major differences between the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. Because it seems that, in this discussion, the Enhedslisten completely closes its eyes to the fact that there is a certain amount of money and that we therefore have a political responsibility to prioritise so that we can help those people who need it most. Because if we do not give priority to this, we risk not doing it well enough for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104738	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104740	Thank you for a clear message. It is absolutely true that it is the clear difference between the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left and, for that matter, all the other parties that support this bill. We have the impression that if the challenges of the elderly are growing and that is what they are doing, all agree on that, then we have to put more money off, and then we have to prioritise differently from the majority in this Parliament; tax relief is given more priority than good care for the elderly, i.e. mostly to those who already have the most. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104813	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104815	Yes, because the money we have to distribute to welfare is of course served by our companies, and therefore there must be balance in things so that the money we get in the treasury is some money that we can share out to welfare. If the Enhedslisten does not want to give priority to helping those who need it the most, then the consequences will be in the municipalities that they have to cut down in our day care institutions, that they have to cut down in our schools or that they have to cut down in the care of the elderly. We in the Radical Left believe that, when we can see that the elderly are becoming more and more different, we have a responsibility to ensure that we then also differentiate the effort so that we can help those who need it most.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104855	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116104901	Thank you. This proposal calls for a much greater focus, not least on the risk groups which are and which we are also familiar with in the care of the elderly. That is why I believe that we are taking an important step towards improving this. After all, there are two motions for resolutions which we will be dealing with a little later today, which will also address the debate on the priority of resources and which will address the debate on how we actually ensure that we get the most health for the money. How do we ensure this in this case? How do the elderly receive the best possible treatment? Because we know that the Danes generally live longer, but we also know that there are thus some groups which have not benefited from the same longevity as other groups. That is why it is absolutely crucial, including for SF, that we focus on the particular groups that are at risk, but also some groups where something can actually be done if we intervene early. That is why I am so pleased that we are also looking at whether the municipalities are basically offering preventive home visits for particular risk groups. It is precisely the point that is in this, that we simply need to be much better at getting hold of the elderly who have the needs. And, of course, sometimes we also have to be much better at sorting out some. But if it is about the fact that in the end we can give the Danes better treatment and better care, then I think we have come really, really far. I have noticed very well that Enhedslisten has been a little upset about this, as has been the case with many other proposals, but frankly I am a little over it and also wondering about the explanatory statement that has been made, because that is a bit of the discussion about the money tree. Enhedslisten has found this in today's debate, and it is very lovely, but I think it seems a bit opportune. I am, in fact, pleased that we have succeeded in also focusing on the fact that we are finally starting to think that it is the risk groups that need to focus, and we are doing so with this proposal, which, as the previous rapporteur said, follows up on what the Home Affairs Commission has also achieved. So I actually think it is a good proposal and I would like to give SF's full support to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105114	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105117	Thank you. The rapporteur has obviously not listened to what our reasons are for voting against this. I am not going to repeat that, but just ask the rapporteur to read through the debate afterwards when it is written or on television. Can the rapporteur confirm that the law already allows the municipalities to make a special effort, such as: the one described in the bill here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105140	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105141	Well, I have actually listened to the debate and I have not heard any concrete proposal from Mr. Finn Sørensen on what we are going to propose in terms of maintaining that we want everything to be done, but, moreover, we must also recognise that there are of course many other areas we need to prioritise, including in the area of welfare. I think SF and Enhedslisten agree on that. But I think it is a little strange when you are not part of an agreement, because it is generally difficult on the part of the Enhedslisten that we have not, I think, indicated any kind of funding and do not recognise that what we are actually doing with this proposal is precisely focusing on the fact that there are some risk groups that need to be dealt with even better. So this is really about focusing resources where the needs are greatest, and I actually think so, sir. Finn Sørensen should acknowledge instead of constantly jumping up on the high horse and be well in the process of criticizing. Sometimes it's also about spending the money where it does the most good.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105233	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105235	Thank you. I just note that the rapporteur did not answer my question as to whether the law already allows municipalities to make the increased effort mentioned here with these events and what else is being proposed. But then I can answer, the law already does. So that cannot be an argument for voting in favour of the bill unless we have accepted the economic logic that all the other parties in this House have accepted, that we must now accept that the municipalities cannot get more money to drive the area of the elderly, despite the fact that the challenges are growing and growing. And that is the content of SF's argument in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105311	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105312	The SF is opposed to the re-priority contribution that the government has proposed. We have also opposed the Enhedslisten, which, to me, is remote from reality and sometimes seems to be living on a completely different planet, recognising that there are some resources that you need. That is why it is also a question of looking at the money that we have at our disposal, and although I would also like to see a little more than those that are today with the current government, I also believe that we have to look in particular at how we spend the money in relation to those groups that actually have the greatest needs. And that's actually what I've heard Finn Sørensen wouldn't acknowledge in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105344	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105353	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we welcome the broad agreement reached on 7 April 2015 and which is now being transposed into law. It takes a small but not insignificant step towards seeing individual people as politicians rather than putting people in boxes. Until now, it has been the case that you belonged to the box 75 years and over, so you had an annual preventive home visit, no matter how fresh and well functioning you might be. Fortunately, many 75-year-olds today are quite self-help. This was also the conclusion of the Home Aid Commission, which published its report in July 2013. Here it is pointed out how there has been a marked development in the state of health over the last 15 years, which means that older people can now be expected to live for several years without reduced functional capacity. It is quite simply a new and different group of older people that we are dealing with. Therefore, there is no need to sicken these people with too many unnecessary home calls. Instead, we need to target the visits more closely to those who need them, those who need the extended hand that a preventive home visit can be. It may be the 73-year-old man who recently lost his wife, who may have both controlled the medicine at home and cooked in the kitchen. He may need help, and he can get it with these revised rules. With these words, I and the Conservative People's Party give our support to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105523	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no questions, and then it is the Minister for Health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105535	Thank you for that and thank all the rapporteurs for receiving the bill. I am very pleased with the statements that have been made in today's debate. I sense that with one exception there is a very, very broad consensus in the Danish Parliament to set the age limit for the annual preventive home visits up to 80 years and at the same time target the preventive home visits to the 65-79-year-olds who are at particular risk of losing their ability to function. As one of the rapporteurs also mentioned in his speech, developments over recent years show that there has been an increase in the number of years in which the elderly and fortunately for it live without functional restrictions. At the same time, there are clear social differences in the incidence and distribution of health and disease in the elderly. Back in April 2015, it was with a broad political agreement that all parties except the Enhedslisten agreed that we should open up a more differentiated prevention offer in the future, with preventive home visits targeting the weakest elderly to a greater extent, while maintaining general preventive action. This is what we are doing today with the draft law we are debating today, and I thank you for the speeches and, of course, make myself available to answer any questions which might arise from the committee's examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105714	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105717	Thank you. As I also said in my speech, we are very concerned that we should improve the system, including for some other groups, and that we should look more at the individual than at the certificate of baptism as such. But I would like to ask the Minister something. I also mentioned in my speech the question that, when you receive such a letter from a municipality, perhaps it was an idea to say that you should reflect on the request, so that the municipality knows that the citizen has read it and has received the letter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105745	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105747	The draft law here, as it has been put forward, makes it up to the municipalities to organise the preventive home visits which they consider appropriate, and this is where they, for example, are. can offer collective arrangements for smaller or larger groups of citizens, and this applies to all the target groups of the proposal, i.e. all the statutory preventive home visits. It is also clear from the comments on the draft law that if a citizen refuses, for example. a collective event, the citizen must continue to be offered an individual visit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105826	Thank you. Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105829	That's not exactly what I asked. What I was actually asking was about the letter you get. And I do not really know whether it is a standard letter, i.e. whether they are the same in all municipalities, but I have at least seen one and have seen that it did not require a reply, that is to say a confirmation of receipt of the letter. I would just like to hear from the Minister whether it was perhaps not an idea that it was proposed to the municipalities that the citizen should just report that it had been received. I can't see if it's gonna be very, very expensive. I would say straight away that it should not cost so much if it were, but it is precisely to ensure that there are no vulnerable people who really should have been taken care of, who are just left to themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105906	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105907	It can be said that the whole main purpose of the draft law is precisely to be aware that there are some particularly vulnerable groups of people who have special needs that we are probably not very good at meeting today. And that is what the bill here puts a thick line under, that is, that there is a potential to do better, namely by targeting resources where there is the greatest need. There is also an increased reflection on the part of the municipalities in targeting preventive home visits in relation to those groups of older citizens who have the greatest needs. As to whether, in addition, there can be any reflection on letters and other matters, that is probably something we need to examine further. I just think the important thing is that we do not start pulling down some big bureaucracy over the bill as it stands here. I can see that the rapporteur nods and that is wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116105957	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110002	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the Minister to reply to the criticism from Danske Regionser, i.e. the one in the Danske Regioner's hearing response. I do not think that is at all what is being done in the consultation note. Danish Regions have two criticisms. One is a criticism of the so-called flexible organisation of preventive home visits in the form of collective arrangements, etc. Firstly, there will be a risk of differences between the municipalities in the quality of the offer, so that the postal number determines the quality of the offer. Secondly, these collective events miss out on important information about the citizen, which would otherwise be obtained by visiting the citizens' homes. So Danske Regioner concludes that the two conditions, i.e. more flexible organisation of the offer and fewer annual visits to the elderly under 80 years of age, overall mean that the municipalities will have less chance of discovering in time the starting loss of function or disease among the elderly under 80 years of age, which is not immediately considered to belong to the risk group. I would like the Minister to state that Danske Regioner clearly points out that there is therefore a danger that this will reduce the possibility of discovering the problems of the elderly in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110120	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110122	In relation to the question of how we ensure that there is also a more uniform quality in the municipalities, it is, of course, in the draft law that they are required in the municipalities to set quality standards, where they are, among other things, required. describe how they will target and organise action in relation to the particular risk groups. And, as I also said to the previous question, on the question that the elderly citizen who does not want to participate in a collective event, I would say no: but here too, in the draft law, there is what can be read in the comments that then the citizen must continue to be offered an individual visit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110202	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110204	Thank you. It is true that it has to be written into the quality standards, but there the municipality can write anything, and we have had a judgment in the Supreme Court in relation to the case of Køge Municipality, where the Supreme Court stated that the municipality could take a purely economic view when it lowered quality standards. If the municipality were to save, it could, on that basis, lower the quality standard, so that is probably not very reassuring. Will the Minister not just try to deal with the criticism and the concern of the Danish Regions that the weakened commitment of the municipalities to the group from 75 years to 80 years might lead to a number of problems for the elderly, which are not discovered in time, with the resultant increase in expenditure?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110255	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110257	As I know, the overall response from the Danish Regions is not quite as negative as the rapporteur is trying to express, but I think it is quite fine to highlight some points where it is said that it is important to pay attention here to how we ensure that we get in touch with the citizens who are in the particular risk groups. That, again, is the whole point of saying that instead of doing what we are doing today, we are, so to speak, lubricating so to speak, apologizing for the phrase "the liver" in all places, targeting the effort much more rigorously in relation to the citizens who have the greatest need. I am absolutely convinced that this will give a much greater quality in the offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110337	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak now, and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110352	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116110439	Thank you for that and thank the authors of the motions for resolutions setting up a priority institute. After all, the proposals touch on some fundamental questions about what values and objectives we want for the Danish health service. Do we also want to have a health service in the future with free and equal access to high-quality healthcare, and how do we ensure that at the same time we have as much health as possible for the money? These are some of the important questions, and I see today's discussion of the proposals as a good opportunity to have a constructive and hopefully also nuanced debate here in the Folketing on our response to the question. The reason for the proposals is that in recent years we have seen an increase in the cost of hospital medicine. This is a real challenge that we must take seriously. But there is also a need for a more nuanced debate on the cost of medicines. Because it is true that we have seen an increase in the cost of hospital medicine in recent years, but on the other hand, apart from last year, we have seen that these increases have been matched by a corresponding reduction in the cost of supplementary medicine. In addition, it must also be borne in mind that the proportion of medicines in total health costs has been around. 12% to 14% In recent years, so much money is spent on much more than medicine in the regions, and that is what will happen in the future. It is also important for me to say that I think we should welcome the fact that there is constant progress in medicine, which is one of the things that we should welcome. This means that patients can be treated for diseases that are not currently treatable and that die or become disabled. Patients must benefit from the progress that, fortunately, is constantly being made in the field of medicine, and therefore, in a society such as Denmark, we must always be able to afford to use new hospital medicine if it is better than the one already on the market. I also take the view that if there are medicines that can save human lives or give seriously ill Danes a significantly better life, then, as a rich society, we must be able to offer the patients the medicine. In short, it should not be the wallet that decides in Denmark whether a cancer patient, for example, can get his treatment. We in the government want a high quality healthcare system where patients have easy and equal access to treatment with the right medicine at the right time. We put action behind the words, and that is why we have now put in place the draft Finance Act to add a total of 2.4 billion. kr. extra for health next year. Of these, 1.5 billion have been set aside. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. This does not mean that we simply have to open our purses without thinking about allowing pharmaceutical manufacturers to take on board. Of course, we must negotiate prices with them and we must try to achieve greater transparency in relation to prices in other countries. Therefore, we will also try hard to get the best prices when we are going to negotiate with the Pharmaceutical Industry Association on the prices of hospital medicine in the coming years. In addition, I myself have taken the initiative that we now have across the Nordic countries a mapping of our various experiences in the field of medicine. I did so when I met my Nordic ministerial colleagues here in Copenhagen earlier this year. The increasing cost of medicines is a challenge for all of us in the Nordic countries, and increased Nordic cooperation can be one of several initiatives that can help to dampen the development we have seen in recent years, when the cost of hospital medicine has been increasing. I am therefore also pleased that we have now agreed, in the first place, to map out our respective experiences with, among others. the purchase of medicines. For the mapping can be the first step towards, hopefully, strengthening cooperation in the Nordic countries in the field of medicine. If we delve a little into the proposals, I must point out, for the sake of good order, that B 19, tabled by the Socialist People's Party, bears a little bit of confusion. The proposal refers to the approval of new medicines, but none of the bodies mentioned in the proposal may approve medicine in Denmark. The Agency for Medicinal Products or the European Medicines Agency, EMA, is doing so, and I therefore believe that the authors of the proposal do not mean the authorisation of medicinal products within the meaning of the law, but refer to the question of the use of new medicinal products. As another concrete element, it is proposed to set up a priority institute through the merger of KRIS, RADS, IRF, Amgros and parts of the Danish Health Authority. It is obvious that the various bodies currently working on assessing the use and use of medicinal products should be brought together. We must also remember, as politicians, that these bodies do not exist without reason. Nor should we forget that they do a number of different tasks and that the answer in itself is therefore not just to lump it all together in a large institute. But I will certainly not deny that there may be a need to look at the entire organisation of the bodies and authorities involved in the use of medicines in Denmark. On the other hand, I think we should think very carefully about how we can do better. And it is also important for me today to stress that I am not opposed to priorities. There should not be free choice on all shelves and, of course, we should be willing to reject new and expensive technology that does not seem to benefit patients significantly. At the same time, however, I believe that we must stand on a solid footing before we start a major reorganisation of priorities, which the proposers are proposing. It is also important to be aware that, of course, a priority institute is not the only tool in the toolbox that can help alleviate the pressure of expenditure on medicines, even if it sometimes sounds that way when you listen to the debate. It just doesn't make it any more right, no matter how many times it may be highlighted. There are many other and more tools in the toolbox, and in the government we think it is important that we look broadly at the opportunities we have to deal with the cost of medicines. This is also the reason why, together with the regions of Denmark, Danske Regions, we have agreed to initiate analyses to look at all aspects of the management in the field of medicine from logistics and procurement to patient involvement. I believe that we should wait for the recommendations of that analysis so that no major reorganisation in the priority area is initiated without a solid professional foundation. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. On the other hand, the government is fully committed to finding appropriate solutions that can help reduce the cost of medicines.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111244	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111249	Thank you to the Minister for a speech I think wise and reflected. I would like to ask you about the last point raised by the Minister in relation to the work that has been undertaken and which stems from the agreement that the government has made with the regions on the economy, where it says that this analysis work must be done. There is not so much in the agreement, so I would like to hear from the Minister whether these considerations about priorities, which are known from other countries, are also part of that work or whether it is something else that needs to be done in the analysis work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111322	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111323	First of all, you have to hurry and sign and say thank you when you get praise, even from an edge that is not always the first to deliver it, namely from the Enhedslisten. But that it was a good speech I made, I would very much like to thank you for. In relation to the analysis work with the Danish Regions, I would like to say that we are currently discussing the terms of reference for this analysis work. When it is clear, I would very much like to send it to the Parliamentary Committee on Health and the Elderly. Does this mean that we should not also look at what we do elsewhere, in other countries? No, it does not, because from the government we are also concerned with mapping out the experiences of, for example. Sweden and Norway, but at the same time we would also like to work on the track of how we can try to ensure increased Nordic cooperation in this area. I would like to stress that this is not something that is easy and that we can put a stop to overnight. The countries certainly have different interests on this issue, and the willingness to engage in enhanced cooperation in the Nordic area also varies between countries. But that should not stop me from pushing, because I think that focusing on increased Nordic cooperation could be so constructive in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111435	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111437	I would just like to say that I look forward to seeing the mandate and discuss it in the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly with the Minister, because I think that will be very interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111446	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111447	I did not listen to any question coming, so I sign and say that I look forward to the same thing the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111457	Thank you. Perhaps I should just say that the small disturbance that we are going to have where we are being asked to meet in the Chamber at 1 p.m. 12:00 at a memorial is entirely planned. It's not like the system's gone crazy. Then it's mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111517	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign for parts of the Minister's speech, first of all, because I think that the Minister also recognizes that there may in fact be some scope for looking at bringing together some of the bodies that we then propose from the SF. Then we can discuss it. I very much agree that it is the Danish Medicines Agency and EMA that approve medicine in Denmark, but it still follows away from it, and that is also what the Minister acknowledges that there is a rather important function in KRIS and RADS etc. But leave that discussion alone, I think it will be a very nerdy discussion. However, the Minister has said both that the Minister is prepared to bring together some of these bodies, but at the same time also says that we should not just lump it all together. I also hear the Minister say that there is just one opening in relation to assembly, and there I would just like to hear the Minister: is the government prepared to make a report too, so that we can at least look at how we proceed with this? I also hear the Minister acknowledge that there are some challenges in relation to the prices of medicines, which are also reflected in the fact that Nordic cooperation has begun.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111620	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111622	I note that Enhedslisten signs for the whole and SF for parts of my speech. I guess you can barely make much more. In relation to whether there is an opening for constantly becoming wiser: Yes, there is. That is also why I do not deny in advance that we should look at the entire organisation we have in the field of medicine today. I would just draw your attention to the fact that there is, of course, a purpose for us to have the bodies we have in Denmark. One should also remember to rewind and look at what the background was actually for, for example, KRIS was created in its time. It was because there was a need, and that is why we should not throw out anything that works well with the bathing water, but we can at the same time consider whether we can be sharper in this area by considering it in a different way. I believe that this consideration must also be taken together with those responsible in this area, namely the regions of the country, which are currently responsible for KRIS and RADS and, of course, Amgros as a purchasing organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111725	Thank you. Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111728	I would like to sign for this, because I think it is a response, but I would also like to know whether it is not the case that the Minister can then promise here today in Parliament that the Minister will convene the regions and the rapporteurs of the various parties to discuss it here, because I think we are facing some very great challenges in relation to the rising prices of medicines. Then I agree very much with that, and I also think it is an important point that the Minister has made that the primary medical costs are then falling, but we have a challenge with expensive hospital medicine that we need to find solutions to. So will the Minister take the initiative for such a meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111759	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111802	I agree that we have a real challenge when we talk about hospital medicine and its costs. I would just like to appeal to the debate to be balanced and balanced as well. I think it sometimes sounds as if you are either in favour of a priority institute, or you think that all the doctors and nurses in the hospitals should be fired, because we cannot both at once. This is also about the will and ambition of the government to give priority to health. We have put forward a proposal for a Finance Act in which we propose to give health care a greater boost than what the Socialist People's Party founded when they supported the previous government. It is, of course, also the will to give priority to health. And this also means that we must constantly focus on how we can get as much health as possible for the money, and that, of course, also applies in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111848	Thank you. And then it's Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116111853	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the statement. I am very pleased that this discussion is being taken seriously, and I think we all agree that this is what is needed. In relation to KRIS, I would like to say that I agree with the Minister that KRIS is actually doing a very good job today and that they are doing what they need to do very well. It is interesting that the director of KRIS, Steen Werner Hansen himself, says that what he would like to see in relation to where he is today is that one has to deal with the price of medicine. And that is what we have always thought in the alternative is the challenge of the present system, namely that we must not deal with the relationship between price and effect when assessing the entry into service of new animal hospital medicines. The minister himself says that there is a lack of professional foundations, but we have a lot of votes, among others. Steen Werner Hansen himself, we have Danske Regionser, and we have the Medical Association, Medical Associations, a lot of hospital directors and other professionals, all of whom are out to say that we need to be able to balance the relationship between price and effect. So who's missing? What are the voices we need to hear?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112005	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112006	In relation to those who advocate that we should now set up a priority institute, I would say that I am so lacking in the voice that tells me what it is then for some patients in Denmark who are not going to have the medicine that we are offering them today in the future. I have never heard the alternative give any answer to that at all. Then I have to say that there are no legal challenges in involving the cost or cost-effectiveness of a medicine in the assessment of hospital medicine. There isn't. It is the regions that determine the level of service and they have chosen, KRIS and RADS, that they do not take a position on these elements in their assessments. It is therefore a choice that has been made out there, where you are responsible for it, respectively KRIS and RADS.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112057	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112059	[Sound emission]... I should like to ask: does this mean that if the regions want it, it is in the hands of the regions to give KRIS the mandate to look at the relationship between cost and effect when assessing whether they can use a new preparation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112121	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112122	I note that in the current legislation there are no legal challenges in including the price or cost-effectiveness of a medicinal product in the assessment of hospital medicine. It is the regions that, as I said before, determine the level of service, and it is they themselves who have chosen that KRIS and RADS do not take a position on the elements of their assessments. Having said that, I think it should be made clear once again that very often the debate sounds like the price does not matter at all when we take hospital medicine. That is not right either, because we are doing so today, and I think that should also be part of the debate on the question of a priority institute. On the part of the government, I would just like to reiterate that we want to be involved in discussing the whole issue of priorities, but this must be done on a proper and thorough basis, and that is why we have also now launched these analyses in cooperation with the regions of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112220	Thank you. Speaking time also applies to ministers. There are no more questions for the Minister, and then it is in the rapporteur's order, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116112235	Thank you. The Socialists do not support these two motions for resolutions on the creation of a priority institute. It is not because we do not want the area to be analysed and optimized on an ongoing basis by the Social Democrats, but the reason why we do not support it is precisely because we think that this analysis work and this optimization process have actually started. The Minister has explained what the content of the two motions for resolutions is, so I will not do that again. The Social Democrats' overall attitude to health care is, of course, that there must be free and equal access for all Danes, no matter where you live and no matter what you fail. And there can be no doubt that if you are a sick citizen in this country, you need the best treatment. We also have a very great responsibility here from the Danish Parliament to bear with the many skilled health professionals who work in our health care every day and rely on and work towards providing the best treatment and care to patients. The current situation with regard to expensive hospital medicine, which is the starting point for two motions for resolutions to set up a priority institute, is, of course, that over recent years there has been a tendency for the price of hospital medicine to increase, and here a link has been made between the price increase and the lack of capacity for the regions to maintain the staff employed in the hospital system. We in the Socialist Group believe that this is an unfair confusion between the conditions of the regions, and that is why we also want an analysis to be made of this area. The work on analysis now needs to be started is very good, and we think it is necessary. We also think it is good that it is built into the latest economic agreement. We believe that the mapping and presentation, as it were, of concrete proposals on how to do better in the future in order to ensure better governance and planning, is right. However, we also believe that this is one of the main reasons why we are not voting in favour of these two motions for resolutions. We must ensure that a thorough preparatory work is being carried out in order to find out what models we might have in the future, to ensure that there are deep reflections and that the consequences are, of course, very carefully assessed. What do we, on the part of the Social Democrats, want from our health services in this area? Yes, I would like to try to express that in some short sentences. We want the best treatment options to be provided for all patients. We want knowledge to be the basis for the decisions taken in this area. We want transparency in all processes and decisions towards the offer that our citizens must have. We want good supply contracts for health care, including in the case of expensive hospital medicines. In fact, we believe that we should be able to boast that we guarantee the right prices and the best prices. We want Danish patients to have quick access to new treatment options. We believe that this is part of the agreement in a country such as the Danish, a welfare state, where the Danes are actually happy to pay the high tax. We also want health care expenditure to be manageable, to the extent possible, so that there is such a high level of predictability in health expenditure and the costs incurred by the regions. However, we do not at first sight believe that a priority institution in which, as in other countries, human lives are valued is the right way to go. We believe that if medicines are approved, that is good medicine, then citizens should also be offered it, and it should not be the price that determines it. We have said in the past from the Socialist side that we believe that the situation we have seen in relation to the budgets of the regions, which has been reported out of all five regions, namely that they cannot make the budgets stick together because of increases in the price of expensive hospital medicines and that they have had to go out and warn the lay-off of staff, is an unfairness in relation to the staff and the reliability of our health care. That is why we have said that we would very much like there to be consideration of whether we can separate budgets, so that there are budgets which include expensive hospital medicine, and that these budgets are kept completely free from, for example, the operating budgets of staff. We have also stressed from the point of view of the Social Democrats that we can make an optimization of Nordic co-operation, where we have welfare states, countries that are similar, then it is sensible to look at it if possible and if it makes sense. We think that we should now work constructively in the committee work that lies ahead of us after the first reading here today. We think it would be a good thing if we could arrive at a draft report or a six-year report which clarifies what Parliament wants from the analysis undertaken by the Ministry of Health, the government and the five regions, which sets out some measuring points and shows how we, as politicians and health committees, should be involved and informed, and when we can expect some models to be available that we can look through for proposals and initiatives that can help ensure the necessary momentum and good governance in this area in the future. I hope we can get together on that politically. I believe that there must be a great deal of common position towards ensuring free and equal access to our health services, including in the case of expensive hospital medicine, and ensuring that it does not become a question of either or, in relation to whether you are getting the new, good medicine, the active medicine, or whether you risk a lack of hands to ensure treatment and care. So I hope that will be the starting point after this first reading, and we, at least from the Socialist side, will engage very constructively in trying to have such a report in this area, if that is what it will be, or a report contribution to the legislative proposal. With these arguments, I have explained why we in the Socialist Group do not support the two motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113033	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113040	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur now mentioned that the Socialists cannot support the proposal, including the report. Because you don't want to and I just appreciate human life. I think that is a rather stale expression, because that is not what this is all about. But since that is what the rapporteur himself says, it might be asked whether the rapporteur thinks that the priority that is being given today is the right one, because priority is being given every day today. With this question, I would point out that research shows that every time we spend money on expensive hospital medicine, which gives what is called a quality-adjusted year of life, it costs two quality-adjusted years of life elsewhere in the system. In Norway there are examples of saying no to expensive medicines, which would have cost six quality-adjusted years of life elsewhere in the system, and that is among other things. in the words of the former chairman of the Medical Society Peter Schwarz, typically the weak patients whom we are actually losing on the floor. So does the rapporteur think that priority is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113150	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113152	Thank you to the questioner for that. It is quite true that there is a great deal of priority in everyday life among health professionals. That's the way it is, and that's the way it's supposed to be. However, I would very much like us to give the opportunity that our health services should not go into a either- or in relation to being able to make use of the medicine, which I am stating is good, effective and approved. Therefore, I would very much like it to be an offer in our health services that health professionals, with a critical attitude to the issue, of course, and an in-depth dialogue with the patient and the relatives, will have a discussion on whether this medicine is the right one for the patient to accept. However, I believe that we have gone in the wrong direction if we start to say that this good medicine, the active medicine, the approved medicine should not be offered to patients because of the price. And that, of course, is what the analysis is about, namely to try to give models on how to narrow the cost, so that the preparations can still be given away to the right patients and at the right time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113317	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113319	It screams at the politicians' responsibility to make some of the difficult decisions that relate precisely to the fact that when the medicine is very expensive and, at the same time, the effect is very minimal, they want us to make the decision that this medicine does not make us available as a starting point. So I just have to get it right. Is that what the rapporteur is now saying? In Denmark a new medicine is offered which is very expensive, but where we know that the effect is very small, will the Socialists be prepared to join in saying that there is the relationship between price and effect simply too bad for us to buy it in?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113404	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113406	I simply believe that, rather than in the Chamber today, we must adopt certain models of analysis, and then we must take the political process. On the whole, however, I would like to say that what we in the Socialist Group would like to see is the existence of robust budgets, because there are robust budgets for both the medical and nursing staff in hospitals and robust budgets for the possibility of purchasing the medicines that are the good medicines for citizens either because it can be life-long or because it can be curative or because it can soothe the genes of one's illness, I believe that we have reached where I would like to go as a social democrat. There we have to say that we have actually managed to secure this, but we must not give medicines that are not effective. We should also not give medications where side effects outweigh the effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113505	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113511	Thank you. I think I'll start somewhere else. The rapporteur does not also recognise that, in view of the fact that we see some savings in the regions, such as the United Kingdom, Ireland and the United Kingdom. In these years, we have some challenges with expensive hospital medicines that may be better than what was, but perhaps marginally better, but many times more expensive than the other existing medicines that are on the market? Is that not precisely what presents a challenge in health care today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113546	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113549	We have a challenge and we have a challenge in that the cost of expensive hospital medicine has run up and down. It has therefore been very difficult to plan. That is what I think is quite unreasonable, and that is what I have said twice in my rapporteur's speech. We in the Socialist Group think this is unfair to patients, to the citizens as a whole, and it is also unfair to hospital staff, and it is also unfair to the five regional councils that we have set up to manage it here. That is why we hope that the work of analysis which is being carried out will produce a very good result and that it will have to give this optimisation which is a necessity. And as I have also made clear: I want the budgets to be as predictable as possible. And I would just like to say again that robust budgets are, of course, important in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113648	Thank you. Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113650	I am, in fact, pleased with the rapporteur's reply, and I would like to acknowledge that. However, I also think that we are facing a challenge today, when we are finding it difficult to begin to see how good the effects of individual products are today on the market. I would therefore really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will be involved in drawing up a report in committee which requires or encourages the Minister to enter into discussions with both the regions, but also with the parties of the Folketing on the basis of the analysis work being carried out, but also on the basis of the experience we know from a large number of countries already today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113733	Thank you. And then it's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113735	Thank you to the rapporteur for that question. That is exactly what I said at the end of my speech. I very much hope that we can politically stand together to make either a report text or a report text for this, which sets out both the political process, the Minister's involvement and orientation to us, and when it is that we can expect politically to see what models and recommendations are in this area. That is my wish, because, as I said at the outset, we in the Socialist Group want this to be continually optimized. It is a question of the patient's security and confidence in relation to the treatment they can receive when they become ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113822	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116113835	Thank you. Priority for health care can be very good reasoning. Care should always be taken to ensure that patients are offered the most effective treatment. Today, the work is largely carried out by the Council for the Use of Animal Hospital Medicine, in daily terms called the RADS, and the Coordination Council for the Use of Hospital Medicine, in daily terms called the KRIS. In the Danish People's Party we would like to look at how we can strengthen the work done today by RADS and KRIS for the benefit of Danish patients. We would also like to spread the idea of RADS and KRIS to other areas. For example: Today there is a great deal of disagreement as to whether musculoskeletal injury and disease are best treated with physiotherapy and similar treatment, or whether surgical procedures are the best treatment. It would be good for patients to assess these treatments centrally against each other and ensure that patients are treated according to the latest and best practice, just as is done in the RADS with medication. In the same way, we in the Danish People's Party have also previously sought similar initiatives in the field of diagnostics. For example, there are doubts as to whether the test used for tick bites is sufficient. There are examples of patients who have been rejected in the Danish healthcare system after having been tested with the ELISA test but who have later been tested abroad where the disease has been detected. Of course, that is not satisfactory. That is why we would very much like to enter into a dialogue on this motion for a resolution, although we are not sure that precisely the path indicated here is the right one to ensure the best treatment for citizens. It should be noted, however, that the proposal put forward by the Alternative, which also includes price as a criterion in the priority, does not find the support of the Danish People's Party. We do not want a society in which we risk that the best possible treatment is only an opportunity for those who can afford to pay for it themselves. The Danish health service is based on a principle of solidarity in which all sections of society have access to the treatment that may be required. That principle is important to hold on to for the Danish health care system. I should therefore like to say that the Danish People's Party is constructive in its approach to the motion for a resolution and looks forward to the committee's reading, in which we want a thorough analysis of the possibilities for ensuring the Danes the best possible treatment, but that we cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114122	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114127	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. It is of course interesting that the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party wants a health service based on solidarity and where everyone has equal access to healthcare. The former president of the Medical Society Peter Schwarz said last year that the rising cost of medicines is responsible for massive cuts and savings, which particularly affect the weak patient groups. When they do, it is precisely because, because of the increasing cost of medicines, we have to cut budgets every year, and those who are going to pay for it are typically the weak patient groups. So what is the rapporteur's position on this when we are not allowed to take the price into account? I would like to stress that it is not just the price we are talking about, it is the price/effect relationship. And when we do not take it into account, it will be able to go beyond exactly the weakest patient groups. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114224	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114225	I think it is a strong simplification of the health services to say: there is one account where there is now an increase, and the rest of the health services suffer. There are also other areas of health care where increased expenditure is seen. These could be rehousing or more cancer patients. It also puts pressure on the health service, so it is not possible to say that this alone is because we are getting new and better treatments, that there is pressure on the health service and that this is what makes the rest of the health service meet with the need for adjustments in order to make the area coherent. It's very simplistic, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114302	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114304	It is not my contention, I was saying, that this argument comes massively from several fronts: it comes from the Medical Association, it comes from medical societies, from the regions, from the hospital directors and the doctors and nurses. So there is a broad group of professionals screaming that in here at Christiansborg we dare look at the relationship between price and effect. So why is it that you don't listen? I don't understand. Why does the Danish People's Party not listen to the votes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114336	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114338	We are, of course, listening to everyone in the health sector who speaks. The health area is a core area for the Danish People's Party. However, as the Minister for Health also explained, the increases in the cost of hospital medicine have also been matched by a decrease in the cost of supplemental medicine. And in other areas, it can be said that this new and expensive hospital medicine saves health care money. We have, for example. new forms of hepatitis treatment, which have now gone from soothing to curative. Then health care should not later go out and cost expensive transplants of the supply or treatment of liver cancer, because new and expensive hospital medicine is so effective that we have gone from alleviating diseases to treating and curing diseases. So in this way it is not so clear that increased costs of hospital medicine are just an evil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114431	Thank you. And then it's sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114434	I just want to know whether the Danish People's Party views the two resolutions we are discussing here today differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114441	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114443	It is clear that the SF's motion for a resolution does not mention the word price, and in this way, of course, it is a step more in the right direction than the alternative's proposal. But we still think that there are some things that we are unsure about whether we think is the right way, among other things. this merger of institutions, i.e. whether that's what's needed. We're not sure about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114511	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114513	Thank you for that clarification, because I was just a little unsure whether you were in the same position with regard to the two proposals. So I am pleased with the clarification. Does this also mean that the Danish People's Party will help to see if we can make a report, in other words, in relation to looking at the further work, so that we will focus in the future on the fact that it is ultimately about getting the most health for the money? In conclusion, I very much agree with what the rapporteur said in his reply to the previous question: that we also need to make sure that completely new medicines, which may ultimately cure people, will, of course, have to be placed on the market in Denmark as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114546	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114548	Of course, we would really like to be involved in the work of ensuring that we are given priority, so that it is the best possible treatment for Danish patients. This is a priority which we are entirely behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114603	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116114615	Thank you for the floor. We are considering today the motions for resolutions B 19 by the SF and B 6 by the Alternative, both of which are proposals for a parliamentary resolution setting up a priority institute in the Danish health service. Both motions for resolutions point to the increase in the cost of medicines in the motion for a resolution. Health has always been a priority on the part of the Left, and it will also be forward-looking. However, I would like to start by stressing that we in the Left share the concerns with the authors of the proposals on the prices of medicines in the hospital sector. Fortunately, the latest reports show that the cost of medicines is stagnant. The government recently concluded an agreement with Danske Regions, which has just set aside 1 billion funds. kr. In the course of the economic negotiations, the region's expenditure on expensive hospital medicine in the last year was taken into account. The government has put forward its financial bill, giving priority to health by 2.4 billion. kr., and that's a significant boost. For the sake of good order, let me mention that there has been zero growth in the total cost of medicines in the regions from 2010 to 2013, and it is not until 2014 that we have seen an increase in expenditure which, as I pointed out earlier, now seems to be stagnating. The proposers point out that a priority institute will give citizens more equal access to health and a better quality of life. The Left wants a health service with free and equal access for all regardless of wallet. The experience gained from, inter alia, Norway and England, as the proposers point out, show me that a priority institute neither reduces inequality nor improves the quality of life of its citizens. So I do not share the starting points that the proposers of both the SF and the Alternative point to. In Norway and Sweden, where priority agencies exist, there are more examples of medicines being bought cheaper than in Denmark. But the reverse of the coin is, for example, that. Swedish cancer patients have to wait several years to get the optimal cancer medicine, while in Denmark we offer the medicine immediately. For us in the Left, it is important that Danish patients have access to the progress of medical science as soon as the medicine is approved. Let us stick to the premise that medicine is offered on the basis of medical judgement and that it is not the size of your purse that is crucial, because you cannot make a human life up to money. Implicit in the word priority is also an opt-out, and one might quite rightly ask: who should not have the approved and available medicine? The Danes still have that answer for good from both the SF and the Alternative. Having said that, it is of course essential that we always try to get the medicine at as good a price as possible. Today it is the Danish Medicines Agency which approves new medicines, while other bodies, for example. assess the placing in service. Motion for a resolution B 19 shows that the proposers want to reorganise the present structure in the field of medicine so as to create a new and unifying regulatory body. On the left side, we are not opposed to the fact that in the long term we can look at the way in which we have organized ourselves on the question of the use of medicines in Denmark, although there should be important considerations in terms of creating a mastodon, as the SF proposers point out, which may override some of the obvious advantages of the organisation that we know today. I mentioned earlier the government's agreement with Danske Regions, and in addition to the economic aspects, the agreement provides for the launching of an analysis work to identify the various aspects of the medicine area, from logistics to procurement to patient involvement. Similarly, the Minister for Health has taken the initiative to map out the experience gained in the field of medicine under the Nordic regime. We in the Left would like to wait for this analysis so that we can take a decision in the long term on the basis of as much information as possible. In this context, the Left cannot support the two motions for resolutions, but I understand from the Socialist rapporteur that we are prepared for a joint report, and we in the Left can support that. So I look forward to the continued work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115057	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115106	Thank you for that and thank you for the words of the rapporteur. I would just like to point out that it is true that there has been a decrease in the expected cost of expensive medicines here in 2015, but that the rapporteur believes that prices are stagnant, at least in direct contradiction with what the same article describes as the fall, namely that the trend for the coming years will be an increase in the cost of medicines, because new expensive medicines will continue to enter the market. It is Ulrik Lassen, who is chairman of the Danish Society for Clinical Oncology, who says so. So does the rapporteur agree with me that in the coming years we will continue to see a challenge in relation to rising pharmaceutical prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115154	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115155	It is quite true that in the years to come there will hopefully be many new medicines on the market, and new medicines are often expensive. But what you may also forget is that there are also many patents that expire, and that means that there will also be medicines that will be cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115216	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115217	[Sound emission]... patents in relation to the supplemental medicine are typically cheaper when they expire because you can make copies. It is much harder to make copies of the expensive hospital medicine because it is made from biological material. This is an aspect that we must not forget in this debate. I would like to ask one last question. The rapporteur says that the Left would like free and equal access to healthcare, and that it should not be the wallet that should determine whether the right treatment can be obtained. We fully agree with that, and that is why we are proposing the creation of a priority institute, that is, because it suggests, and that is what I also mentioned before Peter Schwarz of the medical societies has mentioned that those who are then given priority from today are the weak patients. Does the rapporteur recognise that, with the system we have today, it is the weak patients who are losing the game?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115305	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115306	For us, it is essential that we also listen to medical science. Everyone who, what to say, has a voice in the debate here, has to take a stand, and it is important that everyone is heard and that everyone is taken seriously. An analysis work has now been started to cover the entire area, both in Danish and also in the Nordic region. And when that analysis is available and completed, I am sure that together we can find a way to make a decision on an enlightened and objective basis, where you also listen to what medical science has to offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115343	Thank you. And then I think we're gonna take a short break here till 8:00. 12.00, so we can just get together here in the Assembly Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116115952	In memory of the victims in Paris, we are now holding a minute's silence to show solidarity. This is happening with the Danish people and at the same time with the peoples of the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120328	Let's finish this last round. It's Mrs. Jane Heitmann. There was just one question from Mr. Jonas Dahl to Mrs. Jane Heitmann. Sir. Jonas Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120345	Thank you. I would really like to return to what we were talking about before we had this minute's silence. It actually concerns... what's it called? I'm sorry, there's so much unrest in the Chamber. I would like to sign for what the rapporteur said about producing a report or a report in committee afterwards. However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur will also confirm that the work started by the Minister is also expected to be completed before the summer recess. This means that it could also be written in a report that we may be able to meet together with the Danish Parliament's parties before the summer holidays 2016 and see how we can proceed with this rather central discussion about expensive hospital medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120434	Thank you. I think the rapporteur was right to say that there was a little unrest in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120441	Thank you. I must be honest and say that I do not have the complete timetable for the analysis work initiated via Danske Regions, which is expected to be completed. Nor do I have the final timetable for the completion of the analysis work under the auspices of the Nordic countries there. But I have an immediate expectation that as soon as it is done, we can start work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120509	Sir. Jonas Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120510	I welcome the fact that the Left is also prepared to take a broad political debate on this issue. Because I really don't think there's so much party politics in this. What is at stake here is that we have to recognise that there are limited resources available, including for our health services, and that is why it is basically about how we use the funds in the best possible way for the benefit of patients. So I think the work the Minister has started is fine, but of course I am also interested in it from the SF to ensure that we also have a political discussion on this, so that it is not just something that will be closed with Danske Regions in connection with the summer's regional agreements. So will the rapporteur work to see how the parties of the Folketing can meet before making a final agreement with Danske Regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120556	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120556-2	Now that we have finished speaking here today, there will be committee work, and there I would urge that we discuss how we can move forward. And, as I have said before, we in the Left are prepared to continue working on a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120616	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten, as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116120624	Thank you. Before that, may I say that I have not signed all the Minister's speech. Although I gave a commendation, it is perhaps just as much to conclude that it was the whole speech in every single letter and word that I was behind. I don't. It's okay. First of all, I would like to thank both the SF and the Alternative for raising this debate on priorities in health care. After all, it has long been raging around in the health policy landscape, but it is only now entering the Parliamentary Chamber, and I think that is really, really wise and really healthy. The discussion fills the more and more out there, as at the beginning of 2015 we saw a sharp increase in the cost of hospital medicine. Subsequently, we saw that virtually all regions went out with comprehensive austerity plans for the current budget year, 2015, which set up cuts, layoffs and also hospital closures in some regions. And it comes on top of a health sector which is already under heavy pressure after many years of demands for constant efficiency. If we look back in time, we can see that when it comes to the development of pharmaceutical prices, it is not an isolated phenomenon this year; it is a development that has accelerated in recent years, and the forecasts for the future also indicate that it is a development that we will see continuing: even higher costs of medicine in the coming years. I think it is important to take part in this debate that on the part of the Enhedslisten we do not accept that the framework that is in force today for our health care should also be the framework that is in force in the future. There is a need for a massive supply of resources, both in order to provide a much needed and necessary boost to prevention, but also to ensure more time and more calm in the hospitals, where hands are actually missing in several places in our health services. I think it is a little absurd sometimes that we forget how we give priority in our society at all when we discuss priorities in health care. At the moment we are discussing, among other things, how the Folketing should spend 30 billion. kr. On fighter planes. I also think that it is a completely wrong priority when the government has set up to spend 6.5 billion. kr. on tax relief in its new proposal to the Finance Act. As I have calculated with a quick calculation, it corresponds to about 80%. of the medical expenses we are talking about here this year. So there is an opportunity to give our health services a much higher priority and thus avoid the current layoffs that we are seeing here and now, and the hospital closures that we are seeing here and now, if there is a political will to do so. This does not change the fact that we see a pharmaceutical industry which exploits the fact that they very often have a monopoly on a product and they use that monopoly to set a price, more or less as they like. And it is clear that when the public sector is dependent on the products that come from the industry and there is only one seller, then we also see that we are going to pay a huge overpriced price. We also have many examples of the effect of almost nothing new, but that the research on which it is based is highly questionable when an argument is made about it. Of course, this is not a wise way to spend the money. In the election campaign it came, for example. I think it was South Bank who figured it out that we see so much profit in the pharmaceutical industry that we can talk about supernormal profits, as we know from the oil industry. On average, 30% will be paid. of the turnover in the industry turned into profits, and for Novo, who, after all, lives in this country, it is as much as 42 per cent. These are huge profits, and that is because they are private monopolies. As far as I am concerned, the answer is not that as a society we are being taken hostage for this pricing policy by shutting down hospitals or guys' health care professionals for that matter. The answer is that we are going hard on it and saying that we will not pay an overpriced price, which will then be turned into huge profits in industry. The alternative to a better price for the pharmaceutical industry itself, we have suggested that we should look at the taxation that might exist of the extremely large profits. It could be that it would promote the will to negotiate prices. I also think that we should address the debate on the patent system itself. A month ago, I read a chronicle in Politiken. It was by professor and former director of the WHO, the World Health Organization, Steffen Groth, who called for a fight with the patent system in the field of medicine. He wrote and I quote: A new patent scheme could mean that, in the case of medicines, patents should only be granted against public and insurance companies and, of course, it refers to other countries. In return, it will have the right to buy the product at a reasonable price. It could also be a way to address this problem. I think it is a very good and important contribution to the debate that we remember that the patent system has not fallen from the sky, but is also under discussion. Both the SF and the Alternative propose that a solution to the pharmaceutical industry's monopoly could be a priority institute, as we know today from Norway and England, for example. The aim is that we get more knowledge about how effective new medicines really are, that is, that we generate knowledge ourselves, as opposed to relying only on the knowledge that comes from the industry, and that we then compare the effect with the price or with the cost before assessing whether we as a society should use the product. On the part of the Enhedslisten, I can say that we can see advantages in such a model, but we also think that the proposals raise a number of questions. I think that the obvious advantage of the proposals is that it will make the priorities more transparent, more open, more democratic than they are today. Today we see a clear priority or a distortion, whether you want to benefit new medicine, but to the detriment of those patients who need more care and care or other forms of treatment than medicine. When the cost of medicine grows, as we saw here in spring 2015, it has instead been the staff that was reduced. And that's where we can figure out which patient groups it is that lose. It's the elderly medical patients, it's patients in psychiatry, and it's patients who need conversation, for care, for training. So we see a bias away from care and from pills. That is not right, and that is why I agree that the way in which priority is being given today is not transparent and is not reasonable. When there is unlimited access to medicine, but strong restrictions on the other part, we see this relationship. Another advantage of a priority institute is, I think, that it will equip us better to negotiate with industry and thus avoid paying overpriced. It is very often emphasised in the debate that we often pay in expensive sentences for medicines that have virtually no new effect or maybe have no new effect at all. However, as I have said, this requires that we have experts at our disposal who can check the industry's documentation. I also think it would be right, very wise, if we involved our own health sector in generating knowledge even by making protocol experiments, for example. When we use new medicines, that is to say, simply examine: do we have the effect that the industry said we would have? The big questions for both resolutions, to which I think we are missing answers, are: when is the effect so small that it is worth paying for, and who is it that has to make the decision in concrete terms? And how do we relate to the fact that ethics cannot be made an objective parameter? When, for example, Is it written in the alternative resolution that we should weigh ethics, effects and costs, but how do we do that? That is what we need to learn more before we can move on. Then I also think it is worth asking whether it is reasonable that there may be patients who could benefit, or who could potentially benefit, from a treatment and who are paying the price for the problem for me to see that the problem arises by industry. That is why, as I have said, I think it is worth mentioning other ways, for example. taxation, e.g. the patent system, which could be possible solutions. We would very much like to discuss this further. I note that a trail has been set in motion in the Regional Agreement. As far as I am aware, they must come up with something that is stated in the January 2016 agreement at least. If you can make it, I don't know. The Minister stressed that a track has been set in motion under the auspices of the Nordic countries. I think that is very interesting too. After all, we in the Committee on Health have taken some initiatives and planned a study trip to visit the Norwegian Priority Institute. At any rate, I am very much looking forward to this in order to learn more about what is being done in concrete terms in Norway. Then I would say that in the Enhedslisten we have also launched a wide-ranging debate among our Regional Councils, in our Health Committee, in our medical network and among everyone else who cares about health. We're discussing it, not wild and bloody, but at least intense. And for both reasons, i.e. both the work under way in the Danish Parliament, but also the work under way in the Enhedslisten, it is too early for us to conclude exactly how this discussion is going to end. I therefore hope that, instead of concluding the discussion here today, we can continue it and hopefully arrive at a model for how we deal with the challenge addressed by both proposals and which I fully agree we have to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121648	Thank you. There is one thing for a brief comment, but before that, I have to tell you, for the record, that the M does not shine under the clocks around. It is a technique and one will try to correct it. I have the floor for a brief comment to make to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121707	Thank you. I just need to be absolutely sure what Enhedslisten's rapporteur thinks. In other words, if the two motions for resolutions are put to the vote, the Enhedslisten will vote yellow. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? That is one question. The second is that I hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur speak in favour of a priority institute being such a good idea, and the rapporteur mentions both England and Norway. And there have been examples of families who have been out of debt to afford expensive medicines that the prioritization institute had opted out of. Does Enhedslisten think it's a viable path that it's the wallet that decides if you can get the medicine that can cure perhaps your mother or your father or your child or sister or brother?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121755	If the proposals are put to the vote, yes, I think we will vote yellow. We have to see whether they are doing it or whether they will be completed in another way. It's not that important to me. I think that no matter what, this discussion will continue. It is true that I referred to England and Norway. That was because both resolutions do. I have not even referred to England or Norway in what we have put forward, and I think that if you are going to go down that track and look at, for example, England or Norway. to include costs, in relation to when we use medicine, then you have to find a Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121831	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121832	Well, it's implicit in prioritising that you choose something from. What, then, does the rapporteur think should be chosen from?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121843	I think it is really interesting to look at the relationship between effect and cost, but it is quite right, as the questioner has said, that there are also opt-outs in it. That is why it is absolutely crucial to set the limits, how to deal with these ethical questions, and that is what I think we lack some answers to. I think there are some things in what has been done in Norway that are very interesting, namely that a great deal of work has been done in the first place to discuss the priorities that are already taking place today, with consequences for citizens that we do not see, thereby taking a public, open debate on how we think the funds should be used. And I think that is an absolute minimum we can learn from Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121929	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116121943	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the two motions for resolutions setting up a priority institute. We cannot do that, although we recognise that there are challenges with rising prices for medicines and new treatments. However, it turns out that the increases are not quite as large as previously assumed. It is well known that the Danes are among the people in the world who pay the very highest taxes and taxes, and we are one of the countries with the most public employees. In this light, of course, there should be advice for medicines which have a significant and documented impact on survival and quality of life, and there should be the necessary professional staff. We do not want the price to be a decisive factor in rejecting new medicines for which professional arguments are favourable. That is not where we need to save. Where we have to take action is debureaucratising. We must abolish double registration; abolish registration, which no one uses for anything; develop more appropriate workflows; put out competition and use private suppliers proactively and not only as emergency solutions. We will be able to draw a great deal of money from these initiatives, and it will not cost any lives, ability or quality of life. As these two proposals have been presented, the alternative proposal B 6 will mean another public institution with additional public expenditure on administration. The Liberal Alliance would rather spend the money on patients than on administration. SF's proposal, B 19, calls for a merger of several existing bodies. This would seem to be an immediate improvement in efficiency, and I would not rule out the possibility of considering, in the long term, whether some bodies could usefully be merged. But as it says here, it doesn't add up. The authors suggest that the merger of existing bodies into a new priority institution should approve new medicines. But the Minister informs us that none of these existing bodies can approve new medicines, that is to say the bodies included in the motion for a resolution. If, on the other hand, SF believes that new medicines are being put into service, then I would not rule out the possibility that there might be some efficiency in such a proposal, but I do not have the background now to assess whether that is something in it. However, I would urge the government to take this up in connection with the analysis that the government will initiate together with Danske Regionser. I have sensed that today too that the Minister is actually going to ask for it. In addition, I can also see that the analysis envisaged will include considerations on logistics, procurement, patient involvement and international experience from Norway and Sweden. We look forward to the results of that work, and the Liberal Alliance therefore agrees with the government to await the recommendations of the planned analyses of the future handling of the area. However, if joint Nordic cooperation is not already included in the planned analysis, I would urge that it be included. This will increase the volume of medicines and thus make us a stronger negotiating party to pharmaceutical companies and other stakeholders. Consideration should also be given to the possibility of increased parallel imports of original products. An estimate by the Parallel importers' Association of Medicinal Products estimates that if the proportion of parallel-imported medicines on the hospital market were at the level of pharmacies, society would save a large three-digit million dollars a year on patent-protected medicines. I have arranged a meeting with Amgros to hear their version, and I would recommend that others do the same. It is clear that the palette is wide and that there are many other and far better opportunities to deal with rising medical costs than the creation of an expensive and troublesome priority institute to limit Danes' access to vital medicines.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122426	There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122434	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I think I would first like to clarify a misunderstanding: the alternative does not want a new body, but rather a merger of some of the existing bodies, without, in fact, having to cost extra resources. So there's a saving there for LA. Now the rapporteur mentioned that LA does not want to save on medicines, I was saying, or to say no to medicines, which have a proven effect. But what is LA's attitude to medicine, which turns out to have a very sparing, perhaps not existing, effect, and which is at the same time a very expensive medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122520	For me, it sounded as if the rapporteur was asking me how I feel about medicines that are expensive and that do not work. If that's true, of course, we shouldn't use that medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122536	Thank you. Another question: now the rapporteur mentioned the desire for Nordic cooperation, among other things. with Norway and Sweden on the purchase of medicines to push prices. Now, both in Norway and in Sweden, there is one priority body which actually already goes in and negotiates with the industry on the basis of among others. the price, so what makes the rapporteur think that Norway and/or Sweden will in any way be interested in cooperating with Denmark when we do not want to include the price as a parameter in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122610	I do not know how to cooperate in practical terms. What I am saying is that I am suggesting that, in the analysis that is planned, we should look at whether we could form a joint Nordic cooperation, because in that context we would then stand as a major buyer and thus be able to press the pharmaceutical industry better and thus perhaps raise better prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122636	The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122641	Thank you. My question is a bit on the same street as the previous one, because on the one hand I heard the rapporteur very categorically rejecting priority, but on the other hand I also heard a wording which I think sounded somewhat close to the fact that we, as a society, should be able to afford to give substantial priority to medicines. That word, significant, I think, is a little interesting, because I think we all agree with that. But implicitly there is also the fact that there is some medicine that is not so I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can imagine a situation where there are medications, the effect of which is not significant, but it is an improvement, but the effect is not significant but the price is high. What does the rapporteur think should be done in such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122723	There I think we already have both KRIS and RADS, and we have doctors who are professionally skilled in their field. I believe that there are qualified people to take a stand on those things already, without creating another institute, another new body that costs even more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122744	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122746	It is true that we have good people doing these assessments today, but when they have to make the assessments today, the price is not an element that must be included. So it will probably only be estimated here that the new medicinal product has a better effect than the previous one, but it will not be assessed whether the price is in line with that effect. Does the rapporteur not think it would be appropriate to see whether the effect is in line with the price that is paid for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122817	Yes, I believe so, and I believe that the bodies we already have do so today. We have both some who coordinate the use of hospital medicine, and we have some who draw up guidelines for the use of expensive medicines. So I think they are already here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122836	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116122852	Thank you. I think it is a little difficult just to shake this minute's silence in memory of the atrocities in France, but we must do exactly that, that we do not let ourselves be oppressed, but try to continue as usual and therefore my rapporteur's speech. In the Radical Left we want as much health as possible for the money. That is why we are in favour of priorities, but our main challenge with priority is not just that we lack priorities, but two things. We need 1) transparency and 2) knowledge. It's a bit of nonsense to say that you don't want to give priority or that you don't want to appreciate life, because we do that every day in our healthcare system. But this is happening very much behind closed doors, because who or what principles are behind the dismissal of nurses in the wards? Perhaps we could actually save more lives by spending a little more money on nurses and a little less on medication. We need to learn more about that. We in the Radical Left would like to take the lead in staying. We believe that a transparent, professional and inclusive approach to health priorities is needed. Firstly, the regions must include economic costs in the assessment of new treatments and new medicines. The radical members of the Regional Council are working for this, and I hope that this will be achieved by a broad majority at the next General Assembly. Secondly, we need more knowledge. In the Radical Left, we would like to see an independent knowledge centre which has the task of making medical technology assessments, both of medicine, as we know today from KRIS and RADS, but also of the effect of treatments in general, as the Danish People's Party also mentioned. It could be in the fields of surgery, prevention, personnel, screening, etc. Thirdly, we need transparency in the decisions to which we give priority. We want a national council with interest groups, laymen and politically appointed members to discuss and put an end to the general principles of priority. We simply lack a qualified debate on the principles on which we should give priority. Right now, our system is a bit of a darkroom where no ordinary citizen can see through, let alone follow, what decisions are taken on what basis. In order to overcome that uncertainty and distrust, all assessments must be open to the public. We have looked at the two motions for resolutions, both of which point to a priority institute. We like the alternative's proposal to take inspiration from other countries, and we like the SF's proposal as well as building on existing bodies, KRIS and RADS. In my view, however, both resolutions are somewhat unfinished. They are not concrete, and they lack what is most important for us Radicals: a solid knowledge centre that does not just look at medicine, as well as a strong popular and public anchoring of principles. I think it may also bear a little touch of the fact that sport has taken place on the part of the Alternative and the SF to come first by presenting each of their own motions for resolutions. I would rather try to achieve results by bringing together a broad majority in the Folketing to work further for knowledge behind and transparency in prioritising in the form of a common text. Because it's not about getting first, it's about getting longest.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116123238	Thank you to the rapporteur and I see no brief comments. The next speaker is Mette Abildgaard, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116123303	Thank you, and I'm sorry, we're not used to getting used to it this early, so I had to get used to it. In addition to sitting in the Danish Parliament, I also have the pleasure of still sitting on the Regional Council of the Capital Region. Here I have experienced the provision of savings catalogues that were so thick that they had to be delivered by tender, because they couldn't get into the mailbox at home. I have helped save hundreds of millions of dollars, and I can tell you that a lot of it has hurt. For a large part of the cost of health care goes to staff, and when savings are needed, it is extremely difficult to avoid redundancies, and this means that the staff already running heavily are set to sprint, time with the individual patient is reduced and the risk of errors is significantly increased. The violent austerity rounds have been related both to the additional activity we are experiencing in hospitals, but certainly also to the rising pharmaceutical prices that are at the heart of today's debate. As a Regional Council member, I have banded with parliamentary politicians so as not to take this problem seriously. I will not do that here from the platform today, but the Regional Council politicians are asking for solutions from Christiansborg, and we have a responsibility to deliver those solutions, otherwise we will leave our regional colleagues behind. But most importantly, we leave the staff and patients behind if we do not take responsibility on our shoulders, and we end up it's a little exaggerated, but still with supersickhouses where we have to let the last nurse hand over the massive drug consumption you have, and I don't think any of us are interested in that. We forget that when we have to fire doctors and nurses, it also costs lives. The value they deliver every day is indescribably great, and as well as saving the medication can have consequences, it also has consequences when we save on doctors and nurses. In the Conservative People's Party, we are not afraid to say it clearly: yes, priority must be given to medicine in the future and also more than we are doing today. And yes, we must be willing to assess whether the effect of the medicine is in line with the price we pay. This is our duty as politicians in a society where the distribution of scarce resources is one of our greatest tasks, and the medicine sector is, moreover, probably one of the only areas where such priorities are not being made today. To put the discussion in a little relief, let me give you one example. I come from a small Jutland village. There have been accidents on the road for several years and there was a local demand for a change path to reduce the risk of accidents and deaths. However, the response from the authorities was that resources had to be used where it was most appropriate where traffic regulation was most needed, and there was therefore other places where it was more needed than just on our road. From a local perspective, it was quite unfair and incomprehensible, especially when the accident occurred, for it happened. However, we need to insist that just as much as it can be difficult to prioritise where traffic regulation is to be made, because it has consequences when you choose a place from, it also has consequences if we politicians do not dare to prioritise when it comes to the consumption of medicines. We must dare to talk about this, although it may be unpopular, but in the end it will benefit both our healthcare and our patients. On the basis of what I have said so far, I understand perfectly well if you in this Chamber expect me now to give your wholehearted support to these two motions for resolutions. But that is not going to happen, and it is not because we disagree with the objective, namely more priority, but because we disagree with the way there. I was recently at an event with the Director of the Norwegian Priority Institute, where I also believe that one of the proposers, namely Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, attended and where one of the Director's main points was that a priority institute is completely impossible if there is no broad political support. He said, and I quote: a priority institution is only a viable and sustainable solution if there is broad political support. Quote out. So I would like to say that if we are to have a prioritization institute in Denmark, which we on the Conservative side in no way exclude, then we have to do it in a different way, where we sit down together and find a solution that we can get all the parties of the Danish Parliament to join. Otherwise, such a priority institution will forever be a battlefield for political teasing, discussion and fighting, and I do not think that will benefit our patients. That is why we are now looking forward to further discussions on this in committee, and I am also pleased with the statements made by the Minister for Health and the elderly in relation to the work that has already been started. I really think that Mrs Stine Brix and Mrs Lotte Rod were right to say it from up here when they said that the debate should not stop here, but that it should very much continue and that it is of course not about getting first, but about getting the longest. So we look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116123903	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to one of the proposers, and the first is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. I would point out that speaking time is actually up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116123920	Thank you. And thank you all for the very fine comments, I think, on this motion for a resolution. It is quite clear that there is no consensus on the form, but it is also very clear that there is agreement that we need to take this debate. It is true that I was at the meeting with Lars Vorland, director of the Norwegian Priority Institute. He could tell at the same meeting that in Norway 2.5 billion have been saved. kr. by setting up a priority institute, which has then been used elsewhere in the health service. And these are some of the things that we think are a great inspiration in relation to where we stand in Denmark today and where we are going. I would also very much like to acknowledge the contribution of Enhedslisten in looking at the patent system, because we are very interested in that too. We would certainly like to go that way with you too, because there is really, really much need for that. I don't see it as a either-or, but a boat-and. I would like to address what the Minister said at the beginning, which was about the fact that there is nothing wrong with the legislation when we talk about the purchase of expensive hospital medicines. This is of course interesting, because it was an information that I have not heard before, and it is certainly also information that we either do not have or do not take note of in our hospital departments and in the administrations of the regions, which are, of course, the ones who pay and have to pay the purse when buying expensive medicines. And in relation to that, I would like to quote Bent Hansen, who says in Today's Medicine that medical expenses are in fact one of the few areas where the relationship between costs and costs is not called into question, and that is the debate that we in the regions want to raise. So there is at least a need to discuss it in the regions. I do not know whether you are aware that you have the self-management right that the minister mentioned, but at least that is something that we must take into account in the subsequent discussion. I would also like to make a brief comment on the issue of the supplemental medicine, because it is true that the cost of the supplemental medicine has fallen, but there is a great difference between supplemental medicine, i.e. pharmacy medicine, and expensive hospital medicine. For the expensive hospital medicine is primarily made from biological material, i.e. simply from human and animal cells, and it is really hard to replicate. So when a patent expires, it is very difficult for a competing company to make a product that is a cheap copy, whereas it is very easy in the field of subsidies because it is about chemical substances. So it is just in order to also nuance the debate in the necessary way. These are two very different things, so I really do not expect us to see the same drop in the cost of hospital medicine that we have seen in relation to the medicines for which they are intended, and I think we should be aware of that. The alternative proposal, in its simplicity, is to introduce this priority institute, which we are proposing is made up of professionals and ordinary citizens who can help ensure a more transparent priority and a democratic distribution of the scarce resources that we have in health care. We propose a little like SF's proposal, but with few differences, that KRIS, RADS, IRF and the Medical Supplements Board be merged into this new body. Now we have had the debate today, and some of the speeches could almost get the idea that there is not already a priority in health care, that health services, like extraordinary ones, have unlimited resources. Of course, that is not the case. It is, however, a matter of priority in the health services, rather like the moon's backside: we cannot see it, but if we think very well about it, we know it is there, as well as we know that priorities are being set every day in our hospital wards. The resources in health care are, and have always been, limited, and they will continue to be, and therefore priority is not an option, but a condition. Many resources are being spent on medicines and treatments today, which are much more expensive than what we already had, but which in many cases have no effect at all on the vast majority of patients. And that is the medicine that we in the alternative would like to address in relation to asking: is that where we need a lot of our expenses? Unlike virtually all other countries, we usually compare ourselves to the former Norway, Sweden, Germany, England, but even as distant countries as Korea, Canada and Australia, we in Denmark will not look at the relationship between price and effect when buying new and expensive hospital medicine. Every day, they feel the consequences of this in our hospital wards, because the galloping cost of expensive medicine blows up budgets every year. We have seen several years in a row that budgets have had to be reopened in the middle of the year. Until recently, I was employed in the Capital Region and was subject to a re-opening of the 2015 budget precisely because of rising medical costs. Where we're going to save money, it's typical of staff and warm hands. It is obvious that when there are fewer doctors and nurses, while we are becoming more and more patients, and indeed we are, because we are becoming more and more elderly people, patients are suffering, just as it is obvious that patients are also being affected when the blank cheque for the pharmaceutical industry leads to savings in emergency care and medical cars, so that the citizen who, for example, is getting longer is getting worse. I'm gonna have a heart attack. It is certainly the case in North Jutland that emergency preparedness has been spared. As we have also talked about, it is in any case obvious outside these walls, but within the walls one can be a little in doubt whether we have realised how serious it really is. I think the debate today has pointed out that we are at least well aware of it, and then it is just the question of whether we agree on how to get there. For the debate here today illustrates very well that many at Christiansborg will not talk about it despite recommendations and input from the professional actors and those working in our hospital departments. Because, as I have said before, medical societies, the Medical Association, Danish Regions, doctors and nurses, hospital directors recommend that we look at the relationship between price and effect when we talk about expensive medicine and that we dare talk about priorities. And so far there has been a massive denial, one might say, of wanting to talk about it at Christiansborg, and I hope that this debate will certainly be an opportunity for us to start the necessary debate. I have already mentioned some of the consequences, but this is also due to the fact that the high cost of medicines is socially disadvantaged. As I mentioned earlier, and as I actually think is very serious and worrying, it is the case that there have been professionals promoting and saying that when we do not want to give priority to expensive medicines, there are some of the weak patients and the patients who do not have the spectacular diseases. We do not think this is a democratic or a transparent practice, and that is one of the things that we do. That is why we are proposing that a priority institute be set up which can also negotiate down the price of expensive medicines with the pharmaceutical industry. So when some of the rapporteurs are about to ask me who will be without medicine in the future, I would say that it is precisely the task of the priority institute to make recommendations on what is to be purchased and what is not to be purchased. But I could also appropriately return the question, because there is already a priority today and it hits patients extra hard elsewhere in the system. That priority is just undemocratic and it is opaque, and that is what we want to change. So what do the rapporteurs think? Who will do without today and in the future if we continue with the same model? Should it continue to be the people living in the outermost regions of Denmark who have to wait longer for the medical car, for example.? Or should it be the patient sent home because of overcrowding? Should it be the patient who waits in vain for doctors and nurses because staff resources have been cut so that there is no time to come in to patients? Or is it the patient who has to wait longer to go to the hospital and have outpatient treatment, as is the case today? That is why the question of a priority institute for the alternative, and for me in particular, is an enormously ethical issue. For the only ethically responsible and responsible thing that we, as politicians, can do in a society where the desires and needs exceed resources is to make it clear: what are our priorities, what do we choose for, and what do we choose from? This is ethically justifiable for both our patients and our healthcare professionals. I have been attacked several times in relation to ethics and have been shot in my shoes, that it is ethically irresponsible to want to look at the relationship between price and effect when talking about expensive medicine. But ethics isn't about us being able to give everyone what they want, it could be about if there were unlimited resources, but we live in a society where there are no unlimited resources. So there is ethics about something else; it is about transparency, and it is about making clear what decisions we are taking. As I have said, the lack of courage can be called to look at how, overall, we get the most and best health for the money, serious consequences because, as I have said, it causes cuts elsewhere in the system, which of course also costs lives and health. In fact, for each quality-adjusted year of life, as it is called QALY, which we win by purchasing and using expensive medicines, we lose two quality-adjusted years of life in two other places in the system. So that ratio is 1:2. And we do not know who is, precisely because the priorities today are opaque. So when we lose years of life elsewhere in the system, it is typically as a result of cuts due to the expensive medicine prices. Steen Werner Hansen, CEO of KRIS, said in an interview in the Oncological Journal that we cannot avoid the price and that it is only a question of when and which model to choose. That's what he said not long ago. In Norway, for example, people had... a very specific example, which Lars Vorland actually also mentioned at the meeting we had with him earlier this autumn. Here he said that Norway had rejected a preparation that had a life-long effect, but which was very questionable • a life-long effect that gave very short extra life-time. It would have been a choice to say no to this in Norway. The fact that you said no to it meant that you could save six years of life elsewhere in the system. So this ratio of 1:2 was as high as 1:6 in relation to this specific preparation. I spoke to Steen Werner Hansen from KRIS, and he also told me in a discussion we had this summer about Orkambi, which is a preparation for cystic fibrosis patients, where we also very much discussed whether we should buy it into Denmark. And that's what you're actually assessing right now. The interesting thing is here that Orkambi can provide an improved lung capacity for a few patients with cystic fibrosis of 2%. But what is not mentioned, and as the doctors know, is that you actually have to improve by 5% before you can even feel the improvement as a patient. So sometimes it's the number on paper we're looking at, and not real consequences for patients' lives. The debate about the prioritization institute is not about either buying new medicines or otherwise there is nothing because it has sometimes been presented and this is a necessary nuance of the debate. Leif Panduro Jensen, who is the centre director at the Finsen Centre at Rigshospitalet, says this, and now I quote: The problem is not that the medicine is too expensive if it is better for the patient. The problem is that we do not know if it is better and that in many cases it is not. It is said with a loud voice that we must be able to afford new medicines, we are a rich society, but one just forgets that the choice is not between new medicines or no treatment. It is new medicine or old medicine, and if there is only a small marginal effect on the new medicine and the cost of it may be 1⁄2 million. kr. per years, then it really is a discussion to take. Quote out. That is quite apt for where we stand in the alternative. That is our point quite clearly. It has always been necessary to give priority to this, as I have mentioned, when opportunities exceed the resource framework. That is why priority is not an option, it is a condition. And so it should also be with regard to medicine. Therefore, the alternative cannot immediately support the SF's proposal either, because here, as we read it, and it is a little unclear • will not include price as a parameter when we look at the purchase of expensive hospital medicine. The reality of health care is such that scarcity is a condition, and that can be mitigated by adding money. The government, you might say, has made up its mind that it has done so for 2016 because it has so far added more than 1 billion. kr., which is addressed to the rising cost of medicine. We'd like to sign for that. The question is: What about 2017? What about 2018? How about 2019? And what about 2020? We need to find a long-lasting model. The rapporteur's views on the resolution here today do not change the fact that Denmark needs a priority institute or, at least, a model of how we are going to give priority to expensive medicines. Firstly, it will provide a better distribution of health care resources; secondly, it will increase the transparency of health services; thirdly, because, in a situation where we do not have unlimited resources, it is ethically justifiable to patients and staff, that we set out clearly what we choose from and on, and fourthly, a priority institute, where we have to deal with prices, will make it possible to negotiate the price with the pharmaceutical industry. That is why I am sorry that there is no greater sensitivity to the priority institute, but I am glad that so many rapporteurs have decided that they want to continue working on this area. Then the time runs out, I see, so I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125421	Three comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125428	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that the choice is between new and old medicine. Is the rapporteur not of the opinion that Danish patients should, of course, benefit from new medicines as soon as they are available and can help a given patient against a given disease? The rapporteur then mentions cystic fibrosis. That really gives me the opportunity to ask: who is it that the rapporteur does not think should be given priority? Are those the little kids with cystic fibrosis? Is that the young mother with cervical cancer? Or is it the middle-aged gentleman with sclerosis? Who is it that should not be given available medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125516	Thank you. When Mrs Jane Heitmann asks that question, it almost sounds as if health care is not already a priority. There are plenty of people today who have to do without what they could get if there were unlimited resources. It is not my job to decide who should or who should not, but in line with many of the other rapporteurs who have been up here to speak today, I would like to say that this task must be extended to a body in which you have the right medical, health and ethical competences to decide how we should prioritise our health care. Secondly, I would like to say that I believe that the Danes should, in the broad sense, have access to the medicine which, as far as possible, benefits the Danish health service from a democratic, transparent perspective. And if we have medicines that prove to have very little effect and at the same time are very expensive, it may be that this is one of the areas where spending can be better spent elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125619	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125621	At any rate, I can see that the rapporteur and I have a vertical disagreement here. The rapporteur says here that the rapporteur wants the medicine which benefits the Danish health service. My starting point is the patient. I would like us to offer the medicines that benefit the patient, so here we have a fundamental disagreement. That's politics. The rapporteur continues to return to ethics as a crucial parameter. Now, for example, we have. The Committee on the Ethics Council here in the Folketing. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that it is very, very often, when we see publications from the committee, that we see that there is also disagreement in the Committee on the Ethical Council about what is right and what is wrong? And how does the rapporteur want to avoid this in a priority institution, where we want to make a decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125712	Thank you. That was a very good question. First of all, patients are, for me, part of our health care system. It is not just the staff. It's a really good question of ethics. What we are proposing is that the priority institute we would like to see set up should be made up of both professionals and ethics, but also of laymen, that is. ordinary citizens. It is a question of representing the ordinary Dane's view of justice. For that, then, one does not need to have an education in ethics or theology for the sake of the matter that many have in the Ethical Council. So we're gonna have to bring the ethics. We must also include the perspective of the ordinary citizen on democratic justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125758	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125804	Thank you. It is true that, if you value it as a criterion, you will certainly be able to get some price improvements on the patented medicine, which is the one that is a particular challenge at the moment in health care. But does the rapporteur not see the problem that arises when these patents expire and medicines should then be exposed to free competition? We've already defined once that we're going to pay x kroner for this effect. Where, then, is the pharmaceutical companies' incentive to reduce the price if we have already announced in advance that this effect is worth this price? How are we going to get better prices on that kind of medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125847	Firstly, I would say that every time a new product is put on the market, it is a new product that comes on the market. Then it may well be that the patent has expired, but it is a new product that we will then have to decide on. It may well be that there will be a review of the price. As I mentioned before, the challenge is that there are not very many copies of the medicine in the hospital area because they are so difficult to make. So it can be said that once a company has developed a preparation in that area, it is not so often that we see competing pharmaceutical companies come up with similar preparations. Another thing that I can breathe on the platform is one of the things that Mrs Stine Brix mentioned in her rapporteur's speech. You could also make a demand on the pharmaceutical industry. If they come and want to sell us a product, we could say: we would like to keep up with how it actually works. Then you actually do a continuous follow-up of evidence on the effect after it has been put into use, and then it may be that you have to go back and negotiate again. At least this is an idea that I think we could look at to push the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125954	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116125956	Thank you. Now it is the case that I sit as a board member in Amgros I/S, which is the company that buys medicine. If it is the case that there are not very many biosimilar products on the market, then I need to talk to the director about why we spend so much money on it. Why do we do this if this preparation doesn't seem to exist? The rapporteur also mentioned that there was a social imbalance in not having price as a priority. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that it is socially balanced that only the richest people in the country can afford the most effective medicines, whereas the economically most disadvantaged part of the population will not have access to the most effective medicines. Is it socially balanced?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130040	Thank you and thank you for asking that question, because I can also hear that there were some misunderstandings here today. After all, we are by no means in favour of the individual patient finding the wallet rather than paying for his treatment. On the contrary, we are in favour of the fact that, to the extent that the relationship between the price and the effect of a preparation is very, very bad, we must pay attention to existing products, which are actually just as good. Then it is not a question of either receiving treatment or not receiving any treatment at all. This is about: should we buy the new medicine, which has a very small effect, or should we stick to what we already have now? There we would say that it is a necessary discussion to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130126	The next question is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130134	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there will not be as much savings to be made on parallel imports of hospital medicines as there are on pharmacists' medicines. I think it was said that it is because it is harder to copy hospital medicine after patent expiry. But what I am talking about is parallel imports of original products. These are not counterfeit medicines, they are not products whose patents have expired. For example: Abacus sells a lot of expensive cancer medicine, sclerosis medicine and medicines to treat hepatitis abroad. This is among other things. These expensive treatment products for the treatment of cancer, arthritis and sclerosis, which represent a very large proportion of the total cost of medicines. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130229	I just need the question one more time to understand exactly what is being asked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130236	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130241	The question is: what the rapporteur says is that parallel imports of pharmaceutical products cannot be spared as much as they can on the import of hospital medicine. The rapporteur's argument is that it is because it is harder to copy those products once their patent has expired. What I am talking about is parallel imports of products whose patent has not expired and which are not counterfeit products. In other words, parallel imports of original products. It is possible to sell to other countries, so why not in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130322	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130325	Thank you. That's a good question. I have spoken to a number of pharmaceutical companies which produce expensive hospital medicines, including: Roche. What they tell me is that there is not a very large competing market. The questioner then says that there is and that they are selling. Of course, I have no problem looking at it too. We have to push the industry on all the leads and edges that we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130353	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have to remind you that we don't use the puppet here in the Folketing. This happened a few times while the rapporteur spoke, so I have to tighten that up. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130403	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur has quoted a great many in his rapporteur's speech, both organisations and individuals. However, the rapporteur also says that patients are part of health care. I think the rapporteur needs to say what the umbrella organisation's attitude is to a priority institute.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130430	I'd like to say that. Danish Patients are opposed to this. After all, Danish patients are an umbrella organisation for a number of patient organisations, 17 patient organisations, and I believe we are heading for 18. I've been meeting with Danske Patients about this. Danish Patients do not want us to have a prioritization institute in Denmark. I would like to add to that that I think it is important to keep in mind that Danske Patients are not a direct patient body, but a body that represents patient organisations. It is therefore a collection of patient organisations, and we all know that patients' organisations, of course, also have political interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130515	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130516	I want to thank you for your answer. As the Social Democrats' health rapporteur, I think that Danske Patients is a fantastic organisation which contains almost all patient organisations in Denmark. They are both large and small, and they have among other things. organisations for the rare diagnoses below them, for which they are spokespersons. I am very pleased that the rapporteur says that Danske Patients, in other words those for whom the rapporteur also says they are part of the Danish healthcare system, say no to a priority institute for which the rapporteur is a spokesperson. I would like to ask the rapporteur another question. It is about the biological preparations, which are very expensive. Is it not true that Amgros alone, on one preparation, where a bio-simultaneous product has now been introduced, actually saves 200 million? kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130611	I haven't read that myself. That is certainly correct when the questioner mentions it. I think this is about the preparation that has actually led to the fall we have seen in the cost of medicines this autumn. So that's correct. I am certainly not opposed to saving by means of bio-similar products if and when we can and if and when they have the necessary effect. It is just part of a global priority in the field of health, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130640	No one else has signed up for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution B 19. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116130650	Thank you for that, President. In Denmark we spend a lot of money on health care. We do this because we have a welfare society where we want to take care of those who need it. This applies to the elders who need care lately; it applies to the pregnant women on maternity leave, even if the government has chosen to save them; and it also applies to those who have to go through long courses of treatment, for example. for cancer, or courses that require hard and repressive medications with intense side effects. All of them must have the necessary care and treatment and, of course, also the necessary medicine. But it is precisely medicine that costs society more and more money. In fact, better and more effective treatment methods are being developed, which are also more expensive and more complicated, and good for it. In this country, no account is taken of the cost of hospital medicine being used. This means that only the effect of the medicine is looked at to assess whether it should be used. It is therefore also expected that the cost of medicine in hospitals will rise again this year, as well as increased in the years before. At the same time, it is becoming increasingly difficult to see whether one or the other type of medicine from one manufacturer or another is the most effective treatment of one particular disease at present. Here the pharmaceutical industry has had an extremely strong influence and it has almost come to monopoly-like conditions in a number of areas. The sale of medicines often has nothing to do with production or, for that matter, research and development costs on a product. Instead, the price has been set solely according to the willingness of society to pay. This is precisely where we need to take action, because in this vital area, it is vital that we do not let commercial interests exceed the interests of society and the safety of patients. We must and must put an end to excessive overpayment of the pharmaceutical industry, nor must pharmaceutical prices swallow the money spent on hot hands and care. If all new treatment is to be given a price that goes straight to the pain limit of society's willingness to pay, then there will be a time when we have to stop, because that is all we can afford. Health is important to us, and that is also why it is incredibly difficult for us politicians to say no when we hear stories about sick people who should have the opportunity to receive one or the other effective treatment against one or the other disease with one or the other medicine, especially when the health authorities have approved the marketing of the product. This also means that, unfortunately, a great deal of money is sometimes spent on medicines, and sometimes one can rightly ask oneself whether the effect is the right one, and one must also ask oneself what the priorities are and whether this is where we get the most health for the money. It's the reality in the hospitals. While professional staff are being fired and well-tested and cheaper treatments are being spared, they are forced to use the new expensive treatment methods, new hospital medicine, which do not always have the proven effect, which may correspond to the higher price compared to the product used yesterday. It easily becomes the screw without end, also because it is very difficult to see when the screw stops. In SF, therefore, we would like to see more visibility and direct priority for medicines, so that you look at both the price and the effect before deciding which medicines to use. That is why we need an independent priority institute, bringing together the professional skills that are already out there. The Prioritization Institute must carry out analyses that take both price and effect into account and in this way advise politicians and health authorities, so that we have as much health as possible for the money, and so that we are stronger in negotiating with the pharmaceutical companies. You can do that, for example. do by merging what is popularly called KRIS, RADS, Amgros and IRF. I'd like to come up with the long versions when we have some time. It is therefore the Coordination Council for the deployment of hospital medicine, KRIS, and the Council for the Use of Animal Hospital Medicine, RADS, and the regional pharmaceutical organisation Amgros and, finally, the IRF, which is responsible for the Institute for Rational Pharmacotherapy. Technically, of course, it requires thorough consideration, and that is also why it is important to pool expertise in fewer places than it is today. I think it was one of the rapporteurs who said earlier this day that we would like to be more efficient, but that priority would not necessarily be given. I think these two things are connected. I believe that we can both increase efficiency by bringing together some of these bodies and giving priority to them, because in the end this means that we will achieve priority for the benefit of consumers, who will ultimately have some better products made available, and we can treat more citizens who actually need treatment. But it is also important that we find Danish solutions that support the development and research and production taking place in Denmark. We should not just copy the examples that we know from the Norwegian model or, for example, from the Norwegian model. from the British NCIE model. In fact, I believe that there are weaknesses in both the NICE and the Norwegian model. Because it must be professional assessments and not just mechanical analyses that determine whether people should be treated, and we must also have a model which, of course, reflects the market situation we have in Denmark, where we have a large and strong pharmaceutical industry, which also has an interest in marketing their products - yes, of course - and that is also good for the Danish economy, but it must of course be done in such a way as to ensure that the quality is high. But that is also why it is absolutely crucial that we do something, because we need to be better at giving priority to health as well. We cannot afford to pay soaring amounts for perhaps dubious products. We cannot be aware of this with regard to those citizens who, as a consequence, do not receive the necessary treatment. And the reality is, unfortunately, that we cannot afford everything. We hear this from nurses, from doctors and from managements in the country's hospitals, who every day try to make the tight budgets go up in a higher unit. They suffer, among other things. because of the lack of political priorities and because Christiansborg dares not relate to priorities. This helps to reduce the conditions for many patient groups, especially weak groups such as elderly medical or surgical patients, who do not necessarily have access to the large media sea, which may ultimately actually make you get the treatment you want. Then I think it's important to get one thing straight. Because the point is not that we are now just going to have to give priority to our own priorities. No, priority is already being given to health care throughout the world today. The cost of medicine is just not part of that priority. It is, in one way or another, somewhat protected by the political side, which is why it is also an extremely important discussion, and therefore the priority institute for us in the SF is also part of the solution. It is vital, for all things in the world, that we put an end to the overpayment that may be made to the pharmaceutical industry, but also, I think, the monopoly-like conditions we have seen in several areas. We owe this to the citizens, because ultimately it is their money that ends up in the hands of the major pharmaceutical producers, and perhaps we could have received even more and better treatment for far more Danes. That is why I think that there is also a responsibility on our shoulders as politicians, and we have to deal with that. We need to get our heads out of the sand, and we need to take responsibility for the priority that is already being given to health care. Then I would just like to conclude here with a few comments on the comments that have fallen during the debate. I think there were many things that the Minister may have escaped a little bit, but I would actually like to acknowledge that the Minister is after all aware that there are some challenges in this area, and I think that is the case with all the rapporteurs today. There is recognition of the fact that we have a problem in health care and there is a priority, not least of the expensive hospital medicine, which we must at least discuss. We can, of course, relate to the fact that we need to take the discussion, and that is why I would also like to acknowledge what the Minister for Health said today that dialogue has now been held in the Nordic countries. Then we'll see what that translates into. However, the regional agreement, which was signed in August, has also been addressed, which actually opened the debate. I would have liked us to have even more political debate on this, but I also listened to the Minister's willingness to take political discussions once the work on the regions has been completed in the course of the next year, and I would like to sign for that. The Socialists also said that we would like to continue the work but did not really want to take a position on it. That is something that must be respected, but I should like to note that, after all, they want to present a report or a report, and we would like to include the work of the SF in this. I think there may be a broad interest in producing a report or a report which basically includes all the parties of the Folketing, as I have heard the debate today. Then there were a number of other comments. I just want to dive into a couple of separates. I would like to acknowledge the praise that came from the Enhedslisten for the need for a debate. I think this is a necessary debate, and I think that is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said. I would also like to sign with the Conservative rapporteur. Perhaps it is the past of our common region that is straining us, but I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur agreed that we must also make political priorities on the part of Christiansborg. We cannot simply wipe off the responsibility of individual hospital management or regional politicians, and that is why it is perhaps a very good example that those of us who have been in the regions in the past may agree that there is a problem we need to address. So I'd like to sign for that. I also heard it as if the Conservatives were willing to enter into the concrete discussions on finding a common text that could bring together the parties of the Danish Parliament. I think we are pulling the same hammer. With this, I would like to thank you for both the good debate and, I hope, also the constructive solutions that we can look forward to together when we are going to deal with the proposal further in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131718	For the time being, a single person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131723	Thank you. I am rather surprised that the rapporteur has problematized the fact that doctors are forced to use the latest methods of treatment. I think that was the choice of words used by the rapporteur. I would really like to ask the rapporteur: is the rapporteur not confident that, on the basis of a medical assessment, doctors are always able to choose the right treatment for the patient?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131752	Yes, but I get worried when I hear from a lot of doctors who just point out that it is a problem that when they have to make their medical assessment, they have to look at how much the department has left on the bottom line when they have given this treatment. I do not think it is right that we should see discrimination in one region from one department to another, depending on what is left on the bottom line of each hospital department. That is why I think it is actually a political responsibility that we have to take a stand on, because we end up discriminated against people, depending on whether they have the resources to beat the table with the doctors, depending on whether the budget of each department looks reasonable at the end of the month. In fact, I do not think that is fair. Therefore, I believe that the responsibility should be very much on our shoulders in here at Christiansborg. If we do not make the priorities, we will push it away and then it will be in the hands of the individual doctor. The question is whether it gives equality to the law. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131846	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131849	Thank you. I fully support the rapporteur's view that we should discriminate. He himself said in the rapporteur's speech that, at some point, we have to stop. I am certainly pleased that, contrary to the alternative here, the rapporteur is ready to take a political decision. But then I can ask, just as I asked the rapporteur for the alternative: who should not be offered medicines? Is it the baby with cystic fibrosis, is it the young mother with cervical cancer, or is it the middle-aged gentleman with sclerosis? Who is not to be offered medicines?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131922	One might ask, rhetorically, who is not getting the treatment they could actually have benefited from today? I think the problem is that when you live in such a shift of responsibility, which I think is a little what the rapporteur is into, it ends up with that when we do not give priority to something. So I actually think that we have to make a priority, and then it should be the products that have the least effect that we are sorting out, because it will benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116131957	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor at all, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116132016	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 November 2015. Mr President, I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Kenneth Kristensen Berth to give a reason for the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116132045	Thank you. On 3 December 2015, the Danes will be required to refer to the referendum on the abolition of the reservation of law and the endorsement of a so-called electoral system, in which the Danish Parliament, in practice the European Committee of the Regions, will be authorised to surrender sovereignty in the whole area of law, asylum and aliens. On Thursday, during the third reading of L 29, we had one of the myths with which the jalots have toured, namely that the 'no' party plan for a limited electoral system was not possible. On that occasion, the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirmed the Minister for Justice's answer to question 21, which states that there is certainly an opportunity to confine itself to surrendering sovereignty in relation to Europol. Today, we are going to discuss one of the other myths that the yes-party has launched up to the vote on 3 December: the so-called guarantee by the Social Democrats, the Left and the Conservatives that asylum and immigration policy cannot be handed over to the European Union without a separate referendum. The government has made great efforts to try to make this guarantee appear robust, and it has even set itself up in a strange way as to propose technical amendments to the bill in order to be able to obtain an alibi in order to write forward this so-called guarantee. However, as most people have studied in law studies, legal remarks cannot be regarded as binding or binding on the legislator. That is why it is so strange that the government and two of the 'yes' parties have had such a house to put their musketeered into the proposal when it does not matter anyway. Nor does anyone say that, in 20 to 30 years' time, the Folketing will necessarily look the same as it does today. It may be that the Left is the size of the Conservatives today and that the Social Democracy is the size of the alternative. We do not know, and then such a guarantee is not worth much. That is why we must adhere to the principle of law. And the law is so simple: a majority of the people after a yes on 3 December have access to ship all or part of Denmark's asylum and immigration policy to the EU. However, I look forward to today's debate, which I hope will give the Danes greater clarity as to what kind of authority it is, in the event of a yes on 3 December, to give a general majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116132303	Thank you to the rapporteur for the explanatory statement, and to the answer it is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116132326	I believe that the questioners are aware of what the government can tell us about Denmark's future prospects for pursuing an independent asylum, refugee and alien policy following the possible lifting of the legal reservation on 3 December 2015, where hopefully we will replace it with an optional system. Because this is an element which has certainly not been absent from the debate. First of all, I have to make it clear once again that it is wrong for the legal reservation to be lifted by a yes on 3 December. That is not the case. On the other hand, the reservation is converted into an opt-in system. Unlike today, we will be able to decide for ourselves whether or not to take part in a legislative act in the field of JHA. The legal reservation consists, but in a smarter version that allows Denmark to handpick exactly the things we have an interest in. In this way, it will be possible to continue in Europol while remaining outside the EU's cooperation on asylum and immigration. I have therefore also answered the question put by the honourable Member about Denmark's future prospects for pursuing an independent asylum and immigration policy. The answer is that Danish immigration policy must continue to be established in Denmark. That answer cannot surprise the questioner, because it is clear from the political agreement that Danish immigration policy must continue to be established in Denmark. We have said this over and over again, not later than last week, when the Foreign Minister from the Chair presented the amendment he has tabled to the draft law on the transformation of the legal reserve into an electoral system which was adopted last Thursday. Once again, it was stated that the vote on 3 December is not about asylum and immigration. It was also reiterated that any future choice of acts in the field of asylum and immigration requires agreement among the parties to the agreement. And it was stated that the Left, the Social Democrats and the Conservative People's Party will not lift their veto without a referendum on the issue first. The outcome of such a referendum will, of course, be respected. Then it's not anymore. Denmark's ability to pursue an independent asylum, alien and refugee policy does not change by a 'yes' to transforming the reservation of law into an opt-in system. A 'yes', on the other hand, will mean that, as the only country in the European Union, apart from Britain and Ireland, we are free to choose which parts of judicial cooperation we wish to participate in, while remaining outside the common asylum and immigration policy. It seems the government and a broad majority in the Folketing is the best solution for Denmark. It is strange that the Danish People's Party, which often argues that Denmark should do as Britain does in the European Union, does not want the British scheme, an arrangement that the EU-sceptic Britons otherwise welcome and avail themselves of. Let me remind you, then, that we have made it clear what you will get if you vote yes on 3 December. Conversely, it seems to me unclear what you will get if you vote no. Fourteen days ago, we had the first reading of the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party which would oblige the government to negotiate a parallel agreement on Europol. I can say today what I said there: a parallel agreement is not a good solution for Denmark, and the Danish People's Party forgets that it cannot be asked for a parallel agreement on something that does not yet exist. The Danish People's Party has also recognised that a parallel agreement may not be as easy to get as one would otherwise like to give the impression. So plan B for Europol is a new referendum only to elect Europol. But we cannot do that, because Schengen automatically follows with it. And it is difficult, if not impossible, for anyone other than the 'no' side to imagine that all this could be in place before Denmark has to leave Europol when the new regulation is adopted next year. A yes on 3 December is the only guarantee that Denmark will become a full member of Europol. But the vote is not just about that. We also want to opt for 22 acts, which include: is important for the competitiveness of Danish companies and the safety of consumers. I have yet to hear a single argument against us being involved in these areas. The Danish People's Party imagines that we should then also have a parallel agreement on for example. the account protection regulation and the Small Claims Regulation? And what about the bankruptcy regulation on which we have already been refused a parallel agreement? It remains to be seen that the referendum on 3 December does not alter Denmark's ability to pursue an independent asylum and immigration policy. But a yes on 3 December will give Denmark free choice in the area of justice and home affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116132800	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116132819	There is room for more people in the Social Democratic Party if you have the right attitudes. The Social Democratic Party considers it crucial that Danish immigration and asylum policy is established here in Denmark by the Danish Parliament. This is also the reason why this was the starting point for the agreement on the reservation of rights from the outset. There is no change in the fact that our immigration and asylum policies are being defined at home. To make it quite clear: then immigration and asylum policy are not part of what we are voting on on on 3 December. We are happy to discuss immigration and integration policy, including here in the Folketing, but that has nothing to do with the vote on 3 December. It is in the agreement, it is in the legislative notes, and that is the clear position of the Social Democratic Party. In all tranquillity I must note that it should have gradually also gone in with even the Danish People's Party, which has repeatedly tried to problematize it. Every time the Danish People's Party has received the same clear answer that I will also give here today to the question: Denmark will in future be able to conduct our own immigration and asylum policies completely independently. This will not change after 3 December if we have a 'yes' to the electoral system. In those words, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Left, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that on 10 December 2014 the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party entered into the political agreement on Denmark in Europol. Paragraph 3 of the agreement states that Danish immigration policy must continue to be established in Denmark. Paragraph 5 of the agreement also states that future legislative choices on asylum and immigration require agreement among the parties to the agreement. The Danish Parliament also notes that it is clear from the observations made in the Act on the transformation of the reservation of law into an electoral system that the Left, the Social Democrats and the Conservative People's Party have indicated that this is a prerequisite for the lifting of their veto, cf. Paragraph 5 of the political agreement provides for a referendum prior to such a decision. The consequence of this is that the lifting of the veto requires a prior referendum, the outcome of which will be respected. • V (6). • V (6). •
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133043	The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. A few Members have asked to speak to Mrs Trine Bramssen. I regret that too, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth and say that it was he who should have spoken before. So we take it in a slightly different order. But the first to speak in the rapporteur's series is, on the other hand, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133101	Thank you. It is also Monday, and we are not used to being here on Monday, so it may be that it should therefore be a little different. I will not hold the President against this. I would just like to ask the rapporteur very briefly whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that the guarantee provided is not legally valid.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133122	In fact, I believe that the Minister for Justice has just answered that particular question, but I would like to repeat that it is clear in the legislative notes that the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democrats and the Left want a referendum; in addition, there is a politically binding agreement. Then I know that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party threatened that the Social Democrats would become small and the same thing the Left would become, and I assume that the rapporteur then dreams that the Danish People's Party will take over the whole parliament. But historically, there is nothing to indicate that it is going that way. We have a strong democracy in Denmark, a democracy that we salute and which is one of the most powerful in ensuring that such agreements are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133204	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133205	Nor do I think there were so many in the Conservative People's Party who in 1984 had dreamed that the Conservative Party was the size of the Conservatives today. However, I would just like to ask again: is the rapporteur aware that it is almost on page 1 of any legal basis that it is the case that legislative remarks are not binding or binding on the legislator in themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133231	You know, there's a reason why you write legal notes. It is, of course, because it has an impact on that bill, but it has to adopt it. Otherwise, there was no reason to write them. The second part, which I would like to repeat, concerns the political agreements and, as has happened repeatedly, especially when there are so many parties behind it, as is the case with this draft law, it is one of the most powerful things that can be achieved in Danish politics. Agreements that are so broad last for a long time, whereas the legal text can be changed just by a simple majority, that is correct, but such broad agreements are one of the strongest things we have in a democracy; we must be proud of that, we must pay tribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133307	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133309	Thank you. Now I was surprised that it was a Socialist who stood on the platform, so perhaps I wasn't listening. But are all the parties to the agreement behind the proposal for adoption that is being put forward here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133326	It is true that the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten did not hear SF mentioned, but it is about the fact that SF did not report back on it. So I will not take them as income for it, but I will contact the SF as soon as possible and I am convinced that they will support this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133344	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133345	Does the Socialist rapporteur think that in the course of the negotiations, before we conclude them, we will be told whether the parties to the agreement are behind this proposal together or whether there are differences between the parties to the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133400	I cannot imagine in my wildest imagination that the SF should not support this proposal for adoption, but I think the most correct thing is to get a commitment before I start reading their name up on a proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133413	No one else has asked to speak too briefly on Mrs Trine Bramssen. The next in a series of speakers is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133422	Thank you. This whether or not the Socialist People's Party is in fact a good question, because it depends on whether you should take the posters set up around for good goods, but leave it at that. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for the confidence in the rapporteur's intellect. I am really very pleased about that. But I also believe that, after all, we can reach as far as agreeing that the system of opt-in is at least something other than a reservation. It has a legal implication other than that of maintaining the reservation of the law. Then I must also inform the Minister for Justice that I do not really have a great deal of mistrust that the current government will transfer competence in the area of asylum and aliens to the European Union. After all, the problem is future governments, a future Parliament, about which we basically cannot know anything. We have no idea how the electorate's path will be forward-looking, and the problem here is that once sovereignty has been given to the European Union, it cannot be restored. But I also think it seems as if there is a little disagreement to trace between the yes parties in relation to this issue. Because there are some yes-party parties who want us to agree, and then there are some yes-party parties who want a referendum before we can give up sovereignty in the area of asylum and aliens, and then there are some who will not commit themselves to anything at all. It may seem a little difficult to find out exactly what it really is that people are looking forward to in this area. But I really believe that one of the major issues that the audience is left with after hearing the Minister for Justice is the question of what foreign policy is really about. In other words, if you read the original agreement on which the vote was based, as we are going to do, then you can see that there is talk of the Treaty, about the functioning of the European Union, Articles 78 and 79. It must then be assumed that it is the case that, if this is the case, matters which affect asylum and immigration policy and which are adopted on a different basis from Articles 78 and 79, this political guarantee does not apply. It is of course interesting that the Commission has announced that the Dublin Regulation will be linked to the permanent redistribution mechanism of asylum seekers. The Social Democrats, the Left and the Conservatives then write in their comments in the report: the parties want to elect the Dublin III regulation and the Eurodac regulation. The election of these acts will not be subject to the condition of V, S and KF to hold a referendum after the transition to the electoral system. However, it is qualified by the fact that the parties continue to write: "Adopting new acts which go significantly further than the purpose of the Dublin III Regulation and the Eurodac Regulation today will be subject to the condition. Then, of course, the question is what the word essentially covers. That could really mean anything. However, it is a bit strange that the parties to the agreement have found the opportunity to make an exception with regard to the promise of an opt-in system when it comes to the Dublin Regulation and Schengen, where the parties to the agreement also write the same thing, but without this addition on the substance of the matter. We might well have the idea that the government would like to have the opportunity to smuggle in elements of a common immigration and asylum policy without the promise of referendums being activated, and then this shortcut has been made in order to avoid it. It is therefore not entirely unimportant what the government is obliging Denmark to do. Now there are 1.2 million foreigners illegally admitted to Europe this year alone, and that is quite a high figure, it has to be said. If we now assumed that the EU's hotspots actually started to work and that, instead of applying for asylum in individual countries, asylum was then sought through hotspots, it would be a very, very large number of refugees to be distributed in Europe. It does not seem to me as if the European top politicians have realised that what we are really facing here is a survival struggle in which we are putting our welfare, culture and, indeed, society at risk with the mass immigration that we have witnessed in recent months and which has, of course, been aggravated by the avalanche that Angela Merkel set in motion when she opened the gates of Germany and, in fact, the gates of Europe wide open to the crowds of the world. There is no doubt that this could be a huge pressure on Denmark, which we can also feel because we need to sweep up after Chancellor Merkel's self-target. If the people want to be assured that there will be no common asylum and immigration policy without their being heard again in a referendum, then the safest thing to do is to vote 'no' on 3 December. If the government had wished that the referendum should not concern asylum and immigration policy, then the government could simply have held a referendum on the sole issue of surrendering sovereignty to Europol and the 22 legislative acts. Then we wouldn't have had to have this discussion at all. So, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that, in the event of a yes guarantee for a referendum prior to the surrender of sovereignty in the field of asylum and aliens policy, it is not legally binding. • V 7).
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133948	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the proposal for adoption. This will be part of the further negotiations. The first in line is sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116133956	What worries me is not, in fact, whether the Danish asylum policy should ever be handed over to the European Union without a referendum, because our Prime Minister has decided not to do so. What concerns me more is the intention of the Danish People's Party in relation to Europol. And can the rapporteur confirm that in 2009 the Danish People's Party voted against the Europol Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134021	Well, that's right. And what you just have to remember is that things can actually change. As far as Europol is concerned, they have done so. We have become aware that Europol is an important player, and that is why we have also reported out clearly, in relation to the referendum we must have that we want Denmark to continue in Europol. We have set out two viable ways of ensuring this: parallel agreement, a limited system of opt-outs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134052	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134052-2	Thank you. Can the rapporteur clarify why the Danish People's Party voted against Europol at the time and what has changed its position?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134104	It is clear that we had a concern about what Europol would develop into; whether Europol would become such a kind of European FBI, or what I know. I would say that we have probably come to the conclusion that this development is not taking Europol. Europol will be a sensible cooperation to take part in in the future too, and that is why, as I also say, we believe it is important for Denmark to continue in Europol, even after a 'no' vote on 3 December, and we have then set out these two deadly paths to ensure this, without leaving the possibility of surrendering sovereignty to a random majority in the European Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134139	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134140	Thank you. Quite briefly: It was not so much new that we heard here from the Danish People's Party. It's a record that runs in the same groove. That is why I just feel the need to say that we are also co-sponsors of the proposal for adoption put forward by Mrs Trine Bramsen before.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134159	I do not think there was any question for the rapporteur, but I do not know whether the rapporteur will answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134206	But the rapporteur would like to reply. The rapporteur is always happy to answer questions which are not questions. I just want to say to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that it is actually a little strange that the Socialist People's Party is behind the proposal for adoption, all the time that I have noticed what posters the Socialist People's Party has hung up around the landscape. It would always be nice if there were a little more rigour in one's way of expressing oneself. Well, now Mr. Holger K. Nielsen himself, that I am a record of phonographs that glows, and I must say that I prefer to be a record of phonographs rather than something that cannot really find out whether it should play in one direction or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134239	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134242	Well, at least this gramophone runs so much that if you are interested in hearing my answer to it, you can read my comments from the third reading of the bill. At that time, we had exactly the same discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134257	Yes, I can confirm that we had the same discussion and that there was no clear explanation there either why the SF says that it has nothing to do with asylum and immigration policy, but has hung up a lot of posters which says that we should vote 'yes' to be together on refugees. Maybe we'll settle this today. • Who knows?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134310	So there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134319	First of all, let me say that I believe that the issue we are discussing here today has already been given ample consideration. It is nothing more than a few weeks ago our Prime Minister stood in the Chamber and gave his guarantee that if a question ever arises in the Folketing as to whether we are going to hand over Danish asylum policy to the European Union, then there will be a referendum. The Danish People's Party is well aware that if it becomes a 'yes' on 3 December and it seems fortunately that it does so it will forever require the acceptance of all the yes parties to be able to send asylum policy to the European Union. So when the Left guarantees that if we get into that situation, the Left will demand a referendum, but then we will have a guarantee. And I guess other parties have also signed up to the same argument, including the Social Democracy and the Conservatives. So frankly, I don't really see why we spend so much time on this question. If the Danish People's Party really cared so much about this issue, it would be easier for the Danish People's Party to get into the group of yes parties, because then they would also have a right of veto. What I am more concerned about, on the other hand, is the way in which the Danish People's Party is spreading fear and uncertainty about what it is we are going to vote on on 3 December, and in particular the uncertainty that the Danish People's Party risks putting Denmark in. Fortunately, as I said, it does not seem to be a no, but if it becomes a no, we are in a situation where the Danish People's Party guarantees that we can make a parallel agreement. Parallel agreements therefore take up to several years to make, and in several cases we have seen that this has simply not been possible. So the uncertainty that really exists in this area is the one that the Danish People's Party comes up with by risking sending Danish police into a situation in which we may or may not be part of Europol at all for a long time or for all eternity. I find this somewhat more worrying than the questions that the Danish People's Party is asking here about whether it is a legal or a political agreement. We have lots of agreements in the Folketing that go all the way back to the legal reservation with the European Union, which is also political, and they are perhaps better in my optics than the legal agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134541	The first person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134545	Now that there is this guarantee of a referendum on asylum and aliens prior to Danish accession, I would really like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth, why it is then that the legislative notes made an exception in relation to the Dublin Regulation and Schengen. What's the point of that exception?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134614	I believe that the most important thing here is that we get written into the legislative text, that we have three parties that guarantee that there will be a referendum if it is the case that the issue should ever come up. In addition to the fact that it seems very, very unlikely, when you look at the political landscape, that there should ever be a majority wishing to send asylum policy to the European Union, there are a number of parties who will vouch for the need for a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134642	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134645	I just have to ask again: why is it that this guarantee applies to the territory of foreigners, but not when it is the case that the Dublin Regulation and Schengen are affected? Surely it is most relevant for citizens to know why these exceptions exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134703	What we are talking about here is the area of foreigners themselves, and there is the fact that it will come to a referendum and, in fact, no longer is it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134709	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of speakers is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116134724	Thank you. In the view of the Enhedslisten, this discussion has both a legal and a political side. If we look at the legal side, we will see that it is perfectly clear. If we say yes on 3 December, we have transferred competence, including in relation to asylum and immigration policy, to the European Union. It's surrendered. Boom, done! It's right there. Because it is so clear, we can also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which merely notes this legal fact. Then there is one political side, and that is the other. It is that when that power is then transferred to the EU, when will the majority of the Folketing decide by a majority of 1 vote or 10 votes to activate it, i.e. actually initiate it? It is clear that we have been given a political guarantee which has been written into the comments on a legislative proposal, and we have heard many who have been up for the political guarantee that it will certainly not be done until there has been a referendum. There I just have to say that it is so fundamental that it is a question of political trust, i.e. whether you have confidence in the guarantee of those parties. There's nothing legal about it. But if you trust that political parties in Christiansborg always keep their word, never go beyond what they have promised, for example. in the area of the European Union, never goes further than the people in general want, but then you can rely on the political guarantee. That's perfectly obvious. So I believe that that part of it is an issue that people have to deal with themselves, in terms of whether they have political confidence not only in the current politicians but also in all future politicians, because, as I said, it can be another Parliament, and then it can be some others. But if you have it, there's no problem. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, it is no secret that the Enhedslisten is extremely critical of the EU's refugee and asylum policy. We find it very difficult to see that it is in any way solidarity or appropriate. If we look at what is the basis for us today to have the terrible and terrible scenes of refugees who have to come across the sea to come here and seek asylum.So whether or not they get it and have to use people smugglers to come here, there is only one explanation for it, and that explanation is the European Union and the carrier responsibility, that is, what makes people being kept out of Fortress Europe and not being given the opportunity to come here and seek asylum, which, in our view, is deeply problematic. People must be allowed to seek asylum. Whether or not they should be granted asylum depends on whether or not they have an asylum base. However, forcing people into a process that the European Union has been behind, where they have to risk their lives in order to have the opportunity at all to seek asylum, is quite disastrous. That is why we are a little surprised that some parties almost make it synonymous, make it the same to be in favour of a common EU refugee and asylum policy and advocate a more lenient or more progressive or humanistic policy, or whatever words you will now choose. There we just have to see that there is no coherence. On the whole, we find it difficult to see the coherence of the positions of certain parties. I have to say that this is particularly true of the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party because, on the one hand, an agreement is being reached on a political guarantee which has been confirmed by the proposal for adoption presented here today, which says: we are giving each other veto rights, the Left veto right, the Conservative veto right, the Social Democratic veto right in relation to the EU's influence in this area. On the other hand, we are campaigning to say that the European Union must have a say in this area, because it will then be much better. I simply do not understand how these two things are connected, but that is perhaps primarily my problem. In terms of a sensible refugee policy, the Enhedslisten believes that the problem lies first and foremost in the Danish Parliament. We are, of course, subject to some things that have come from the European Union and that have been really bad, but for example. In relation to whether we want to take 1,000 or 5,000 in some voluntary distribution scheme, which we agree with, is only a matter for the Danish Parliament. It is clear that we are in favour of some other views than a number of others, and that is why we do not want to give the European Union more power in this area either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135235	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of speakers is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. And you can better get ready to talk when you need to talk. I thought there was another party before me. Liberal Alliance, aren't they on?). You can sign on when you want to speak in the Chamber, and that is actually Mr. President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, who is the rapporteur, and nobody has asked to speak. The rapporteur would like to come up here and we will switch around. But in future, if you want to speak, you have to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135328	Thank you for that and I regret the confusion over who represents the Liberal Alliance in this matter. That's what I'm doing as a substitute for Mr. Cole. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. So to the question: I think there is no one in this House who is in doubt that today's question draws many threads in many directions. The issue of Danish sovereignty is pressing, but the same is true of the current refugee and migrant crisis, about bloody civil wars, about the challenges of integration, about European quota arrangements, about Danish rules on everything from family reunification to study and work stays and, above all, about the terrible terrorist threat, the topicality of which has just been elucidated in all its horror and cruelty. The Liberal Alliance has made a number of suggestions as to what steps Denmark should take and what steps the international community should be committed to. However, we have also made it clear that we believe that Denmark should retain the competence to take its own decisions on asylum, refugee and alien issues. It should not be parked in Brussels or in Strasbourg, but should remain anchored in the Danish electorate and in the Danish Parliament. Is that the same as letting Denmark close itself and be blind to the context and the big picture? No, of course not. Although we insist on maintaining sovereignty in the areas of asylum, refugee and aliens, we are of course no more square than always seeking mutually binding arrangements when it is they that make the most sense. We therefore recognise that Schengen cooperation, and probably the Dublin Regulation as supranational institutions, requires the surrender of sovereignty. This requirement may make sense, not least in view of the fact that cross-border challenges require cross-border solutions. This is particularly true in relation to the guarding of common external borders, which today leaves much to be desired. In relation to the current crisis, it must be clear to everyone that there is no solution where Denmark can stand alone. In fact, it is not even certain that the European Union can stand alone. However, on the basis of intergovernmental cooperation, we must make a joint European attempt to ease the pressure on immigrants, to deal with humanitarian crises and to reject threats to our security and fundamental values. If you ask Liberal Alliance, of course Denmark must contribute constructively to common solutions. We have noted the Prime Minister's stated guarantee that Denmark will not join the EU's common asylum and immigration policy unless the Danes themselves have given a mandate to do so in a new referendum. This politically binding, but of course not legally binding and binding, guarantee we would like to acknowledge. We still have a slight hope that the Danish Parliament's 'yes' parties will extend that system to the whole area of justice and home affairs. If you did, you would sweep away many legitimate concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135647	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Everyone's ready; it's going well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135656	Thank you. We have talked about this sometimes in recent weeks, and that is quite right, because we have a huge challenge in the world. We have such a large number of refugees that we have to stand together in the world community to deal with it. One of the forums in which such a thing should be handled is in our optics also the European Union. This is not just a matter of redistribution; this is not about us thinking that all policy on the area of refugees and asylum from the European Union is right. It's about the fact that no country can stand alone. The Commission expects 3 million refugees to arrive by 2017. That is so many that it will not be able to be dealt with dignifiedly and properly in any country, but it is no more than that the EU Member States together will be able to deal with it. From the point of view of the alternative, we have, of course, pressed for the people to be heard in this particular area. We have tabled a resolution calling for it to be included in the vote on 3 December, but unfortunately no other party supported it. We have also noted that a majority in here has made a political agreement to keep it here emphatically outside this referendum, and it has even been written into the legislative notes, as has already been mentioned. We very much regret this, because in our optics it would make sense for us to participate in a binding community. I have a small proposal for adoption, I will read out: proposals for adoption • We note that the conciliation circle behind the agreement, which forms the basis for the forthcoming referendum on the transformation of the legal reserve into an electoral system, did not want the Danish people to take a position on Danish accession to the EU's common asylum and refugee policy. The Folketing calls on the government to participate actively in the joint European cooperation in the area of asylum and refugees, despite the fact that, after 3 December 2015, whatever the outcome, we have not endorsed the acts of the EU's common asylum and refugee policy. • V 8).
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135906	This proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are two who have asked to speak on short points. The first is sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135914	Thank you. I would really like to have the Alternative's rapporteur for a moment not to deal with the European Union of dreams, but with the reality of the European Union and to hear whether Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist does not agree with the Enhedslisten that the EU's refugee and asylum policy has cost thousands and thousands of people their lives in recent years precisely because of the transporter's responsibility which has been imposed on carriers and which has forced people to seek asylum in Europe under the most terrible conditions. Doesn't the alternative agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116135955	At any rate, I can confirm that the alternative is in complete agreement with the Enhedslisten in the criticism of the system of refugees and asylum seekers that we have in the European Union. At the same time, however, I also have to point out that no country will be able to deal with 3 million refugees until 2017 alone. That is why we need to find common European ways of solving this. Then we would like it to be in a different way than it is being done today, but we have to face up to reality. No country can do this on its own, but we can do it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140028	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140029	We kind of agree that no country can do this on its own. That is also why we are in favour of creating not only a European but, in a sense, an international agreement, in which we also propose that Denmark should certainly take its responsibility. But now that we agree that the EU's refugee and asylum policy has cost thousands and thousands of people their lives in recent years, is it not a rather dangerous policy to give the European Union more influence in this area? Well, you can have a hope that it is being used for something good, but it might as well be that you continue • perhaps even reinforced. We see the strengthening of Frontex and so on. etc. It may as well continue. Is it not a relatively heavy responsibility to assume when we now know the European Union's policy right up to this day when we stand here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140118	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we must, of course, work together in the international forums that exist, and one of them is the European Union. I find it difficult to see who is just stepping in and solving this on the international stage more quickly than we can in the European Union. But it does of course mean that we must press for a very good treatment of the people who come here. I just don't believe that any country can handle 3 million refugees alone by 2017. Then we can wait for the Council of Europe to deal with it, for the United Nations to deal with it, but right now we only have the European Union to do it, and then I think we should back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140152	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140154	Thank you. I'm still away in a process like this, trying to figure out what the alternative really wants. Last time we had a debate about the European Union, it was something about having a lot of referendums. We would also like to see some referenda on asylum and immigration policy. And then I just have to ask the alternative rapporteur here: why not, in fact, recommend a 'no' in this referendum, because then there was an opportunity for these referendums to be taken afterwards? Now it just happens that the powers in the field of asylum and aliens are transferred to the Folketing. If we now recommended a 'no' vote, we could come back and say that we could have all the referenda that the alternative would like and that we would really like. Why did you end up on yes? I don't quite get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140241	Well, I am sorry, because that means that the questioner has not followed in all the debates we have had down here, where I have just explained it. But I can at least tell you that we are saying that this is a step in the right direction. We have always criticised the agreement behind this referendum, but we have to do something about ourselves: do we think this is a step in the right direction or in the wrong direction? And there we have come to the conclusion that we think it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140305	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140306	I do not know whether this shows my lack of comprehension or the lack of teaching ability of the rapporteur. I have to leave that alone, but I just have to say: then it has to be the case that referendums are not really the determining factor for the alternative, but that the crucial factor for the alternative is to implement the policy of the alternative. And then I don't even understand where those referendums come in. The alternative is that we should give it here, that we should say yes now, but we would rather have had a lot of referenda that we could actually update if it were the case that a no was recommended. I find it very confusing, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140339-2	There will be a referendum on 3 December. We believe that this is a step in the right direction for us to address cross-border challenges. We would have liked to have seen the whole legal reservation put to the vote or a different solution subsequently chosen, but there we have to make up for ourselves whether this is a step in the right direction for problems to be resolved at the levels where they need to be resolved. We therefore believe that cross-border problems must be solved in cross-border communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140411	No one else has asked for brief comments. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140422	Thank you, President. On 3 December, we will be voting on an opt-in system. We are going to vote on 22 legislative acts which a broad majority of parties want Denmark to join. It is a very privileged choice that we in Denmark have the opportunity to have an opt-in system, and the Radical Left thinks that we should make use of it. I have such a view that, if the Radical Left had repeatedly expressed itself more negatively or perhaps, it might even be said, a little childishly, that we would rather say no, because we could not have everything we wanted, then it could be that the Danish People's Party had been more positive. And, of course, it could have played an excellent role. But in the Radical Left we feel that we would rather take what we can get when it goes in the right direction than stand on the sidelines. And this vote on 3 December, no matter how much we talk about it, is not about asylum and refugee policy, because that is not part of what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140559	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140601	It was not much that could be said about it, one has to admit. But okay, it's nice to have the Radicals brief. Then it may be a little clearer what the Radicals think. But I would just like to ask Sofie Carsten Nielsen: in the event that in the future, perhaps with one or two other parties, the Radicals could find 90 seats in this Parliament to surrender sovereignty to the European Union in the field of asylum and aliens, what would the Radical Left do? Would a referendum be held, or would the Radical Left ship the immigration policy to Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140637	Well, the Radical Left were probably some of the first to propose a referendum on this area. We think we should take what will then be an indicative referendum on asylum and immigration policy, because it is a very good idea for us to be involved in that cooperation. The way the world looks, as Europe develops, we need to find common solutions. But it is the case that we do not think it is entirely aware that we do not have 90 mandates. And if we should once gather support to participate, we will, of course, what we have proposed: hold an indicative referendum. I really think that the whole thing is such a fundamental mistrust of our democracy, because if there are 90 mandates that want to join and can find a majority for it in the population, then it is democracy at its core that is unfolding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140745	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140747	I do not think Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen needs to be so sceptical about the future prospects of her party. There was once a Hilmar Baunsgaard who gathered a great many voters behind the Radical Left, and it may be that you find one again. I just do not understand why the Radical Left would like to participate in such a referendum, so why did not the Radical Left subscribe to the guarantee which the Left, the Social Democrats and the Conservatives agreed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140812	Yes, but the Radical Left had already proposed to hold an indicative referendum at that time, so we stick to our own proposal. The draft law was then put forward, and then the comments changed. We are comfortable with that, but, as I said, we have proposed to hold an indicative referendum ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140833	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140836	Thank you. I am also one of those who do not fully understand the radical policy of contrasting with the policy of the Alternative, where we can discuss it there with the European Union, but where there is, of course, a coherence of policy. I do not understand how one can think that it is important for the European Union to have more influence on asylum and refugee policy, and then make an agreement that means giving Social Democracy, the Left and Conservative veto rights. I mean, as long as one of the parties' votes is crucial to obtaining a majority in Parliament and I don't know how long it's gonna last with all of them... then the Radicals will be prevented from achieving what they say is the purpose. Well, I just can't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116140919	Actually, I think that sir... Søren Søndergaard can understand. I believe Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard and, by the way, Mr. Søndergaard. Kenneth Kristensen Berth really high intellectual capacity, and I am quite sure that both one and the other rapporteur are fully aware that this is about being able to go some way. In the Radical Left, we say openly and I think, in particular, that the people understand that we want to be part of a common asylum-foreign policy, but there is no majority in favour of that. When we made this deal, there was nothing near a majority for it, and it's still not gone. On the other hand, we would really, very much like Denmark to join the common police cooperation in Europol and all the other legal acts that give citizens and businesses greater security and more opportunities. And that is the compromise we have reached, namely that, in order to achieve that, we should make that agreement. It is, of course, the case in politics that some compromises have to be reached and that is where we have taken this step. On the other hand, it is the case that many parties now want a referendum, and so do we, and we hope it will come as soon as possible, so that it can be the Danish people who decide whether we should be involved in asylum and immigration policy. I cannot imagine in my wildest imagination a Parliament which does not respect such a vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141043	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141045	Okay, then I think I understand. In other words, we have agreed to a reservation against refugees because we have received something in some other areas. This, of course, can be described as a step along the road. It is not a step on the road to what the Radical Left is looking up for, namely a specific refugee and alien policy. It is a step that blocks it, and then you get something else in return. Okay. In addition, I would like to ask: what is it that makes you so happy about the EU's asylum and refugee policy? Does Sofie Carsten Nielsen agree with me that the EU's transporter responsibility has cost thousands of people their lives here during the last period?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141127	I see the huge refugee crisis we are having right now as an expression of the fact that there are many, many thousands of people • million now fleeing from war. They are fleeing from war because they are being persecuted and then some come, but I am sure the rapporteur will agree with me on Europe. I am in favour of a common asylum and immigration policy in Europe, because I can see that the countries we have left the responsibility for which we are unfortunate can be said and some might think, in a European context, to be at the external borders, have been entirely responsible. And I think it looks like it can't last. That is why I want a common European policy in which much more responsibility is shared out. But that requires, I think, that we share it. I would also have liked to have had an international agreement, I would also have liked to have had a voluntary agreement, which Enhedslisten is in favour of. I just believe more in the binding agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141232	No one else has signed up for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141250	The text of the question reads as follows: • What can the Government say about Denmark's future prospects for pursuing an independent asylum, refugee and alien policy following the possible lifting of the legal reservation on 3 December 2015? The answer is short: there is no big change, not in the short term at least. We hope that, in the longer term, we will be able to use a 'yes' to have a proper discussion both here in Denmark and in other European countries about the need for European solutions. But the answer is quite simple: nothing special happens. So the Danish People's Party can really relax. Unfortunately, as the Folketing is currently composed and also after 3 December, they will have far too much influence on Danish immigration policy. Hopefully this can also change, so we will convince the voters that Denmark should not be dragged further into the mud by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141356	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141358	It was not a long speech from the rapporteur, but I just have to ask the rapporteur again: why is it when the rapporteur says what the rapporteur says that we are enriched by these posters in the countryside with the rapporteur's colleague Margrete Auken, who says: together on refugees, vote yes. In other words, it would be like the Danish People's Party hanging up a lot of posters where it said: Together about the euro, vote "no" then just followed by a question mark. The rapporteur says that this has nothing to do with it, but the rapporteur has hung up a lot of posters saying that you have to vote 'yes', because you are then with refugees and the rapporteur therefore owes an explanation to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141430	Now Margrete Auken is always an enrichment, so I think he should enjoy the posters set up not by me personally, but by a lot of SFs. I've answered those questions before. Kenneth Kristensen Berth himself said in the past that the Eurodac and Dublin regulations have been applied, so of course refugee policy is involved in the referendum, but that does not change Danish immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141500	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141505	I am actually delighted that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says that of course refugee policy plays a role in this vote. That also indicates that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, when you really put the chair at his door, really has the same position as the Danish People's Party in relation to the legal aspects. I just want to ask the rapporteur again why the rapporteur has actually changed his position on this issue, because earlier the rapporteur thought that Denmark was best served by not but I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur really thinks that Denmark was best served by today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141541	I don't know what, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth thinks about it. In other words, if he thinks of 1992, it was not in the cards at the time that we should have a common asylum policy. What we were discussing then, and what we were a little afraid of then, was primarily common police, common criminal law, common courts, etc., which were supposed to take over the Danish courts, the Danish police. That's not what we got. We have had sensible cross-border cooperation, and that is what we want to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141614	No one else has asked to speak on the short remarks. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141633	After all, the question is about what the government can tell us, and I cannot answer that, so I come up here primarily for the sake of good order and for the possibility of asking supplementary questions. We have had some long debates on the legal reservation and I do not want to repeat our whole long argument as to why we think it is right to vote in favour. I am at your disposal if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141700	And so there is. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141704	The real question is whether the guarantee that has now been given is a legal guarantee or a political guarantee, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur about that. Is it a legal guarantee, or is it a political guarantee given?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141719	It's a political guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141722	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141724	I'll just sign for that. Indeed, I think it is important to keep the two things separate, because a political guarantee can really only be given on behalf of itself, on behalf of the current situation. It cannot be given on behalf of future Parliament. As I mentioned earlier here today, it may well be that the Folketing will look completely different in 20 or 30 years' time, so I would just like to sign that the rapporteur says what the rapporteur says, which is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141750	Thank you. I also think that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth knew that this was the case. I have also said it many times from the platform, but it is fine that we inform people about what is the matter and political guarantees are respected in here. When we make agreements between political parties, there is no tradition that we break them. Politicians can say many things, they can make many wrong predictions, but written agreements between political parties in the Folketing are being observed because in here we do not tolerate anyone breaking them. It is also the case that if you do not keep political agreements with other political parties, nobody else wants to make agreements with that party on another occasion. So it is actually a quite strong guarantee and, as an example, the 1993 guarantee, which has lasted for 22 years, can be mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141836	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of speakers is the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice? The Minister of Justice has chosen not to speak. We shall now proceed to the second round, because the rapporteur for the questioners has actually asked to speak in the second round. It's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116141918	I'm really glad that this is going into the annals. That is something you will remember, and you will also remember the Minister for Justice that the Minister for Justice obviously did not think it necessary to take the floor in order to conclude this debate with regard to the Minister for Justice. So the Minister of Justice didn't, and then you can think about it. However, I would like to thank those who have contributed to today's debate, and I have to say that the referendum we are due to take on 3 December is full of promises and guarantees and law, and today we have tried to clarify how far this guarantee from the Left, the Social Democrats and the Conservatives on a referendum prior to the surrender of sovereignty in the area of asylum and immigration policy really goes. We have tried to find out how far the musketeered given by all the jalots for agreement prior to the release goes, but we have not figured it out. What we have found out is that this is a political guarantee, and I thank you, among other things. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to mention, not a legal guarantee. We have found that the fact that the political guarantee is mentioned in the legislative notes has no significance in terms of whether or not it is legally valid. The guarantee is not legally valid, as Dr. Jur. At the University of Copenhagen Peter Pagh has pointed out in the daily press. What, then, can such a guarantee be used for? That's the question. It depends, of course, on the confidence of the politicians who have issued the guarantee and on one's belief that in 20 to 30 years the Folketing will look like the Parliament we have today. If you think that the 'yes' politicians have at no time given too much sovereignty to the European Union and will never do so in the future, then you can quite calmly vote 'yes', but if you think that has actually been done by the 'yes' parties, you should seriously consider voting 'no'. We do not know what foreign policy really is either. We know that the 'yes' parties have issued a non-legally valid political guarantee not to surrender sovereignty to the two articles, 78 and 79, which relate to asylum and immigration policy, but we also know that the three parties that have made promises with regard to the referendum have made two reservations, namely that if the Dublin Regulation is affected, there should be no referendum, nor should there be a referendum if it is about the Schengen acquis. Thus, the creation of a redistribution mechanism for asylum seekers linked to the Dublin Regulation, as the European Commission wishes, will not necessarily trigger a referendum. In fact, it would have been very easy for the yes-party parties to make sure that we did not at all discuss the provisions on asylum and immigration policy in this referendum. It could well have been ensured that these two articles were exempted from the general provision that future elections should be made by the Folketing, in practice the European Committee, thus adding to the legal text itself that asylum and immigration articles 78 and 79 should be excluded. That's not what you've wanted. Why we did not want this, we can only guess, but in doing so we have made sure that we are not legally bound to a new referendum on the surrender of sovereignty in the field of asylum and aliens. It must be concluded that, at best, we have no idea whether and to what extent asylum and immigration policy could be affected in the event of a yes on 3 December, but what we know is that, legally speaking, there is nothing to prevent ships from travelling Danish asylum and alien policy to the European Union if a majority would wish to do so on a late Friday afternoon in the European Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142314	No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor at all, and that is why the debate is closed. The votes on the various proposals for adoption will, as I said, only take place on 17 November 2015, i.e. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142335	The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142350	I shall begin by saying that we Socialists support the proposal here. The proposal ensures better use of resources by our authorities and greater flexibility, which we can only support in this context. The draft law contains a number of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure aimed at simplifying parts of criminal justice, both in the field of blood tests, video productions by extensions of time, more flexibility in the use of interpreters and better tools for case making. I'm gonna dive into the part about the extension of the deadline. It makes very good sense that these can be done via video links. This is instead of the inmate having to leave prison, being driven by officers to a courtroom, often across the country, with the waiting period and with any risks. We do not believe that there are legal problems in making extensions of time via video links, and we must also bear in mind that there is still a possibility of voluntary extension of time, and the judge can also consider that there are special considerations which mean that the extension of time must be made in a traditional way by physical attendance. As I have said, we can support the proposal here today, and at the same time I would like to acknowledge that in future we would also like to look at more effective cases that both create greater security and better use of resources, as long as it is in balance with the legal certainty aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142530	No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142539	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur has, of course, explained very well what the proposal is about. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is basically sensible to take good care of the resources available to the police and the prosecution. In doing so, we support the intention to simplify criminal justice, and we therefore support the proposal for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142605	No one has asked for the floor. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142613	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today involves, among other things, the possibility of blood tests being carried out by health professionals in the future. It is probably no more complicated than I think it can easily happen in that way and probably also at cheaper money when it comes to it. The proposal also contains the question of extensions of time. It is the case that extension of time can already be decided by the judge today. What is in the proposal is that now the prosecution's presence in court is no longer necessary. The judge can decide that the prosecutor can sit elsewhere, for example at the police station, and participate per year. video. The same shall apply to any participating interpreter. He doesn't have to be with the in custody. He may sit in a third place where the court considers it appropriate. In my opinion, there is no legal uncertainty about this. It should be remembered in this connection that the interpreter can always be present with the defender in prison during preliminary talks, etc. Finally, it clears up who is indicting criminal proceedings. From now on, it is the chief of police and in appeals to the district attorney. There has been a need to clean this up for a long time. So, as a whole, the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142731	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116142748	It's not like it's becoming the fourth largest party, but I'll get used to it one day. The draft law that we are debating contains a number of rapporteurs who have said a number of different proposals for simplifying procedures, some of which are, in fact, just a result of technological developments, and of course we are not opposed to that, but it should not go beyond legal certainty. Of course, if we take such a bit of a concrete approach to the bouquet of various changes in the bill, we cannot be opposed to a doctor delegateing the collection of a blood sample to a helper if it is someone who is trained for it and can find out how to handle blood tests, and if the person who has to give the blood test does so voluntarily. We would, however, like to ask a question about what kind of staff groups can be used to assist a doctor. It could be nurses and bioanalysts, but the question is whether it could also be other professional groups, and we would like to ask more about that. Also in the very special situations in which a blood sample is actually to be taken by means of coercion, it is very important that the doctor who has to assess whether it is safe for the blood sample to be taken via a helper is present and sees the person who will then give the blood sample immediately before the test is taken, and we would also like to ask a little more about that. It was about blood tests. Then there is another part of the bill that is about the prosecutor's participation in court hearings on extension of time by means of video communications, when the defendant is also involved in video communications. Nor do we see any problems in this, and it is reasonable, as the other rapporteurs have said, to be allowed to do. More problematic, however, is the fact that this draft law also proposes that any interpreter should not necessarily be in the same room as the accused person, and the Council of Lawyers points out in its hearing answer that this bill may undermine legal certainty for the accused. We already know that the quality of the interpreters used in the Danish courtrooms is extremely fluctuating, to put it mildly, as several studies also point out, most recently the Translater Association's study, which came last month. After all, the lawyer's council stresses that such things as the mimik that the accused uses to elaborate on what is being said are something that is often lost if the interpreter and the defendant are not present in the same room. It is precisely when, unfortunately, there are doubts about the quality of the interpreting services provided in the Danish judicial system that I would add that it is particularly important that the interpreter and the defendant should be in the same room. If we didn't have the big problems in advance, it might have been another talk, but this is kind of about making hurt worse. We can therefore support the Council's recommendation that the legal base should be that the interpreter and the defendant are in the same room, unless it is associated with some very, very special difficulties, and we also ask some questions about that, and we will consider tabling an amendment. We would certainly hope that the Minister will be open to dialogue on this part of the bill. So we think there are some fine things in what we can easily support when we have some clarification on some issues, and we will try to clarify that in the Legal Affairs Committee. But we also have a very profound, real concern about the legal certainty of the accused when it comes to interpreting aid. I hope we can all agree that understanding what is going on in a trial where you are yourself accused is really, really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143150	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143205	Thank you. This bill proposes to simplify parts of criminal justice in the field of justice law, and these are amendments aimed at ensuring a more appropriate use of police and prosecution resources. Specifically, it is proposed to change the practice of taking blood tests in investigative contexts. Doctors will thus be able, under their responsibility, to delegate the collection of blood samples to a qualified helper so that it does not have to be a doctor solely responsible for this task. Secondly, changes are proposed in the practice of using video communications in court hearings for extension of time, with the aim of making the process for the prosecution and possible interpreter more flexible. It is thus suggested that the public prosecutor and interpreters are, to a lesser extent, subject to the physical presence of the accused when hearings for extension of the time limit are held. Finally, it proposes a simplification and modernisation of the prosecution's powers of appeal, so that the justice law only establishes a starting point for the police director to deal with criminal proceedings in the first instance and the public prosecutor to address appeals in the national court. All in all, the draft law will open up administrative and financial efficiency for the police and prosecutors. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we welcome these improvements in efficiency, which are both sensible priorities and less bureaucracy, as well as the many consultation responses in general have taken a positive view of the draft law. The Liberal Alliance can therefore support the bill, and I am thinking of Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll looks forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143348	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left... that is not true! I came to jump over the alternative, and it is Mrs Josephine Fock who is replacing the original rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143407	Yes, but I am the rapporteur, also in everyday life. But otherwise it was because we thought we couldn't make it because of another meeting. Thank you for the floor. To the draft law amending the law on the administration of justice, we have no comment on provisions 1, 2 and 4 relating respectively to the taking of blood tests, the participation of the prosecution in court hearings through video communications and the prosecution's power of appeal. We are therefore in favour of these provisions. Then there is provision 3 on the position of the interpreter during extension proceedings in the courtroom. There we have more reservations, and we are, because it is clear from the Council's response to the draft law that this proposal could lead to a deterioration in legal certainty for the accused. What they see the deterioration can consist of is that good and accurate communication and translation between the interpreter and the defendant will often require that they are physically located in the same room. And it is important, according to the Lawyers' Council, not least for two reasons: firstly, because the interpreter often uses follow-up questions to ensure a correct perception of what the accused thinks, and secondly, because the body language, i.e.. mimik or gesture, often plays an important role in understanding between the interpreter and the defendant. These things, according to the Lawyer's Council, may be lost by video interpretation. In the alternative, we have the basic view that legal certainty should be given a very high weight, and that is why it is also our immediate position in this case that it should be the intention of the accused to provide the primary basis for decision-making where the interpreter should be located, even though in some cases it may mean less difficulties, even if this may mean that we sometimes miss resource savings. There must, of course, be room for exceptions, as we believe there is in the current system, but these should remain exceptions, so that we continue to give the legal certainty of the guarantee the highest priority. We would therefore like to recommend the proposal for referral to committee, in which we would like to see more specific clarification, on which basis the position of the interpreter is decided and how the different criteria for the decision are balanced with the government's legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143600	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143611	Thank you, President. I now think that the proposal has been examined quite well by the previous rapporteurs. We are also in favour of the Radical Left. We have suffered the same concerns as I could hear both the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the Alternative's rapporteur, but would very much have liked to have clarified it in relation to the position of the interpreters and look forward to answering questions during the committee's reading on this. My view, both of the consultation answers and of the statements of other experts, is that it can in fact also sometimes promote the quality of interpretation to be able to have access to video interpretation, because, as previous rapporteurs have pointed out, there are problems with the quality of interpretation, and thus to have access to higher quality. However, I look forward to the Minister being able to elaborate on this during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143708	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143720	Thank you. This is a good proposal as it simplifies practices without any consequences for legal certainty. However, we note that the quality of the interpreters' work is being questioned during video interviews. We would therefore like to ask some questions about how the Minister will ensure that legal certainty does not come under pressure as a result of video interviews. We do not think it is problematic to delegate the collection of blood tests, as nursing staff have a high professional standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143752	Those were the words? Thank you. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143805	Conservatives also support the proposal. In our view, it makes sense for people other than doctors to be allowed to carry out blood tests and for the other measures that are contained in the case of hearings via video connection and the possibility of determining where interpreters should be at the hearing also to make sense. We also regard it as quite natural that the rules on prosecution should be simplified and modernised. So we think it is a good proposal and we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143847	Thank you. The last speaker is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116143902	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. It has been said many times what the purpose is, but it is therefore by means of a number of minor amendments and adaptations to the Code of Procedure to simplify parts of criminal justice in the light of the authorities' experience in applying the rules in force in practice. This will ensure more appropriate use of the resources of the police and prosecution services and the organisation of work, such as: by doctors who perform blood tests in accordance with the rules of the Code of Procedure on body intervention may delegate the task to a helper, and by further taking part in court hearings on extension of time by video connection. In short, we are following the times and listening to the experiences of the authorities. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am, of course, available to answer those questions, including the questions of legal certainty, such as: The Radical Left, the Alternative and Enhedslisten have travelled during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144002	There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. So thank you for your speech. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144022	The debate is open. The first speaker is the rapporteur for the Socialists, Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144042	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today is based on the report that was launched in this area with the clear focus of ensuring that children and young people have better conditions when they have witnessed a criminal act or when they are otherwise involved in the case. I should like to begin by commending the Minister for following this matter to the end. The draft law ensures that these very vulnerable witnesses are treated as carefully as possible, but that consideration of the legal certainty of the accused is given at the same time, so that the courts have the best possible basis for taking concrete decisions. It is therefore proposed to extend the use of video consultation so that video consultation is carried out as soon as possible after the police report and thus in a secure environment in one of the children's houses where the hearing is carried out by specially trained video interviewers. The use of video consultation will be extended so that video consultation of children aged 13-14 will always be possible in future in cases of sexual crimes, incest or violence committed within the family. At the same time, video consultation in the future will mean that children and young people who have been video interviewed, as a clear starting point, will be exempted from being witnesses in the main debate. In these words, we Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144222	I shall begin by saying that we support a proposal such as this, which is very sensible on crucial points. Children and young people who are exposed to or witness to these terrible, serious crimes will be exempted from having to appear in the right to something that can be emotionally hard and stressful, and will in future be able to be questioned on video so that they avoid this experience that can be awful for the individual child. That is why we support this proposal. We can only like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144258	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144309	Today, the principle of irremediability applies. That means that all the evidence must be brought before the courts, that is to say. during the main proceedings, so that judges and judges may attend the evidence and interrogate witnesses, etc. We have today broken that principle in the case of children under the age of 13. They may be interrogated per year. video, and the video can later be played in court. That exception we are now extending with the proposal here, so that children, up to the age of 15, can be interrogated in this way via video. I must hurry to say that this is the case in cases of sex crimes, incest and violence in the family, etc. It is an excellent proposal because it spares children and young people the opportunity to explain often and often, in fact, three times in fact the first time in the police station, the second time perhaps in constitutional questioning and the third time in the city court and perhaps even once in the court of law. There are no children at all who can be served with that, so I think it is an excellent idea to extend the derogation in this way. I should just like to emphasise that there is, of course, room for the defender to attend the hearing in the children's house and ask counter-questions, etc. So we have no doubts about the proposal and can fully endorse it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144427	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144433	As has been said, this bill is about changing the rules on when children and young people can be video interviewed, and it is the result of a very thorough investigation that has taken place in the Criminal Services Committee in the Ministry of Justice. When you change the rules on who should or can be video-interviewed in criminal proceedings, a balance is being made, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. On the one hand, there is the need for what we call irremediability, that is to say that the evidence in criminal proceedings must take place immediately before the judicial court, so that both the judge, the prosecutor and the defender have the opportunity to have the questions put and answered as they please. On the other hand, of course, there is the concern for some particularly vulnerable victims and witnesses, especially children and young people, and especially if they are victims of some very terrible forms of crime. That is why we in the Enhedslist believe that it may be sensible to extend access to video interviews in order to protect children and young people even more than has been the case so far. And when these two opposing considerations are carefully weighed against each other, we can also support the bill. However, we have noted in the hearings that several of the children's houses which treat and help children who are victims of, for example, children. sexual abuse, points out that several video interviews will result in increased resource consumption among them. After all, children can be interrogated in those rooms to create a secure environment for them and to make the experience of having to retell what they have been exposed to a little more tolerable. We in the Enhedslist are quite concerned that the increased workload in children's houses in connection with video interrogations should not mean that the work they are doing in dealing with the particularly vulnerable victims of abuse will be harmed, and so we would very much like the Minister of Justice to respond to how to ensure that the necessary additional appropriations are made available for the children's houses. But as a starting point, we are therefore in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144649	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144704	This bill proposes to extend the use of so-called video interviews when children and young people have to give their explanations in the judicial system. Specifically, the proposal provides for video interrogations of children under 13 years of age in general, of children under 15 years of age in the case of sexual or violent crimes in the family, and of children under 18 years of age in the case of special circumstances. It is also proposed that adults over 18 years of age may take advantage of video interviews if they have serious mental disorders or other disabilities. Specifically, this means that, during an investigation, the child gives an explanation that is recorded on a video and subsequently presented as evidence during the trial, instead of the young person having to appear physically and be interrogated there. The aim of the proposal is therefore to take account of these young people who encounter the judicial system in connection with a crime for the first time in their lives, probably. The draft law is therefore a compromise between avoiding a traumatizing meeting with the judicial system and our fundamental principles of legal certainty. It is the view of the Liberal Alliance that a fine balance has been struck between the two considerations. In addition, it is important for us to point out that the proposal is based on recommendations from the Committee on Criminal Procedure. Your report concludes that the use of these video interviews should be extended, but at the same time limited to cases where the protection of the child or young person is exceptional. We believe that the use of video interviews is limited to specific cases, since it is quite fundamental that the defence is given the opportunity to put counter-questions to a witness as usual. In addition, the Criminal Procedure Committee points out that the assessment of whether to conduct a video interview with a person should, in the first instance, be carried out by the police and the prosecution in the context of the investigation. The suspect and the defense may subsequently disagree with that assessment and e.g. object to the evidence value of the video interview itself. If such a dispute arises, it is up to the judicial court to assess the probative value. That makes pretty good sense. I have therefore taken positive note of the fact that the Minister for Justice has made similar considerations in the drafting of the bill, and in this respect I should like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill and looks forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144931	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116144940	Thank you for the floor. The purpose of the draft law, as was also mentioned up here, is to ensure greater consideration of the vulnerable situation of children and young people when they have to give evidence in the judicial system and to ensure this in the context of the legal certainty of the accused person and the ability of the courts to take decisions on a proper basis of evidence. In the alternative, we fully support the proposal, which can improve the experience of vulnerable witnesses in the criminal process and the judicial system and reduce the psychological burden on children and young people. It is positive that consideration can be taken without compromising the legal certainty of the accused and without compromising on the principle of irremediability. We also note that an improved experience and expectation of the judicial system of witnesses can contribute to more people reporting the crime they have been subjected to. That confidence is absolutely essential for us as a society to feel secure relations with the judicial system. Hopefully, this will contribute to an increased reporting tendency, which is central to crime prevention. It sounds with the united voice of organisations dealing with these vulnerable children and young people that the proposal is an important step when it comes to children and young people's long-term healing process and their opportunity to put the event behind them. That is why we would like to see, like others. The Children's Council, Children's Conditions and the Children's Team of the Kingdom Hospital, which has helped to make recommendations on this proposal, that the extension of video consultation should include all children and young people up to 15 years of age regardless of the nature of the crime. However, according to the recommendations of the Criminal Procedure Committee, the scope of the scheme is primarily Chapter 24 of the Criminal Code on Sexual Crimes. The same applies to the issue of family violence, section 237 of the Criminal Code on killings and section 244 on violence. However, we are concerned that adequate consideration is being given to the child with these specifications. We support the recommendation by several child organisations that the same consideration should be given to the child in cases outside these specific areas, for example. in the case of violent crimes committed by a foreign person. The subsequent judicial process of such an event may pose an equal burden to the child and may be directly traumatizing. That is why we propose that, in these cases, it should be possible to assess in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis, regardless of the nature of the crime, how adequate consideration is given to the child and, therefore, whether this includes video consultation. Finally, we also hope that Chapter 11 of the report, which states that cases should be dealt with as quickly as possible, will be followed by concrete and specific instructions on how to resolve the problem of long waiting times, as it is considered essential for the child's subsequent healing. All in all, however, we are positive about the proposal and look forward to the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145213	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145222	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, too, we warmly support this bill, which, for good reasons, has been some time in the process of drafting the report. It comes to, I think, also with the support of the many organisations in the field • to help really, very many children and young people to get a better process after they have been subjected to such terrible crimes. Like the previous rapporteur, we in the Radical Left want and hope that this can be the first step in using new technology to take overall account of the children involved, including in matters that are not specifically covered in the paragraphs. So we hope it will be a consequence, if not immediately so in the longer term. But full support from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145322	Thank you. We shall continue the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145334	It can be stressful and traumatizing for children who are already particularly vulnerable to witness in court. Therefore, SF supports a system of video interrogations. With the change, we spare the children and relieve the psychological pressure that may be associated with witnessing. In future, we must ensure better conditions for children in the legal system, which is why the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145403	Thank you. I shall now pass on the floor to the next rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145414	Conservatives also support the bill. We are pleased that video interrogations of children in cases of sex crimes, incest and violence can take place until the child reaches the age of 15 instead of 13. We note that the consultation answers also support the proposal, which we regard as an improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145440	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145449	Thank you. Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive reception of the proposal. Children and young people suspected of being victims or witnesses of serious crimes are in a very vulnerable situation. When they have to give their explanations in the judicial system, we must treat them as carefully as possible within the framework of the legal certainty of the suspect and without forgetting the ability of the courts to judge evidence and make correct decisions. The bill improves the protection of these children and young people by, in particular, extending the use of video consultation. Video interviewing is a particularly gentle form of interrogation which allows the child or young person to begin the healing process early in the course of the investigation. Today, video interviews can only be conducted if the child is 12 years of age or younger, unless there are special circumstances. If the bill is adopted, in future, in cases of sexual crimes, incest or violence committed within the family, video interrogation of children and young people aged 13-14 will always be possible. Other children and adolescents under the age of 18 will be able to be interviewed if special circumstances warrant it. In short, it is about taking better care of the children who are exposed to these serious crimes. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further discussion here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, look forward to answering the questions raised here during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145612	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145628	The debate is open and the first speaker is the rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116145655	Thank you for the floor. This bill is in line with the bill we have just considered and is about the same matter, but this time it is the Faroe Islands. So the aim of the bill is to improve the protection of children and young people who are supposed to have been subjected to or witnessed a serious crime. This is what we want to do by extending the use of so-called video interviews. Today it is the case that video interviews are used as a starting point only if the child is under 13 years of age. But in future, this proposal would like video interviews to be carried out by children aged 13 and 14 years. During a video interview, the child or young person gives an explanation during the investigation of a criminal case that is recorded on video which is subsequently presented as evidence during the main proceedings in the courtroom, instead of the child or young person having to appear in person in court and be interrogated there. Video consultation must take place as soon as possible after the police report, and it must be carried out in a secure environment and by a specially trained video interviewer. Today video interrogations of children are already used, as mentioned, but only up to and including 12 years. This is a good and considerate way of getting the child's explanation, and the Socialists fully support the amendment that in future it will also apply to a little older children aged 13 and 14 in cases of sexual crimes, incest or violence committed within the family. It is a heavy burden for a child to have to give a statement or even testify against the immediate family, and therefore we should ensure in the law that it can be done in a way that the child feels secure. A legal provision is introduced whereby children and young people who have been video interviewed will, as a rule, be exempted from appearing in court later on. At the same time, of course, we must ensure that the suspect has the rights he or she should have. If a suspect opposes or defends the use of a video interview as evidence, the person concerned shall, as a starting point, refer the matter to the court within 4 weeks of the video hearing being carried out. It is also proposed that the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure, fully in line with the Danish Code of Procedure, should introduce a so-called two-tier principle of what is called access to justice within the prosecution. And what does that mean? This means that in future the prosecution's decisions on criminal prosecution can only be appealed to the nearest superior authority and with a time limit for appeal on the basis of four weeks. Today there is no time limit. Finally, the draft law introduces provisions on territorial validity for the Faroe Islands and Greenland into two amending laws on the subject. The Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150019	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and the next speaker is the rapporteur, Mr President. Henrik Brodersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150030	L 41, as the previous rapporteur also said, is an offshoot of what we have just considered, L 43. It is composed of several parts. On the other hand, this is about video interrogation of young people. On the other hand, there is some traffic law and some passport law, as well as a few minor adjustments relating to the supplementary pension for the labour market. It's primarily the section on video interrogation for young people under the age of 15, in special cases under the age of 18, if they somehow have some weaknesses in the mind that are the most important in this bill. The idea of video questioning rather than conducting a direct hearing in the courtroom is to spare the young person to sit in a courtroom face to face with his invader. So this is a tool for more flexibility in the process, which was introduced back in 2003 and has proved to be of great benefit, so that the child and the young person can be exempted from sitting in a crowded courtroom and answering questions that may be about things like violence or are of a sexual nature. The second and third parts of the bill, which deal with principles and time limits for appeal, the supplementary labour market pension, passports and some minor adjustments in the road traffic field, which are to apply to the Faroe Islands, have no authority either the police, the Court of Justice, the minister, the court of the Faroe Islands or any other court, nor has the Danish People's Party had any comments on this matter. That is why we say 'yes' to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150220	I would also like to thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150230	The proposal we are debating here is 99 per cent. I should like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. So, on behalf of the Left, I fully agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150254	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150312	Thank you. When changing the rules on who should or can be video-interviewed in criminal proceedings, a balance has to be made. On the one hand, the evidence in criminal proceedings must, as a starting point, take place immediately in front of the judicial court, so that both the judge, the prosecutor and the defender have the opportunity to ask and have answers to all relevant questions. On the other hand, there is the concern for particularly sensitive victims and witnesses in this connection, especially children and young people. The question is in what circumstances we can ignore the principle of what is referred to as 'immediate evidence', that is to say that we must be very much present at the trial, for the sake of children and young people to be questioned in criminal proceedings. It may be sensible to extend access to video interrogation so as to protect even more than hitherto children and young people who are to be questioned as witnesses or victims. The Justice and Justice Committee has weighed the two considerations and has concluded that access to video consultation should be extended. We welcome this because this extension of access to video consultation does not significantly damage legal certainty and the defendants' ability to have a fair trial. We have noted in the hearings that questions have been raised about the proposals. There is, of course, a parallel proposal for Greenland which we should have discussed in committee. However, we are in favour of the draft law, too, that it should apply in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150451	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150503	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill and we generally support the equivalence of justice in the Faroe Islands with the Danish when it is at the request of the Faroe Islands, which I understand is the case here. We support the draft law on the same grounds that we also supported L 43. The amendments on the introduction of the two-tier principle and the insertion of territorial provisions for the Faroe Islands are regarded as minor legislative adjustments and the draft law can therefore be supported overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150543	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150559	Thank you very much. Mrs Josephine Fock has already explained L 43 on behalf of the Alternative, and Mrs Karin Gaardsted has explained in great detail what this draft law, L 41, is about, so I do not need to repeat it all. But what I would like to say is that the draft law has not yet been dealt with by the Faroe Islands' home government. This will not be discussed until after 1 December. The Faroes Committee therefore decided to wait until after this date with the Danish Parliament, but yet the Ministry of Justice has put L 41 on the agenda today to deal with it at the same time as L 42 and L 43, which are of course identical draft laws on the protection of children in Greenland and the Faroe Islands and in Denmark. The bill will not be adopted until April, so immediately it would have been more logical to wait for all three legislative proposals, especially since L 42 has not been dealt with in Greenland either. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland have authorised parallel examination of the bill, but the alternative nevertheless finds it a desavour of Greenland and the Faroe Islands not to wait for their treatment. This is further regrettable, since the draft law will not enter into force until 1 April, so there would have been plenty of time for the debate. But we know what the attitude of the home regime is, and we, of course, follow that attitude and agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150730	Thank you. We shall continue with the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150741	Thank you for that, President. The Radical Left too can agree to the bill, which is quite simply the implementation of the legislative proposals we have just examined and which, of course, also make good sense in the Faroe Islands and later in Greenland, just as it does in Denmark. In principle, I agree with the observations made by Mrs Sandbæk that if it is possible at all, then it is better that we first deal with the legislative proposals in the other parts of the Kingdom community and then take them down here afterwards. So I hope this will be an exception to that rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150816	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150825	We must spare our children as well as possible, and the target group for this bill has already experienced more than they should. That is why the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150839	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150853	Allow me to join in my rapporteur's speech with the rapporteur on the next draft law, which is, of course, identical for Greenland. We think both legislative proposals are very good, and we do so for two reasons. Firstly, because the Faroe Islands and Greenland themselves want this harmonisation, one might call it that of the administration of justice in relation to Danish practice, and secondly because it is sensible proposals that give better rights to children. And then there are some technicalities in the field, which we also think are sensible. So all in all, it's a good bill. I agree that we must ensure that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are properly consulted in the process, but I also understand that there is an agreement that it is with the goodwill of the Faroe Islands and Greenland that we have them for first reading now. And by the way, I believe that the border should be closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116150953	Thank you. I do not see any rapporteur from the Faroe Islands in the Chamber, so I will continue with the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151004	For the sake of good order, I should like to draw the attention of the Conservative rapporteur to the fact that border closures are part of the territory of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and not of mine. In addition, I should first of all like to express my thanks for the positive reception given by the rapporteurs. It is true that it is identical to the legislative proposal we dealt with before. I am not going to repeat that speech, but the fact is that we are dealing with vulnerable young people, and that is where we owe it to us to make an effort to protect that vulnerability as much as possible. In relation to the issue of the submission of the bill, it is with the agreement of the Home Government of the Faroe Islands that the bill has been tabled, despite the fact that there is not yet an opinion from the Home Government. It is clear that as soon as an opinion is delivered, it will be sent to the Faroese Committee. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available for replies during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151104	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151121	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151145	Thank you. It is, of course, a legislative proposal that corresponds to what we have just considered, and that is why we probably do not need to go through everything. However, I think there are a few things I would like to mention. I mean, it's the concern for the child that we have with this legislation, and we have to hold on to that very much. And then we should also remember that in Greenland in particular there are very large distances, so it is also a protection for the child in terms of not having to far away from his village to be interrogated in a circuit. I agree in principle with the rapporteurs who have indicated that draft legislation on the Faroe Islands and Greenland should be dealt with in the Latting and Inatsisartut respectively before we deal with them here in the Folketing. So I think we should take this as the single swallow that is promised can be done. I just got a few more things. We must remember that this bill also means that the Council for the Law of Greenland will be extended by a district judge. We agree with that, of course. And I would just like to say that there is, of course, a generally positive response to the proposal, which most respondents believe will have a major impact on children and young people's ability to witness in a secure environment so that they can begin to deal with traumatic events. Both Greenland lawyers and the Greenland Human Rights Council point out that when substantial changes are made to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the And I recommend that the Greenland Committee take part in their committee work. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151348	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151358	Thank you. It is, of course, once again an end to the legislative proposal we started with, L 43, and as a starting point it is a question of how we shall be doing it as kindly as possible for these children and young people, when there have been some cases against them or something they have witnessed. There is, of course, what the previous rapporteur had to say, i.e. those huge distances seen with Danish eyes, which you have in Greenland, and that makes it a little more flexible if you can video-interview instead of sending people out on long journeys. Whether it should be made before or after it has been reversed in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, I can only say that once we have adopted it down here and the Faroese and Greenlanders can join it, we can of course put it into effect. We could also do the opposite and say that we could ask both the Greenland Parliament and the Faroese Parliament to approve a case up north and then perhaps face the situation that the bill was not adopted in Denmark. That wouldn't make any sense either. Now it's done, and I'm sure the Greenlanders and Faroese people who need to be heard about this video interview will be heard, and there's plenty of time to go into depth with it. This is primarily to spare the young people, and nobody has a problem with that in any way whatsoever, so the Danish People's Party is so much in agreement with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151539	Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151548	The draft law means that the Council of the Law of Greenland will be enlarged by one member, a district judge. We have no comment to make on that by the Left. We agree with that. In addition, the proposal is identical to the two previous proposals, including L 43, so I can refer to my comments under L 43. The Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151609	Thank you. Then we will continue with the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151619	I do not want to repeat the statement by our legal rapporteur and my own on why we support the content, but I would like to say that I am aware that we are now breaking an unwritten rule of having our two areas of autonomy dealt with before we deal with them. I would like to complain that in the Greenland Committee and the Ministry, at least, the majority of committees do not respect the unwritten agreements we have, not to deal with proposals that apply to the autonomy of Greenland and the Faroe Islands until they have dealt with things themselves. Sir. Henrik Brodersen is wrong. It is of course of no use that we, as an old colonial power, first adopt our laws, and then they can adopt them pro forma in their countries. They need to take a position first in their territories, and then we can look at whether we can implement the law of the whole Kingdom community. This must be the case if we call it self-government and not just assume that it is still a colony. In my opinion, there is no serious argument for not postponing the treatment until, in a few weeks' time, when you are finished in Greenland and then I can understand also in the Faroe Islands. It is a mistake and I would like a commitment from the committee chairmen, whatever committee it is, and from the minister that it will not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151744	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a brief comment. I'm sorry, I didn't see that. Sir. Christian Juhl, please come back to the platform. Enhedslisten's speeches please come back up. A brief comment was made by Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151810	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech. Now it is not quite an unwritten rule, because we have in fact written a letter in the Greenland Committee just over a month ago to the Prime Minister that we want a matter to be settled in Greenland before it is dealt with here in the Danish Parliament. There are also different possibilities, because if you look at the self-government law, you can see that there are among others. Paragraph 7 also states that cases should preferably be dealt with and that they should at least have an opinion. And we see in this case that, unfortunately, there is no report from the Legal Affairs Committee yet, that is, until we deal with it here in the Danish Parliament. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151848	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151850	It is quite true that it has been described in several places and that we have also decided things. But we have also written something in committee where a majority has then said that it has been chosen to ignore it. I do not think that is acceptable, and that is why I say that I would like to complain about the majority decision of the committee. I do not think the Minister could, in the end, just do it in practical terms today and then say that we are waiting to deal with these things and then we will take a first reading after the Greenlanders have finished. That wouldn't be a big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151925	The questioner on the second brief remark? No, thank you, says the questioner. So thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so the next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund, rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116151943	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill and generally supports equal treatment in the administration of justice in Greenland with the Danish, well to note when it is at the request of the Greenland Parliament, which in this case, however, is not yet fully clear. We support the draft law on the basis of the same explanatory statement as we also supported L 43, but we ask that the Government in future respect the Greenland Committee's decision that the legislative procedure in the Folketing should only be carried out after the end of the procedure with Greenland's self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152016	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152028	Thank you very much. The alternative, of course, also supports the bill, and then I would like to say to the Minister that the fact that people in Greenland and the Faroe Islands are polite people and say that we are allowed to treat something in parallel here is absolutely no excuse for doing so. There is no excuse that we have not waited for the final reading in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and I assume that this will be the last time this will happen. In any case, I know that the members of the committee will not put up with it another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152102	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152112	It will also be a repeat of the last legislative proposal. We also believe that the children in Greenland are entitled to the rights that are now being introduced both in Denmark and in the Faroe Islands. This must of course apply to the whole Kingdom community, but here too we have the quite fundamental view that it would be best if it were adopted in Greenland before it was adopted here. But it may be that the Minister of Justice has the opportunity to comment on it this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152140	Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152150	As with the two previous legislative proposals, we would also like to welcome the fact that efforts are being made to spare children and young people who have already experienced too much and thus help to put protection on them. That is why the SF supports the proposal. I can then add the comment we have made about it in the committees that SF too would, of course, prefer to see a process where in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands it is possible to deal with these proposals before they are dealt with in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152226	Thank you. I noted during the discussion of the previous draft law that Conservatives gave the rapporteur's speech on two legislative proposals. Then we have come to the conclusion that it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen as rapporteur for IA. Just take it easy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152252	Thanks for the bill. It is positive that the bill now provides for video interrogation of 13-14-year-olds. This helps to strengthen children's rights, which we are very concerned about in Inuit Ataqatigiit. In fact, during the spring session of 2014, we made the concrete proposal to increase the age limit for video consultation from 12 to 15 years. We are pleased that we are discussing the proposal today and that it appears to be adopted. We have not changed our position and we are pleased that the rest of the parties in Inatsisartut have agreed with us on this. We hope that in future it will provide greater protection for the child. Greenlandic lawyers have noted that they believe that the defence of the alleged attacker is adversely affected by the questioning of witnesses in connection with irremediability of evidence and the right to be heard against witnesses. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we choose to give priority to the rights of the child rather than the rights that may be in relation to the defence. We listen to the argument, but believe that the right of the child should come first on this issue. We also believe that the possibilities offered by the draft law for defence objections are sufficient in order to ensure a fair trial. However, we agree with Greenlandic lawyers in their argument that more detailed legislation and consultation should be carried out when it comes to the royal devices. As it is today, Greenland gets a worse version, or one might be tempted to say a bad copy, of the Danish legislation. Greenland's society is not served by this, and I would urge the government to take that on board, because there are alternatives. You can make Greenlandic parliamentary laws, or even better you can think of Greenland when new laws are envisaged in a number of areas that Denmark still handles on behalf of Greenland. This is among other things. in the field of family law and justice. This will ensure that the differences between Greenland and Denmark are taken into account at an early stage. It will also mean that the laws that we are given will be more up to date than what we are seeing today. In connection with this bill, we can see that the Danish law is from 2003, while the Greenlandic law was only updated in 2014. This is a clear example of how much time goes by before Greenlandic legislation under Danish authority is updated, and here I believe that the government should take a proactive responsibility and act with more due care. The Council for the Law of Greenland is being extended with the amendments to include district judges, and I would urge that the Institute for Human Rights, in cooperation with the Greenland Human Rights Council, be an observer in the Council for the Law of Greenland. This can help to ensure a focus on human rights in the Council. We in Greenland have good experience with video interviewing and have skilled video interviewers in Greenlandic society, so it is not our concern to extend the video questioning system. We also believe that consideration of the questioning of 15 to 17-year-olds should be taken seriously. We believe it is positive that this bill has taken account of children and young people with disabilities and that there is the necessary flexibility in relation to this area. Video consultation must take place as soon as possible, which is very positive. Inuit Ataqatigiit has worked to ensure that the treatment of sexually abused children also happens quickly. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. The national children's house, Saaffik, which had video interrogation as one of their offers, has unfortunately been downgraded. The facilities themselves are located in Nuuk, but it has been a nationwide children's house which should work throughout Greenland. We would like work to be done to find more places for video interrogation and for the treatment of sexually abused children, so that we give priority to early action rather than late action. As it is today, help is given, 30-40 years after the person has experienced an attack, rather than prioritising help right after a sexual assault, or even better to prevent sexual abuse. I have to say this because the last study on the well-being of young people showed that 32%. of the girls in the survey and just under 10%. of the boys in the study have experienced a sexual assault. Unfortunately, the sad statistics have the same high figures as in 2004, so, despite a number of measures, there has been no significant improvement in the high number of sexual assaults on children. I would urge the government to engage in dialogue with Naala Suisut in order to secure permanent suitable premises. Then I have to say that this has not been a very pretty process. There are several in the Greenland Committee who have wanted this point to be postponed until it was finalised in Greenland, and I think it is really a pity that we have not chosen to listen to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152810	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one more brief remark. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152815	I would like to ask the rapporteur what she thinks there can be of benefit in postponing it. In formal terms, what is to be said is a staggered process, but what advantages does the rapporteur see in waiting until the Greenlanders have finished dealing with their part of this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152836	Thank you very much. After all, it gives the clear advantage of listening to Greenland and hearing what Greenland has said in this question. After all, it has not been finally dealt with in the Legal Affairs Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee has not produced their report yet, so it is a process that is still running away in Greenland. As I said, I think it is a bad thing, and we ourselves signed a letter on 10 October this year in the Greenland Committee saying that we are waiting and hearing what Inatsisartut has to say about the matter before we deal with it in the Folketing, and I think we should follow that as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152907	The questioner on the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152908	As I understand it, it is the government officials who have responded on behalf of the government in Greenland. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152919	I cannot answer that one hundred per cent safely, but I can say that in Greenland we have a discussion about whether it is the parliament that is the government's employer or whether it is the other way around. In any case, my view is that Parliament should be listened to, including in Greenland, and, in particular, with the history that we have had, the necessary respect should be shown in relation to the parliament in Greenland. So I think it is a rather sad development and I hope it will not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116152946	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur at this stage is Mrs Aleqa Hammond, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153000	Thank you. Every child must be loved, protected and guaranteed the best framework for a good life, no matter where in the world he may be. Each child must feel secure in the family, in society and in a well-functioning legal society. We have far too many children and young people, including in Greenland, who are subjected to sexual crimes, incest and violence. Children and young people have serious consequences on body and soul when they are subjected to unforgivable criminal acts. As elected representatives, it is our job to provide children and young people with the best conditions for a safe and secure upbringing. It is therefore appropriate that we together improve legal certainty for children and young people, among others. to raise the age limit for video interrogation. In Greenland we are aware of the serious problem we have in society, with far too many victims of sexual crimes, incest and violence. For this reason, Naalaksuisut and Inatsisartut have for a number of years taken extensive action to strengthen the efforts of young people and children who have been subjected to sexual abuse and to combat this in all walks of life. All actions are welcome and all actions are taken seriously and seriously. Multiple efforts have been launched in the form of travel teams and practitioners, information campaigns, debates and courses and treatment centres for people with late sexual abuse during childhood. The rules on video questioning of children were first examined by Inatsisartut at the 2014 spring session, where Inatsisartut's legislative committee welcomed the proposal. Both Inatsisartut's members and the Inatsisartut's legislative committee, however, demanded that the age limit be changed from 12 to 15 years. The requirement to change the age limit has helped the rules on video consultation now to be changed throughout the Kingdom community. This summer the bill was for consultation in Greenland. I think it is extremely important to listen when some of the consultation parties say that the draft law has some shortcomings. According to the United Nations Children's Convention, Article No. 1, persons under the age of 18 are considered children. Therefore, in his hearing answer, the child speaker in Greenland calls for consideration to be given to giving children under the age of 18 the same opportunity for video questioning. I agree with this view because serious crimes are involved when children under the age of 18 are subjected to sexual crimes, incest and violence. Furthermore, the child speaker recommends that children should not testify in court but in specially adapted rooms, taking into account the child's cognitive and emotional development and condition. Unfortunately, it is today that there is no entirely secure framework and premises for video interrogations of children taking place in Greenland. Often it is a hotel room or other completely random places it takes place. Children might have to wait in hotel foyers or the like to be video interviewed, and they are put off in public space in a reckless way. It is important that there is a good and secure framework for a child to be video interviewed in. A child who has been subjected to sexual abuse shall not be subjected to further unnecessary distraction in connection with a video interview. We must have these framework conditions in society, and I would like to hear the Minister's proposals for improvements. The legal certainty of the child must also be guaranteed in this context. The Social Appeals Board in Greenland requires that the condition that the suspect should be one of the closest to the persons is removed because the burden on the child is particularly high when the child sees a family member being subjected to killing or violence. The Greenland Human Rights Council points out that efforts should be made to ensure that the duration of proceedings is as short as possible in this type of case, possibly by setting some indicative time limits in the legislation. I think this is extremely important. With regard to the best interests of children, protection and legal certainty, I agree with the above considerations, requirements and recommendations. But first of all, it is Inatsisartut who has to deal with the bill. That is why, with respect, I shall await the attitude of Mr Inatsisartut in relation to the draft law, which I think is quite natural. This bill will be submitted to the Folketing in agreement with Naalaksuisut, although the proposal will not be taken second reading in Inatsisartut in just over 3 weeks. I disagree with this practice because we cannot take a position on the draft law when Inatsisartut has not finished it yet. A majority in the Greenland Committee has said that it is opposed to it being taken up today in the Danish Parliament and that we are discussing the bill here today, most in the Greenland Committee were against it. But we have chosen not to listen to the majority of the Greenland Committee's position. I do not think that is quite right and I hope that this is only the one time it is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153505	There is one for a brief remark. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153511	Qujanaq. Thank you very much. You mention that you disagree with the practice that several parties have also mentioned. I'm thinking that you're a vice-chairman of the Greenland Committee, so what could you do, and what should you do to ensure that this letter, which we have made ourselves in the Greenland Committee, is also followed forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153535	I think it is quite natural that the chairman of the Greenland Committee or of any committee should ensure that the wishes of the majority in a committee are followed and that the chairman is a single figure for the entire committee. I think that the way in which the process has been conducted is under all criticism. I also think that we should take it up in the Greenland Committee, in other words take it up with our chairman, and ensure that the wishes of the majority are followed. I see no reason why we should rush through such an important point as this. I think it is extremely important that we hear Mr Inatsisartut's position and points of view and other important issues they raise in relation to such an important legislative proposal. When it comes to issues that are very important to us and to very, very serious matters, I think it would have been appropriate to show respect for the majority of members of the Greenland Committee by our opinions being heard by our chairman. I think that is something we should address in the Greenland Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153633	The questioner for the second brief remark. Maybe I should remind you that we're not addressing each other with you, but in the third person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153640	Thank you very much. Now it is the case that we have dealt with this matter by e-mail in the Greenland Committee and did not have a physical meeting. But perhaps I also missed the Vice-President interfering in the debate on this. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about as Vice-President of the Greenland Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153704	Now it is the President who convenes meetings. I have been equally active in our e-mail correspondence and also expressed my very clear position. I have said that Parliament must wait until the matter is settled in Greenland. Because I think it would be appropriate, in relation to such an important issue, that we in the Danish Parliament have at least also seen the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs in Greenland before we take it up here. It is very important what the report points out when we have to work on it in the Greenland Committee. I certainly think that the process here up to today is under all criticism, and I think that the entire Greenland Committee should address the issue so that in future we do not get this messy approach to such an important piece of legislation here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153752	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116153806	I believe that the content of the legislative proposal in question is clear, as we have now dealt with three uniform legislative proposals. I think I owe it to say that the draft bill of 3 July was sent to the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland with a view to a presentation to self-government. It was decided to work against bringing forward the bill amending both the Danish, Greenlandic and Faroese procedural law in early November. This means that there were well over two months to plan and consider in. The Ministry of Justice therefore asked to receive the self-government's opinion by 1 November, and since it was clear that there would not be an opinion until after the planned date of submission, the Ministry of Justice agreed with the government that the bill could be tabled even if there was no opinion yet. Now I am not going to advocate not listening to parliaments, but it is the executive authorities that we communicate with in this context, and if there is a problem, then the Greenland political body must raise that issue with the executive authorities in Greenland. So we have been given that commitment, and that is, of course, what we are looking for. The alternative, as I have heard someone say, was that all three legislative proposals had to wait. This means that other parts of the realm would then have to wait for residents of that part of the realm to wait for the treatment for which there is no basis, and it can be said in this context that the statement from Greenland will be included in the draft law. So I cannot give a promise that this will not happen again, because the situation is that if parts of the kingdom are to suffer in this way, others, where the executive authority also indicates that it is safe to continue, then in that situation I would think it was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154002	Was that the speech? The Minister of Justice, that was my speech, yes. And thank you for your support for the bill. ) There are three brief comments, so please remain standing. The first is sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154012	Thank you. Now the Minister chose to talk about the formal matters relating to this. I remember that the previous government, the Socialist-led government, also made the same mistake, but only once, because then they admitted that it was a mistake. I even think that the Minister's own party was involved in the accusation of the injustice that was in making it when it was the Socialist-led government. I think it is a good idea if we have the same approach to how we treat Greenland and the Faroe Islands, regardless of which government we have, and I would like to know whether it is only formal. There could be real things that the Minister cannot then get into the legislation, and then it would be foolish not to have thought about in time and given the time needed, not least in view of the Minister's wish for it to come into force on 1 April, which means that we have plenty of time to deal with this legislative set of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154111	That is precisely the point, therefore, that there is plenty of time for the statement in question to come before the third reading, and that is why there is no immediate problem, and that is why we must be careful not to turn this into a debate on formalities and, moreover, something which, for me, easily takes on the character of domestic political disputes, where there is a difference between what Parliament thinks and what the executive authority thinks, and I will not, frankly, as the Danish Minister of Justice, take a position on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154137	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154139	After all, the Minister is a member of the Left Party at the same time, so it could be that he could also consider his thoughts there. We have dealt very recently with L 27, which dealt with industrial injury legislation in Greenland. It is not certain that the Minister can remember it, but there we made a number of differences in relation to the Danish legislation, and I thought it was a very, very good example that because of the special conditions in Greenland we did not make a copy of the legislation, we simply took quite good care and made what I think is improvements for the Greenlanders compared to the Danish legislation. It shows precisely that by thinking about and giving the time that is needed, we can easily do things that are better in qualitative terms and then not just relate to the formal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154235	I think sir... Christian Juhl completely misunderstands what I am saying, because it will also be possible here. There will be time for that in the process that is. Moreover, the majority in the Folketing is free at any time to postpone legislative proposals, etc., if that is what they want. So I don't quite understand what it is, sir. Christian Juhl is referring to. If a majority of Parliament's parties want to postpone this procedure, you can do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154258	The next brief remark is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154302	Thank you very much. Fortunately, this is now a relatively uncomplicated issue that we are dealing with, because fortunately there is support for strengthening children's rights in Greenland, so it is really positive. But one could imagine that we were dealing with a matter that was more complicated, and it could be said that it would be a real shame for the Danish Government to send a message to Greenlandic society that we are not awaiting treatment in Inatsisartut. As I have said before, very constructively, I think there are alternatives. There are possibilities for making statements and there could be a dialogue with Mr Inatsisartut that there was a report. So there are, of course, some different alternatives that could be pointed out in order to ensure a rather prettier process than the one we are seeing here, so I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154353	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154355	Well I have no views on the constitutional relationship between the parliamentary procedure between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. As I immediately recall, this is a matter for the Prime Minister and it will be something that the Greenlandic authorities, the Faroese authorities and the Prime Minister's Office will have to discuss if necessary. Quite frankly, this is not something that I would like to go into immediately. On the other hand, I have welcomed the fact that we in the Ministry of Justice have now established an office to deal separately with Greenlandic and Faroese, i.e... North Atlantic issues, and that by doing so, we will be able to bring together and harmonise the approach we have and to resolve the challenges that exist in the areas concerned more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154445	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154446	Thank you very much. Now it is the case that a large number of the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland belong to the Ministry of Justice, so I think it would be appropriate to take a position on it, not necessarily today, but at least in the future. And yes, it's positive that this North Atlantic office has been set up. One of the things I am calling for is that modern laws should be made, as Mr. Christian Juhl also mentioned. I would very much like to hear whether we are willing to carry out a systematic review of the laws in force in order to be able to draw up an action plan to update the laws so that we can correct justice in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154532	The purpose of the office in question is at least to stop the somewhat spatial treatment of the area which has been seen in the past and where there have been problems with updating the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154544	The next brief remark is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154549	This is not a question of whether you have enough time to deal with a bill. This is about principles, and this is about respect for the work of the Greenland Parliament and about hearing what they have to say to a legislative proposal that has been presented today for discussion. I think it would be quite natural for our colleagues in the Folketing also to have had some insight into what are some points that are taken seriously and seriously up in Greenland and that are of great importance to our legislative work here. This isn't a matter of time. It is a matter of respect and principles. I could understand that this was not a question of whether the executive in Greenland is voicing approval or not. As legislator, we must be allowed to have the time we need and listen to each other to ensure that it is the best possible legislation that is being made in both parliaments. I hope that the Left Government will not set a precedent for legislation here without hearing what the Greenland Parliament has said to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154658	Again: You can start discussing this from quite different perspectives from what the bill is really about. I can only say that the Ministry of Justice has been in contact with the national government, which has agreed that it could be dealt with. And if Mrs Aleqa Hammond has problems with that, I suggest that the Greenland Government should be criticised in this context, not the Minister of Justice in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154717	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154719	This is not a question of my criticizing the Home Rule Government of Greenland. They do their job. The bill has been sent to the Legal Affairs Committee and is under consideration by the Legal Affairs Committee. But that is the way it is addressed here: that we do not even have time to wait for the report that will be submitted on the draft law in Greenland, that we have to rush it through, knowing that we have plenty of time. I do not think that is quite right. So I hope that at least the North Atlantic Justice Office will also have the ability to listen to and hear what is said up there first before it is discussed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154759	I can assure Mrs Aleqa Hammond that if the national government had opposed it, we would not have tabled it. I therefore call on the questioner once again, if one has a criticism to make of the fact that it is being discussed with the national government in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154811	The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154816	Thank you very much. The Minister said that if a majority in the committee wants to postpone the debate, it can be done. However, the majority in the Greenland Committee wanted the debate to be postponed. Afterwards, when we were told by the Ministry that they wanted to deal with it, we did not insist in the Greenland Committee. I actually tried to insist a little that we should postpone it in any case. So we have not followed a majority in committee. In this case, the order of the factors doesn't really matter. No one had asked the Ministry to contact Greenland and say: Listen, why have you failed to meet your deadline? What do we do now? Can't we treat it anyway? One might well have had the coalition that one simply waited to table the bill. I think it would suit the Minister to say that we do not intend to do that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154910	I have not said anything about a majority in a committee. I said: a majority in the Folketing. And it doesn't necessarily have to be the same. So I think that Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, when she quotes me, ought to quote me correctly. In relation to the question of the national government, I have to say again that if the national government had told us that they wanted the matter to be postponed, we would have done so. That was not the case. On the contrary, it was intended that the law should enter into force at the same time as the possibility which, moreover, is opened up in the rest of the kingdom to others. That is how the country is, and if you want to scold the Danish Minister of Justice for it, I must live with it, but that is the way things are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154946	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116154948	I would just like to say that of course you are polite in Greenland. If you get a request from the Danish Ministry of Justice, which like to suggest that you say that you can give permission to do so, then you do so, of course. Greenland would never stand on its hind legs in this. I do not think Greenland can be blamed for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116155010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116155011	I do not actually fully understand that, because it sounds to me as if it is a very important matter of principle, which I cannot quite understand. If it had been, we would of course have respected the expression of the national regime in this context. To be honest, I have to say that when many people have said that this is about the best interests of the children, and this is suddenly becoming a policy, perhaps I am a little puzzled. We will have time in the legislative process to include the statements that come from Greenland, so this will have a proper treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116155047	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151116155103	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 November 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
