ParlaMint-DK_20150317130016	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Per Clausen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 95 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of GMO cultivation in Denmark). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-96 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a ban on the storage of home defence weapons). Trine Mach (SF) and Rosa Lund (EL): Request no. F 25 (Will the government explain its family policy in general and how it intends to do something for pressured families of children in Denmark with an imbalance between work and family life, including what initiatives the government intends to take, and the government's attitude to opportunities, for example, for a better distribution of work and for caring days according to a model of Swedish and other inspiration from surrounding countries?). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and Christian Juhl (EL): Enquiry no. F 26 (How will the government support the respect of the people's right to self-determination when a large majority of the Catalan Parliament, the Catalan community and the Catalan Government wish to hold a referendum on independence?). Question No. F 28 (What can the Government say about the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, including the attitude of the Danish and Turkish Governments towards this genocide and the importance of respecting the rights of national, ethnic and religious minorities?). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Question No. F 27 (How will the government, in the light of the current European debate following the Greek elections, support economic development and employment in Europe and a realistic solution to the debt issue in the EU countries most affected by the crisis?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). On 9 March 2015, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior approved the Alternative's notification of the party's participation in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. Under Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the alternative (ALT) is then a parliamentary group, and Uffe Elbæk has informed me that he wishes to represent this group in the Folketing. As of 13 March 2015, Uffe Elbæk represents the Alternative in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130201	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 32 by Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV), Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr-Bæhr (EL) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 88 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against voting 21 (DF, LA, Lars Barfoed (KF) and Charlotte Dyremose (KF)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 32 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 31 by Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Leif Mikkelsen (LA) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130319	Does anyone wish to comment on the committee's position? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130342	A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. The recommendation was adopted unanimously by 110 votes. This decision will now be notified to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130431	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130521	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130548	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then I propose that the draft law should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130628	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130705	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130736	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate has ended here too. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130810	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130843	Before we open the debate, I would ask that a few conversations be left outside. Yeah, a little more quiet! Then the debate is open, and that is Mrs Karen Ellemann as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317130904	Thank you for the floor, President, and not least the sound of your ears. With this bill, which we now have to deal with first, the government is proposing that we transfer responsibility for the administration of a number of services from the municipalities to Payout Denmark. It is the case today that Disbursement Denmark is responsible for the payment of a national pension, of housing aid, of maternity and other family benefits, and the proposal here is that there are a number of additional benefits now to be transferred from the municipalities to Disbursement Denmark, for example. If you are entitled to an unemployment benefit, you are entitled to an oldage pension in accordance with the legislation of the Member State in which you are insured. This then presupposes that at the same time there is also a register coordination and that a central data unit is created in Payout Denmark. In the bill that we are now considering, register coordination and the acquisition of non-sensitive personal data are a new means, can one say that it is being used, and so we are naturally concerned with assessing proportionality, because this means that we want to achieve with Payout Denmark's activities? The goal of the entire Payout Denmark's activities is, of course, to ensure the correct payment of benefits and also to prevent social fraud. We are not opposed to this, of course, and I therefore very much agree with the comments made in the draft law, which states that it will strengthen the legal certainty of the individual citizen and perhaps even the confidence in it, the overall welfare state. So it's definitely positive. Then there is the element of preventing and avoiding social fraud, and there, of course, we in the Left are of the view that social fraud must be combated, because there is something that really undermines trust in common public welfare, but then it is cheating on public services. We have been a little worried about the discussion on the legal certainty of citizens when we talk about register collusion here, but we have noted that the bill derogates from the provisions of the Personal Data Act that the consent of the citizen must be obtained when personal data are disclosed. However, the questions we have raised in relation to both legal certainty and proportionality have been given good and reassuring answers, and we have also noted that both the Ministry of Justice and the Data Protection Agency have considered that this is in fact in line with EU law, and no question has been raised by either of the two authorities about the proportionality itself. So I would like to sign for the good dialogue we have had with the Minister for Social Affairs in connection with the preparation of this bill. On the Left side, we believe that a fine balance has actually been achieved in the draft law, a balance between ensuring, on the one hand, effective and fair payment of benefits and, on the other hand, avoiding social fraud and the need for individual legal certainty. Against this background, I would like to state here at first reading that the Left intends to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317131234	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Simon Kollerup as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317131242	Unfortunately, the Socialist Socialist rapporteur, Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, is prevented from taking part in the first reading here today, which is why I am going to read the rapporteur's speech on behalf of her. When you manage the community's money, you have a responsibility to ensure that the money is spent in the best and most efficient way, and you have a responsibility to set up the system in a way that makes mistakes as few as possible with the community's money. We Social Democrats are very aware of this. If we are to continue to have a strong welfare society, we need to spend the money properly both because we cannot afford to climb them away, but also because our welfare society must be run efficiently and fairly. That is what the proposal here today is about. The proposal contains two parts. In the first part it is proposed to move the administration of five schemes from the municipalities to Payout Denmark. These schemes are assistance to residents of Denmark, flex benefits, partial pensions, funeral grants and international health insurance. When the administration of these schemes is brought together in Payout Denmark, we can save money. The efficiency of transferring the five areas is estimated at approx. 45% of the current resource consumption. At full phase-in after 9 months we will be able to save 22 million. kr. annually deducted from expenditure on implementation. It is money that we will be able to spend on other welfare in the municipalities. The second part of the bill is about getting rid of wrong payments. This is both outright cheating, but also accidental human error, both by the authorities and by the citizens. An analysis carried out by Deloitte last year shows that wrong payments are much better combatted with registers than with e.g. anonymous reviews. Therefore, the second part of the bill is that Payout Denmark should be able to set up a data unit to create precisely registry interconnections. In addition, the unit must be able to obtain information from foreign authorities upon request from the municipalities. Register coordination will take place on the basis of the powers that the individual authorities already have today to perform interconnections, but since it will be expensive for each municipality to acquire and continuously develop a system for register coordination, it makes better sense instead to use the systems and competences already built up by Payout Denmark. That's what we're doing with the new data device. Payment Denmark is given the opportunity to carry out the interconnections on behalf of the other authorities, but in some areas the proposal, however, extends the possibilities. These are some new types of interconnections of non-sensitive information which the municipalities and the Higher Education Agency have not so far been able to do. However, it is important to stress that this extension does not go beyond the opportunities already available to Denmark in its own jurisdiction. Popularly, it can be said that the toolbox that Payout Denmark already has today in their own areas is also being given the opportunity to use in some new areas that are being transferred. It is therefore a question of harmonizing the possibilities of interconnection, which will provide more uniform controls across areas of performance. I would like to put a thick line on the fact that the proposal does not move authority powers from, for example. municipalities to Payout Denmark. It is only a question of paying out Denmark being given the competence to obtain non-sensitive personal data first, then to make comparisons, and finally to give the results of the interconnections to the authorities. It is still the respective authorities which decide on the basis of the results of the consultations. With the proposal, we transfer the administration of five tasks to Disbursement Denmark to a transfer, which will free up funds for other things in our society, and in addition, the bill means that we are more likely to prevent and combat wrong payments. Both are something that strengthens the economy and trust in our welfare societies, and that is why the Socialists can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317131649	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317131657	Thank you. There are several main elements of this proposal. There is the transfer of a number of tasks from the municipalities to Disbursement Denmark; it is about compliance assistance, funeral grants, international health insurance cases, flexitime and part-retirement. It is in itself merely a continuation of the development that has been going on for a long time, when Payout Denmark takes care of the basic proceedings in grant cases to citizens, where it is primarily about objective criteria for the award of grants of different kinds. In a sense, it has proved to be an appropriate way of carrying out those tasks. The problem with Payout Denmark arises for me to see where Payout Denmark should have contact with citizens, i.e. where the systems are not running properly, where citizens need help in searching, understanding or correcting information and applications. I have many requests from citizens who cannot get through, who cannot get a proper explanation or who have different explanations. When we consider a proposal to move more areas to Payout Denmark, we will also have to discuss whether the service part to citizens, which is also part of the task, is being solved in the best possible way today. How do we ensure that there is a service in the future to those citizens who are not so much in relation to the digital, who are not persistent enough to wait to get through the telephone locks and who are unable to penetrate the system • the citizens who need to continue to be able to come and talk to another person about the issues they have? We need to discuss whether we do not still have to have a personal citizen service for those people, whether we do not have to accept that not everything can be digital and that the system also has to have a human face. This might mean rethinking the structure: Is it necessarily the best solution to move the entire handling to Payout Denmark? Or do we have to consider and say that there must continue to be an entrance for the citizens of each municipality, a door to the public for the individual citizen? That would then mean that the employee behind this door should have an opportunity to help the citizen. The citizen's experience should be that the system has only one door, only one face. In addition, the proposal lays down the creation of a data unit under the auspices of Payout Denmark, and it is in this context that the concept of admiration lists manifests itself. These are lists that Payout Denmark today makes for its own use and that, according to the proposal, they will be able to make for the municipalities in the future. These are the lists of citizens that are created from data searches where the data do not seem to fit fully with the services that citizens receive. This may be in relation to both the low level of benefit and the cheating of benefits. According to the proposal, the lists are sent to the municipalities for further processing. Citizens are not informed that they are on the lists until the caseworker has assessed whether there is anything to proceed with. It could, for example, be done. be because it is well known in the municipality that although the data may look strange, it is actually correct with the way the service is provided. Where there is a problem with these lists, there is no clear description in the proposal of the procedures for handling and deleting the lists. It is based on agreements between Payout Denmark and the municipalities. It may also be that it should be included in the agreements, but since lists of citizens are handled, where there is a suspicion in the nature of the lists, just hear the description, admiration lists. At the same time, I also understand that it makes no sense to legislate on when the lists should be drawn up in detail and how quickly the municipalities should deal with them. On the other hand, it must be a requirement for legislation to describe how the agreements to be concluded between the control unit and the municipalities contain clear guidelines on how the lists are drawn up, used and destroyed, including when citizens are to be informed of the handling of cases. So in those words, I would say that there are just a few things we need to clarify in relation to that bill before we in the Danish People's Party can decide whether we can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132108	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132111	Thank you to the rapporteur. I fully agree with the rapporteur that all this digitisation and centralisation is going to be contrary to a good personal citizen service, but excuse me, isn't it a little late for the Danish People's Party to think of it? This was something that should have been secured at the time of 2010, when the Danish People's Party, together with the VK government, adopted this whole project on Payout Denmark. That is where we should have made sure that it did not affect the personal service of the citizen. So how will the rapporteur now make sure that it is introduced when the whole project, apart from some corners that we are dealing with today, has already been implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132155	But you can easily discuss when you should have paid more attention to these issues. We have had the concern of day one, and I have to say that with the developments we have seen today, there is a challenge in this area. That is why I am addressing it here in relation to the specific legislative proposal, because I think it is necessary that we have this discussion, that we find out that one thing is that you can digitally handle some things, use the information you have, but something else is that we have to look at this one more time and ask: how do we ensure a system where citizens actually have a place to go with their concerns, have a place to go with their questions and can be sure that they get answers? What the hopes have been for, how the system would work better, I should not be able to say today, that is, what was thought at that time many years ago, but today I can just see the consequence of it, and that is why I think we have to take it up and get it fixed so that it will work out for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132245	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132247	Thank you, we are still agreed on this, and I would like to cooperate with the Danish People's Party on this, although I fear that we are on our own. My question is: why did one vote in favour of the creation of Payout Denmark when one did not have a guarantee from the outset that it would not go beyond the personal citizen service? That is what puzzles me very much, and by the way, I am curious how we can possibly influence the process. But I think it is very good just to get an answer to that. This should have been ensured from the outset, when you had some power and influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132322	Well, at that time we have believed that it could be done and that a proper civil service could be established in this context. This has proved to be problematic for large groups, and this has become more and more problematic. Therefore, just to give a simple answer that could be worked towards • you could say that we have citizen service still away, there still exists a citizen service out there in all municipalities. It might well be that we should take some competence back to the Citizen Services Centres and say that they can actually help citizens, that they can actually make contact with Payout Denmark or to SKAT or to other places and at that point be the citizens' service that they would actually like to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132400	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132408	Thank you. In Denmark we have a strong welfare system. We are pleased and proud of this in the Radical Left. Our welfare society is, of course, based on the payment of the right benefits to the citizens, and that is why I am going to dive into the part of the proposal that is about it, because unfortunately we can see that today there are errors in payment for a fairly considerable amount of money. After all, it is not just a question of people cheating; it is also a question of mistakes being made by both citizens and authorities, perhaps because some information has not just been updated. We have an interest in not paying too little or too much to people. We have had Deloitte to investigate whether it is most appropriate and less resource-intensive if we are using a register merger, and it is actually much more effective than basing such a control effort on, for example, one. anonymous reviews. At the same time, we can also see that it would be quite expensive and difficult if it were, like the individual municipality, to acquire and develop such a register interconnection system, and that is why, with this proposal, we propose to use the system and competences already in Payout Denmark. In the Radical Left, we have put great emphasis on legal certainty in this proposal, and there are two points in particular that are important to us. Firstly, Denmark must only register together non-sensitive personal data, and that is to say the information that you have on an objective basis about income and wealth, residence and address, and whether you are single, cohabiting, married or having children. On the other hand, Payout Denmark is not allowed to compile sensitive personal data. This means, for example, that in no circumstances should Payouts be allowed to run a register of information on health and medication use or the like, nor should they check whether, for example, you can check whether or not you have access to data on health and medicines. If you have been to a psychologist, have applied for a divorce, get assistance from the municipality, or if you are on the criminal record, you will qualify for an early retirement pension. It's clearly defined in the bill here. Secondly, we, as citizens, must be assured by the fact that the link between registers is not being stored anywhere. Payout Denmark is not allowed to go into the areas belonging to the municipalities itself, and therefore Payout Denmark will send a list of the things you might be worried about to the individual municipality, and it is then up to the municipality to assess whether you want to go further into the matter. As soon as Payout Denmark has forwarded the list, it must be deleted as soon as possible. As citizens, therefore, we should not be registered anywhere, either at Payout Denmark or in the municipality. One can only see that there has been a merger of registers in cases where the municipality has actually gone ahead with it and has made a decision, for example. to stop or change the performance. And it is very important to me that no decision can be taken either on the basis of the interlocking of registers alone; it will always require the municipality to go further into the matter. This will enable the Radical Left to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132740	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132743	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I should just like to ask how the rapporteur views information on citizens' lives. It's something that concerns citizens' privacy, isn't it? And what does the rapporteur mean by the fact that such information on the cohabitation of citizens can now be linked in registers and passed on to other public authorities without the consent of the citizen? Does the rapporteur really think that this is reassuring for legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132812	After all, in this bill, it is very clearly defined what to register together and what not to register together. We must confuse what is not sensitive to personal information, whereas under no circumstances can we reconcile what is sensitive to people. And I can give you an example of this with a residence relationship: if a single-parent child allowance recipient has previously had a partner who has moved to a new address, then Payout Denmark may examine how many people live at that address. It can, for example, be done. be a little strange to see that he has an address in a one-bedroom apartment with four other men. Then it could well be that there was a basis for going further into the matter. But vice versa, Payout Denmark is not allowed to carry out a register coordination of consumer information, i.e. electricity and water consumption, to see if it's true. So it is simply completely delineated when it is sensitive and when it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132912	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132915	Thank you. I asked if the rapporteur would agree that information on cohabitation, in other words who you live with, is something that concerns privacy. That is, of course, what the Data Protection Agency has serious concerns about in relation to that bill, as there is now increased access to collate such information and pass it on to other authorities without the consent of the citizen. We are not talking about the fact that it cannot be necessary to investigate it. We all agree on that. What is central and about which the Data Protection Agency's criticism is that it will therefore be possible to pass on this information without the consent of the citizen. And that is where I ask: is it reassuring for legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317132958	It is, of course, a concrete assessment where the cut should be added. I think we have found the right balance to distinguish between what is like objective information and what is sensitive information. And then there's the mechanism that says that once you've done the register coordination, the municipality gets a list, and then it's decided whether or not it makes sense to go ahead with the case. I therefore think that we have found the balance that needs to be achieved between having access on one side to register collusion and, on the other, ensuring that it is not on the person-sensitive information.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133036	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133043	In the SF, we are, from the outset, positive about making public sector administration as easy, simple, efficient and flawless as possible, and we would like to let those who are good at doing something do it. Therefore, we in the SF believe that it is a good idea to transfer authority responsibility in these selected areas to Payout Denmark, which is responsible for and experience in the payment of a wide range of social benefits. Having said that, there are a number of elements in the proposal which are of concern to us, and we would like them to be clarified and discussed in the further work of the committee before we can finally approve the proposal. And four major concerns are what I really want to spend my time on from here. The first goes on additional work for the municipalities. What is the task of the municipalities if the proposal is adopted? A number of savings of about 22 million will be estimated. kr. in the municipalities, which they seem to be able to use in other areas. But it is the case that the municipalities have to deal with the admiration lists that Payout Denmark prepares and transmits, and then work is expected to continue in the municipalities in this area. For us, it is at least unclear what the scope of those tasks is and whether they are offset by the estimated savings that came with the proposal, and we would like that to be clarified. It is absolutely crucial for us that the tasks of the municipalities are clear, clear and funded and that the assumed efficiency gains from this are actually linked. Secondly, we think it might be a good idea for data- and register-competent people in Payout Denmark to draw up so-called admiration lists, although we do not think it is a particularly precise legal concept. However, if it can help municipalities to find and correct errors in the payment of social benefits, there may be an idea in it. And, of course, those criteria must be publicly available. But we really do not have a description of how the data provided can and should be stored and processed in the municipalities. Although it may not be data of what is called a sensitive character, it must, of course, be treated properly, respectfully and fairly. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain how we ensure that data is properly stored, processed and destroyed in the municipalities. A quite trivial question that has arisen with us is when an amazement list will no longer apply. What happens to the old one when Payout Denmark comes with a new one? How do we ensure that it is destroyed and that the new one begins to apply? The whole procedure is very, very difficult to follow in the proposal. Thirdly, we are a little bit like that about this unconcerned cooperation agreement between Payout Denmark and the municipalities. When the draft law provides for the Minister to be able to lay down detailed rules for the cooperation agreement with a view to ensuring, as it says, the optimum basis for binding cooperation, we really feel that we lack a little grip on it here in the Folketing. Of course, we think that the agreement is absolutely essential for this cooperation to work properly and serve the purpose of finding and correcting errors in an easy and effective way. But should we not have a political discussion about what the main content of such a cooperation agreement is? Because it actually seems to have to form a framework on until more of the things you can find legally problematic and relevant to discuss in this context, including this with what it is like to deal with the admiration lists from Payout Denmark. Then we have a fourth concern, it will probably gradually be that the bill envisages that Disbursement Denmark should cooperate with private pension and insurance companies and be entitled to special cooperation with these citizens who receive early retirement. I am aware that the intention is that beneficiaries of early retirement can be made aware of their possible rights in private insurance or pension schemes. But we are concerned about whether this opens up to abuse, either intended or not intended. That is why I would also like to ask the Minister to explain: what are the rules, guidelines and restrictions that will apply to Payout Denmark's cooperation and data exchange with pension and insurance companies? What is the situation now, and what is to be done with the proposal? Is there a change here? To what extent can Payout Denmark cooperate? And why is it that these private registers do not appear in the admiration criteria? It is absolutely crucial for us in the SF that such a legal basis exists exclusively for citizens and cannot function as control. I really do miss a good argument as to what problem this legal basis actually solves. Is it the case that the Minister has a reasonable presumption that early retirement pensioners are not aware of their rights in private companies? If that is the case, I think that the problem is better solved by the municipality and the case workers and, of course, I expect them to inform citizens of their rights, as of all other people. To sum up, the SF is, from the outset, positive about the proposal, but it is absolutely essential for us to clarify the parts we consider to be of concern, and we hope that they will be clarified and addressed in the future work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133530	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133533	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to say that I share the rapporteur's concerns. I think that these are some good and sharp points of criticism that have been found there. What I came across was the rapporteur's statement that it is basically a good idea to transfer tasks to Payout Denmark. As far as I remember, in 2010 in the then opposition, namely Social Democracy, Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten, we agreed that it was basically a bad idea to establish Payout Denmark. So what is it that has done that the SF has apparently changed its position on that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133613	I think what I said was that we basically believe that, in order to make public sector administration as easy, simple, efficient and flawless as possible, it is good to let those who are good at something do it. I think that was my wording.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133625	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133629	This means that it should not be perceived that it was a good idea to establish Payout Denmark and transfer tasks to Payout Denmark. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133641	Thank you. Now we have Payout Denmark, and on the basis one could imagine that there are things that are good in Payout Denmark. But with the proposal in question we think there are a number of, if not wonders, so concerns that it would be worth identifying before we can decide whether it is actually a good idea for the transfer of competences in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133659	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317133716	Thank you very much. A mistake is not corrected by making a new mistake of roughly the same kind, but that is what the government is doing with this bill, including those parties that support it. Payout Denmark is basically a really bad idea. That was also what we agreed with the current government parties and the SF when the VK government and the Danish People's Party voted through the law in 2010. At that time, we, the opposition parties, produced a joint report expressing our fear that Payout Denmark would mean worse service for citizens, that some groups would fall between two chairs when seeking public services and that it was doubtful whether the country's municipalities would be able to achieve the savings that were set up. These concerns had been forgotten by the government parties and SF in 2012 when, together with the bourgeois parties, they voted through the law on the establishment of Payout Denmark. In addition, Enhedslisten criticised that the creation of Payout Denmark meant a further loss of democracy. If a municipality provides poorer services or criminals against citizens' legal certainty, citizens at least have the opportunity to demonstrate in front of the City Hall or to hold the municipal council to account in the next municipal elections, but Disbursement Denmark is a private centralist organisation that has been equipped with a responsibility of authority, so it does not get much out of it in the specific case. Since the establishment of Payout Denmark nothing has happened that has given us reason to change our mind. All in all, it is just more of the same with the bill that we are getting here, more centralisation, more duplication of work for the citizens, perhaps also for the municipalities that are now going to have to deal with two different authorities, as if it were not difficult enough to get through with the municipality in advance. Unfortunately, the draft law also means that some further chunks of legal certainty are being cut off from the citizens. There are further exceptions to a very central section of the Personal Data Act, namely Section 8 (1). 3, which is about the fact that information about citizens' privacy should not be able to be disclosed to other public authorities without the consent of the citizen. It is so glaring that the Data Protection Agency points out in its hearing that this very central paragraph is really being undermined, and it is frightening, so superficial the government is responding to the Danish Data Protection Agency's urgent call to think it through again. Another example is the introduction of the concept of supposed collector and suspected household member and access to the interconnection of registers in this regard without obtaining the consent of the citizen. We fully agree with the Elders' criticism of this. We also agree with the Elders' proposal that clear definitions of what it means to live together should be introduced, and these criteria should be based on objectively verifiable conditions such as housing costs, water, heating, electricity and other fixed costs related to housing. But it is striking that the government does not want that. The reason is that such a fixed framework can be easily circumvented or have unintended effects. In other words, if there are clear rules, cheating becomes too easy. It's a confession case, so it's gonna do something. The possibility of running cases against citizens for social fraud is obviously more important than fulfilling a perfectly natural requirement in a rule of law, namely that citizens should be able to know what to do in order to comply with the rules. The Enhedslisten agrees with the Social Affairs Council that the extensive control measures in Paying Denmark are out of proportion, for the sole reason that there is no concrete analysis of the extent of social fraud in Denmark. We also agree that these controls help to stigmatise the entire group of beneficiaries of transfer income as potential criminals. It is dangerous, at a time when the right is busy portraying it as if the main goal of unemployed and sick people in life is to put the trunk in public boxes. Of course, we must combat social fraud, but it must not be at the expense of the legal certainty of our citizens. This should not be at the expense of public employees' rights, and it is disgraceful that the government does not, of course, state that the law on the transfer of undertakings for the public employees affected by the changes must, of course, apply to those situations. Enhedslisten is against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134149	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134153	I'm just a little sorry that Enhedslisten is making this as if it's a hetz against people we think are cheating. What if it's actually the other way around, that is, there are some people who just forgot to update the information and actually should have more money? What about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134216	Thank you. I just have to say that that part does not really fill anything in the description of this bill, nor in the measures that are being introduced. It is quite clear what the purpose is. And it is no coincidence that the Council of Social Affairs Ministers perceives what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134233	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134237	But does Enhedslisten not basically agree with me that we should pay the right benefits to people either too much or too little?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134249	I fully agree with that. It is up to the authorities to ensure this, and I think, in this way, the municipalities would be able to do so without the establishment of an institution such as Payout Denmark with all the negative consequences in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134303	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Thyra Frank, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134311	Thank you. The draft law intends to transfer authority responsibility for, inter alia: death grants, flexible allowances and partial pensions from municipalities to Disbursement Denmark and then to set up a central data unit that can collate registers in order to ensure correct benefits and prevent social fraud. This means public efficiency, and the Liberal Alliance is a warm supporter of this so that we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134340	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Per Løkken as Conservative rapporteur. It's gonna be quick.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134345	In the Conservative People's Party, we are very concerned about simplifying procedures in the public sector and reducing bureaucracy where possible. At the same time, we are also concerned about the legal certainty of the citizen and about the closeness of the case to the citizen. We think there is a reasonable balance in this bill. The bill is the implementation of the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2015. The first main element of the bill is to transfer authority responsibility for compliance, funeral expenses, international health insurance cases, flex benefits and partial pension from the municipalities to Disbursement Denmark, so that the administration gathers in one place. We hope that a collection of expertise can ensure a uniform and effective administration that benefits the individual citizen. For Conservatives, it is the legal certainty of the individual that is important. We therefore note that in connection with the transfer of tasks to Payout Denmark there will be a focus on experience acquisition and citizen's legal certainty. It is proposed, as the second main element of the bill, to create a data unit under the auspices of Payout Denmark to ensure a better basis and binding cooperation on the control of social benefits, including in the area of municipal benefits. This has to be done, among other things. This is done through the use of data, by linking registers in municipal services and closer cooperation between authorities, including international ones. It is intended to avoid social fraud, and we of course support that from the Conservative People's Party. Secondly, we must ensure that payments to the citizen are made on a proper basis. We support that too. Finally, the bill implies that Payout Denmark will enter into a partnership with pension and insurance companies on persons granted an early retirement pension from the public sector. And we have no problem with that either. Finally, it is gratifying that the legislative proposal brings savings, which we are also pleased with. So Conservatives can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134609	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134617	Thank you, President. I would like to thank you for all the comments that have been made at this first reading. I am also glad that it has been a really good and constructive debate. This shows that we are dealing with a legislative proposal which deals with a really important issue. The bill is part of the implementation of the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2015, which has been discussed by several people, and with the bill, the administration of compliance aid is moved to citizens resident in the country, flexibility, partial pension, funeral grant and international health insurance from the municipalities to Payout Denmark, and thus we can also make the case more efficient and free up resources that the municipalities can use for other purposes. The bill also provides for the establishment of a base unit in Disbursement Denmark, which can carry out register compilation in the fields of services of local authorities and other authorities, as well as the power to obtain information from foreign authorities at the request of the municipalities, and it allows for a better response to error payments also to cheating, which several people have also mentioned. At the same time, the draft law also contains a number of other proposals, including: to help improve cooperation between municipalities and Payout Denmark on the control of payments of benefits. As I have also been able to listen to the debate here today, there is general support for us to do what we can to avoid mistakes and cheating, but at the same time, of course, there is also a great focus on the legal certainty of citizens and that we will not have a system that can be misused, and I agree with that. In my view, this is precisely the balance that the draft law presents. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for its favourable treatment of the draft law and, of course, I look forward to the committee reading, where, as usual, I will make myself available for any questions. This also applies to the specific questions from the Danish People's Party and, as such, also from the SF. Some of them are of a technical nature, while others will be easily answered. This is, of course, also a difficult matter, but at least we are at our disposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134855	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134915	The debate is open. Mrs Tina Nedergaard as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317134940	Thank you, President. The government's motion for a resolution that we are now considering is about Denmark ratifying the third protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The adoption of the proposal means that Denmark recognises the right of the Children's Committee to deal with individual complaints from children and their deputies about breaches of the Child Convention or the other two protocols to the Convention. The Committee will, of its own motion, be able to deal further with cases of systematic violation or suspicion of systematic violation of children's rights in the countries which accede to the Protocol. The Committee cannot deal with cases where national remedies have not been exhausted, nor is there a legal process. This means, in practice, that the Committee cannot reverse a national decision, but only make proposals and recommendations to the nations that subscribe to the protocol. The Left supports the proposal. In Denmark we have a clear focus on children's rights, and regardless of the colour of the government, we are also very concerned across the Danish Parliament that we are based on the child's best interests and the child's interests. But this is far from being the case in all countries. Denmark should, of course, back up the fact that systematic violations can be dealt with and that individual cases that are contrary to the Convention can be dealt with, thereby keeping the focus constantly on children's rights in all countries, including Denmark with our ratification. The policy of the Left is perfectly clear in the area of children, namely that Denmark must comply with all the provisions in order to ensure the best possible conditions for children, and we think it is actually appropriate in these matters that the Committee can see our changing governments over its shoulders. We therefore thank the government for the proposal and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317135141	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Julie Skovsby as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317135150	Thank you. The fight for children's rights has always been a central part of the social democratic movement. In our first programme of principles, the Gimple programme from 1876 we went to battle to ban child labour or, as it was formulated just under 139 years ago: Submission of child labour as well as all work in such factories where health and morality are lost. ▪ Since then, children's conditions have been very close to our hearts. In November last year, the United Nations Children's Convention was 25 years old, and Denmark joined the Convention as early as 1991. Now we are taking another step and ratifying the optional protocol to the Children's Convention drawn up by the United Nations in 2011. This ratification must be seen in the context of the other complaint protocols that we have previously signed. First, it was the right of appeal to the UN Women's Committee, and most recently it was the right of appeal to the UN Disability Committee, which we joined last year. Both times it has been about giving Danes an extra opportunity to complain and get an assessment of their case, and that is also what we are doing now. For this proposal is an expression of the ambitious human rights policy that we want to pursue. We would like to set high standards for Denmark's commitments to human rights, and the proposal will allow for more things. Firstly, the optional protocol to the Children's Convention will allow Danes to complain to the UN Committee on Children's Rights if they believe that they have violated the rights set out in the Children's Convention. Secondly, you will also be able to complain if you believe that your rights have been violated under two other optional protocols. These are respectively about the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and about the involvement of children in armed conflicts. The UN Committee on Children's Rights will be able to take the initiative itself to carry out investigations if they are told that serious or systematic violations of the rights of the Convention are taking place. The conclusion reached by the Committee on Children's Rights is not legally binding in Denmark. Instead, these are opinions in the form of proposals and recommendations, on which it will then be up to the government here in Denmark to decide. But just as much as we would like to receive praise when we do well in relation to human rights, of course we would also like to listen if we could be better at something. That is part of pursuing an ambitious human rights policy. It is important to stress that the right of appeal to the UN Children's Committee will not replace a review before a Danish court. If you want to raise a matter on the committee, there should be no more places to go in Denmark. This means that a Danish court must have taken a position on the issue and that all appeals must have been exhausted. Only then can you move on to the Children's Committee. The proposal here will provide an additional opportunity for children to complain and get an assessment of their case. This will strengthen children's rights and conditions, which is why the Socialists can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317135552	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317135600	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the government is proposing that Denmark ratify the optional protocol of 19 December 2011 to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on an approach procedure, to join a UN committee which can receive and deal with individual complaints about children's rights. Of course, it seems quite straightforward to adopt this procedure: who can be against guaranteeing better rights for children in the world? We also do a lot in Denmark to safeguard children and children's rights. We have given children more rights in Denmark in recent years. We have focused on strengthening the legal certainty of children. Broad political agreements have been made where children have been at the heart of the Children's Reform, the Parental Responsibility Act, children's conversations etc. These are just some of the slightly larger initiatives with related legislation that we have implemented. It can only be said that there is continuous attention on children's terms. Of course, it must always be done better, and there are many areas where we are not in goal; that is also true. But I think we're on the right track. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is about the actions you carry out and the results you achieve in society, and that is more important than signing a procedure for making inquiries, a right to complain to a committee. In Denmark, as we all know, we have ratified the Children's Convention and thus also internationally committed ourselves to compliance with the Convention, and the Convention can then be invoked and applied by the courts. We have also signed the first two optional protocols on the involvement of children in armed conflicts and on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. Both protocols have been ratified with the support of the Danish People's Party, because we think the work is important. Now we have a proposal for a third optional protocol on individual redress to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. There are several challenges in that proposal. First of all, it removes sovereignty from Denmark. We give a committee of the UN a competence to receive and deal with individual complaints; it is a competence which should be maintained in the Danish legal system. Some would say, then, that the committee has no judicial authority, because it can only advise and make recommendations. This means, on the one hand, that we can then say that it does not matter what it says; we really do not have to listen. On the other hand, a Danish court will naturally take stock of what might come from recommendations, which makes it extra doubtful because the committee has power without having real power. In the context of the consultations, it is stated that the right of appeal will strengthen children's rights in Denmark. This suggests, on the one hand, that there is a problem today with children's rights in Denmark. We believe that this is something we should take very seriously and do something about in Denmark. We must not solve this by joining an international committee. On the other hand, it is an illusion that the Committee can actually safeguard the rights of children, which is not really true either, because the Committee has no authority. In the Danish People's Party we take the international agreements very seriously, also in practice and not only on paper. Unfortunately, this is not the case for some countries in the world where, despite signing the convention, they do not treat children properly. There are examples of trafficking in children, child soldiers, forced marriages, inhuman conditions for child workers, etc. etc. We regularly hear about it, and we must do everything we can to combat it. It can be said that the day when the committee actually had the authority to guarantee the rights of children in those countries, we could start talking about it. Until then, we in the Danish People's Party would rather use our powers to secure children's rights in Denmark through the Danish legal system rather than joining international committees. We must also take the fight out in the world to improve the conditions of children, but we do not believe that it is done through such a committee. That is why we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the approval of the Minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317135936	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there a brief comment? It says, "Mr. Peter Christensen here on screen, but it must be Mrs Tina Nedergaard. You could get that suspicion!).
ParlaMint-DK_20150317135957	Some years of my age were just stolen, and that is very satisfying. Thank you to the rapporteur. I think that was a good speech, and I also think that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are very much showing that there is enormous concern for the conditions of children. The fact that we do not always reach the same conclusions does not change the fact that the ambition of national and global work for the best interests and interests of children is something that is widely divided in the Folketing. However, I was actually genuinely interested and one could be involved in a rapporteur's speech when the rapporteur mentioned that, insofar as the committee had proper powers to intervene, that would be another matter. I'm a little interested in that. Does the rapporteur think that the Danish People's Party would be interested in ratifying the protocol insofar as binding legal decisions could be made in the UN system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140050	I can answer that quite simply and clearly: no, we do not want to put that competence into the world. We are just saying that one of the problems of making such a system work at all if
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140106	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140114	I may have done exactly the opposite of the Danish People's Party, because in the Radical Left we have been working for a long time to get the Children's Convention into Danish law, which is why I am so glad that with a radical minister in the lead we can now take this important step, which is to give access to the Children's Committee. This is an important step because it will be able to make a concrete difference in reality. Sometimes it sounds a little technical when it becomes such a UN language, but what we are opening up to here is that as a Dane you can complain to the Children's Committee if you think that the rights of children are being violated in Denmark, plus, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, that you can complain about what is about the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and about the involvement of children in armed conflicts. In addition, we allow the UN Committee on Children's Rights to carry out investigations of its own motion on the basis of reliable information on serious or systematic violations of the rights of the Convention. So with my radical heart, I would very much like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140234	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur comes running, and that is Mrs Trine Mach, SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140242	The SF sees the motion for a resolution to accede to the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides individual redress to the UN Children's Committee, as a clear strengthening of the rights of Danish children. Children's rights are a core focus of the SF, which is why we naturally support the proposal. I should like to say in parenthesis that we would of course have liked a radical minister to have taken the step fully and incorporated the Children's Convention into Danish law. It would have been something that we would have had our hands all over our heads. All children must have the right to complain if their rights have been violated in one way or another. It is an essential part of SF's child policy and something that we fortunately share widely in this Parliament. Unfortunately, Danish children's knowledge of and the possibility of redress has been too poor, and Denmark has previously been criticised by among others. The UN Children's Committee on Children's Rights for children to be deprived of access to redress. This is worrying and unacceptable, but it is, of course, positive that the motion for a resolution can guarantee the right of children to complain to the Committee on Children's Rights. In our view, this sends an important political signal to children that we recognise them as self-employed individuals with rights. As I said, the resolution is a step in the right direction, but it is marvellous that it is the government's only initiative as a follow-up to the Committee on Inclusion in the report on human rights. It really annoys us. In 2006 the UN Children's Committee will assess how compliance with the Children's Convention is going in Denmark, and it would be a good idea to look at how Denmark can finally fully go in and implement the Children's Convention in Danish law • very much like before the Children's Committee comes and looks at us in the maps. After all, the government itself has mentioned in its 2011 government base that priority is given to children's rights. It would have been good to have implemented the Children's Convention on the same occasion. In relation to the specific proposal, I have looked at the hearings and there are a few things that I would like the Minister to comment on. I note that not only the Institute for Human Rights, but several of the child organisations are looking at how the government will ensure the dissemination of awareness of the right of appeal for children once the resolution has been adopted. As I have said, this is being pointed out by a number of organisations, and I simply do not think that the answer that there will be any statements on the government's website and that it will be ensured that this protocol is translated into a child-friendly language is enough. Could the Minister not try to say a little more about how to actually spread it more proactively and not just formally make sure that you can look at a website? The second, which I also note, is that among other things. The Institute of Human Rights says it's about what it's called "I'm sorry" that I lost my touch. It's not very dressy, but I'll round it off instead. So I would just like to say in conclusion that I am pleased that the government has tabled the motion for a resolution. We are very pleased, together with the government and the rest of Parliament, to be able to focus on children's access to justice and strengthen children's rights de facto, and we are, of course, happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140549	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140556	As several rapporteurs have said, this proposal means that Denmark recognises the right of the UN Children's Committee to receive and deal with complaints and, in special cases, to carry out investigations itself in Denmark. It is, as the SF rapporteur just said a second ago, de facto strengthening the legal status of children. It is not even a joke, because it is on my paper. It will be a strengthening of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in our society and, above all, it will be a very, very strong signal. In the Enhedslisten, we work intently to strengthen children's individual rights and the recognition of children as self-employed, rights-bearing individuals who are individuals by virtue of themselves and not only by virtue of their association with parents and family. With this motion for a resolution, we are going a bit further in this work and we are calling on the government to immediately start a targeted work to spread knowledge of the rights of the Child Convention and of the right to appeal that we are now creating. It is a knowledge that must be spread directly to children, but certainly also to organisations of interest and the authorities that work or, to put it bluntly, should work with the Convention on Children in their daily work, because that is what we lack. We do not need the individual rights of children to be included in the general regulatory work of the administrative decisions taken on a daily basis, which have a huge impact on the future of children and on the judicial decisions that also concern children. Precisely because it is a shortcoming that the Children's Convention is not thought into the work of the authorities, it is quite incomprehensible to the Enhedslisten that the government has only tabled this one motion for a resolution. We have yet to see at least one more point on the ratification of the Children's Convention, but also the other UN conventions, for example. The Disability Convention is conspicuous by their absence. The government parties at one time had exactly the same view as the Enhedslisten, namely that these absolutely central conventions and their described rights should not only be declarations of intent which oblige Denmark as a state, but should also be rights that can be enforced directly in the courts and that citizens can point to in a case in a complaint or in a court case. That idea has been dropped by the governing parties, perhaps after the laxity of government staffs has put in place properly, and that is despite the fact that a majority of the government's own set up committee has pointed out that the opposite should be the case if we want to strengthen the rights of children as well as, for example, children. people with disabilities in our society. The Enhedslisten can, of course, support this proposal, but we simply have to say that we are so
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140933	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317140941	With the motion for a resolution, the Folketing agrees that Denmark ratifys the UN Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Denmark thus recognises the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child and, as stated in the submission, the Committee's powers are limited to making proposals and recommendations. The Committee's opinions are therefore not legally binding and the Committee is not of a court-like nature. The Government will therefore be able to decide on a case-by-case basis whether it will follow the Committee's guidance opinions. The Liberal Alliance can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317141025	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Løkken as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317141032	Children's conditions are high on the agenda of the Conservatives, and we therefore welcome the motion for a resolution that the Danish Parliament consents to Denmark ratifying the United Nations Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was adopted at the General Assembly on 19 December 2011. Denmark must comply with all conditions when it comes to children's conditions. Conservative policy is clear there. We are in favour of children's conditions and conditions being dealt with at national level and preferably not being the subject of complaints from outside. However, we agree that the UN Committee can carry out an investigation when special circumstances arise. It can be instructive that people from outside tell us if there are conditions in Danish society that can be improved when it comes to children's conditions. We also think it is important that Denmark does not go through ratification alone, but is in a couple of races with other states. We have been informed that 14 States have acceded to the agreement, among others. Germany and must therefore say that we are not alone in ratifying it. We are satisfied with that. Conservatives can therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317141151	I would also like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317141200	Thank you, President. I just want to thank you very much for your positive reception. Both the government and I are, of course, very pleased that human rights and, above all, children's rights are of great concern to us. And I personally think it is absolutely crucial that children too should be allowed to complain to the UN if they believe that their rights are not respected in Denmark. The debate is now continuing in the Committee on Social Affairs. I look forward, of course, as I did with the previous proposal, to the further dialogue, and I will do my best to answer any questions that may now be. There were questions again from the SF, and we will of course also answer them as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317141253	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 14.30, since we have agreed with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior that the examination of his proposal will start at the earliest at that time. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 14.30.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143224	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open, and the first speaker is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143250	Thank you. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal to improve the protection of the address of certain threatened and vulnerable citizens in the CPR register. The bill is therefore an amendment to the Central Personal Data Register Act, namely the CPR Act, which means that persons exposed to threats to their person in connection with honour-related or co-life-related conflicts may have a special form of address protection. There is no doubt that the draft law provides for the establishment of a specific type of address protection which, as mentioned above, goes beyond such general access to registration of name and address protection. Citizens exposed to serious threats related to honour or cohabitation-related conflicts have the possibility of having special address protection. This then requires that the threatened and vulnerable citizens have a residence or permanent residence and, in addition, it requires a police professional assessment that admits that the citizen needs special address protection. So all in all, this is actually something we in the Left are really, really positive about. We only think it is very good, not least in the light of the situations we have unfortunately experienced and not just in the press where there are people who have come into such a conflict of honour and where there are suspicions that there may be such a definite information network in different places that can simply bid in with address or other information that can enable some of these people to get hold of the person and perhaps threaten or indirectly or directly pressure the person to come back to the family or something else. All in all, this is a situation which is certainly not desirable. This, of course, also raises the question of what kind of a CPR system we have and what kind of a CPR system we need. Is that safe enough? After all, we have had that discussion several times with both the current minister and also with the former minister in this area, and on the Left side we have always made it very, very clear that we want to look at whether a system that was really good some years ago is still good in 2015, in the digital age that we are living in today. We have seen other cases where too much information has also been obtained through the CPR register. All in all, however, we are very positive about the draft law. We want a number of different issues in committee, but so far we are at least largely positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143530	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143533	It's just such a factual question. We agree that the bill should be adopted, but I would like to know whether the Left has discovered during the reading of the bill why it is necessary to provide people with special address protection when they already have address protection. Why does the existing address protection not work? What's happening in the system there? I don't think I've been able to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143559	I note that there was an article in Information on 10 March this year, that is to say a few days ago, which referred to the fact that, unfortunately, at least after they have found out, there is a so-called network of people who they suspect can obtain this information, even after they have some form of protection. Where Information comes from, of course, I'm not going to be a judge. I am just saying that if there is any suspicion that the current security system is not good enough at all, I am absolutely willing to go further. However, I agree with what I almost hear the Liberal Alliance rapporteur say, namely that if there is insecurity about the current system, it is totally scandalous, and we must of course have looked at that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143644	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143648	Let me put this as a question. Could the rapporteur perhaps confirm that this bill comes after years of desire, in fact, from among others. women's crisis centres, which have seen young people being protected from their families being actually found by families again, for example. because the father or mother can call the doctor and thus obtain address information, even though the young people are protected in the CPR register? So these are some specific reasons in which the system is not being abused as such, but is just not strong enough that has given rise to the government's having started this work and has now come up with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143742	I can confirm that, unfortunately, there have been some specific cases that I have also read about myself, and that I have also noticed when the government started talking about this and when the bill will be available. It's been a while, let's put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143754	Mrs. Pernille Skipper. No, there are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143806	This bill is a follow-up to the government's strategy against honor-related conflicts, which was made in 2012. The aim of this strategy is to ensure that all citizens in Denmark can enjoy the same basic rights. This applies to the right to choose your spouse, the right to equality between women and men and the right to choose the life you want to live for yourself. Unfortunately, we find that there are some young people who are subjected to social control and are subject to the family's requirement to live by a certain code of honour. In the worst case scenario, this means that some children and young people are subjected to oppression or coercion and, in some cases, to violence and other abuse on the part of the family. We will not accept that and therefore the fight against honour-related conflicts is important. This bill then follows up on the part of the strategy that is about support for young people. Specifically, the bill means that citizens who, according to the police's assessment, have a special need for address protection can be registered without permanent residence in the cpr register. This means that the actual residence or permanent residence of the citizen is not indicated in the CPR. In this way, the citizen will be protected from improper disclosure of information about the address of the CPR. So the fight against honour-related conflicts is at the heart of the Social Democrats and the government. We will not accept that citizens in Denmark are subjected to improper social control, coercion, threats and violence. With this bill, we will have better protection for the young people concerned, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143949	A brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317143952	We have a system that provides people with address protection, but it does not work, so we must have a system alongside which provides special address protection. Are we going to scrap the first system, recognizing that it doesn't work? In other words, if you want address protection, we say with this bill that general address protection is not good enough, but that you need special address protection. So I guess we can skip the regular address protection, huh?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144024	As I also mention in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is important to bear in mind that, in relation to this particular address protection, it is therefore, according to a police professional judgement. One might say that today there is an address protection and then comes the special one where the police can assess that there may be need. And it is simply that the address is not present at all in the CPR register, and in this way it cannot be extradited improperly. So I think it is a good addition to the CPR legislation that we have been given the new opportunity, and I am quite confident that it is the police who are assessing when it will come into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144057	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144058	It's not that we're going to vote against this bill. We think it is good to improve address protection when it does not work. What just puzzles me is that it is still called address protection, although it does not seem to work. A special type of address protection is then created which actually works. The minister is shaking his head, and it is possible that I am the one who cannot find out how to read a bill. However, it seems to me that two address protections should run alongside each other. One doesn't work but the other works.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144132	I am sure that we will have a fine committee reading of it. But basically, I think it can be said that some of those who are under address protection may experience greater pressure to obtain the address or that there is a greater risk that the address will be extradited improperly. At any rate, this risk is minimised by the legislative proposal we are debating today, thereby increasing the safety of citizens under address protection. I think that is fine, and that is why I am quite confident about the proposal and particularly confident that it is the police who must assess when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144206	Mr President, there is indeed a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144209	Thank you. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, the Left is absolutely in favour of the draft law as it stands as soon as we get some good answers to the committee questions we are going to ask. But what I would like to ask is how you see this in the context of the whole CPR system, which I also mentioned in my speech. Today we have a cpr system that has really, very many years on the back. Couldn't it be that you might have to think completely new? After all, we have heard the former Minister of the Interior talk about perhaps thinking in completely new ways. Perhaps one should think of a concept such as privacy by design or other form of anonymisation of the data currently contained in the CPR system. What do the Socialists think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144252	First of all, I am pleased that there is support for the legislative proposal, and I believe that we must first stick to what the legislative proposal is about, namely to try to optimise the way in which the CPR system is organised. Today we can see that there are some inappropriate things when an address can be provided, where we will actually go in and create the possibility that an address can simply be deleted from the cpr register. Then it cannot be unduly extradited and so we optimise the security of the CPR system. I have not thought about how a CPR system can be replaced by something else, nor do I really want to throw up all the balls that the Left is currently doing. I think the important thing is that the people who are experiencing problems can see that we take their problems seriously and do what we can to optimise the security of their address protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144340	Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144342	I wasn't really going to follow up, but then when I'm told that the Left is throwing all the balls up in the air, isn't that what would be smartest, so that we started doing it in some smart way instead of trying to take the problems a little by turn, so we're going to be done with the government's schedule of this bill in 10-15 years? Well, that's where the problem lies. Today we have a security issue which should be taken a little more seriously than I hear the Socialist rapporteur. That is why I would just like to appeal to that is the only thing that can be done as an opposition • that we also address many of the other aspects that are not safe in the whole CPR system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144421	I think it's good to make such an appeal. I just want to say as quietly that I think it is wiser to take the problems and solve them as we do now with this bill. I don't think it's time to experiment with our social design, including the CPR system, right now. And that's what I mean when I say that the Left throws all the balls into the air. I think it is better for us to solve the problem, and I think the bill actually does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144448	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144500	Thank you. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we regard the bill as an improvement on the existing system and, of course, an acknowledgement that the system we have today is not good enough. Among other things, it has. It is a wish from women's crisis centres that there should be better protection for some of the people who are exposed to what we call honor-related conflicts and crimes, even though it has little to do with honour when it comes to the matter. But that is the name we have. There have also been proposals in the Folketing in the past for advice and action plans for young people in local government who have been subjected to honour-related crimes, and this is, after all, a good continuation of it. We have also said on several occasions on the part of the Danish People's Party that we want better opportunities to actually get a completely new CPR number, and we would very much like to encourage the government to continue working on this. Then we also think it might be appropriate to give the system an extra service, because when you make this proposal, it is of course because some people have used the existing system to improperly pull out information that has been passed on to family members and to others in the community who should not know where a person is staying. And I think that, in fact, is a very, very big problem. However, we support the bill and call on the Minister also to look at how we can generally make the system more waterproof.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144622	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr Seligman. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144632	Thank you. With this bill, we are helping to protect people who are exposed to honour-related conflicts or other forms of persecution as a result of fellowship-related conflicts, for example. violence, threats and serious harassment. This amendment is necessary in order to protect particularly vulnerable women. The bill provides for the possibility of keeping the address of an offender secret by simply not appearing in the cpr register, and it will then only be the municipality of residence of the person concerned which, according to the rules of the Personal Data Act, can obtain knowledge and, where appropriate, disclose information about the address of the place of residence. It will continue to be the police who are responsible for personal protection, with the tools they already have today and can use against threatened citizens, for example. extradition of assault alarms, restraining orders, etc.; It is therefore also the police who will in future have to assess the need to remove the address in the CPR register. And according to the bill, the National Police are required to draw up the specific guidelines for the administration of this scheme. Against this background, the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144740	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144747	SF sees this bill as a strong improvement in the protection of some of the most vulnerable citizens in our society, citizens whose lives are exposed and whose lives may be at risk. These are people who are on the run in their own country, and citizens who must flee people they have previously trusted, perhaps lived with, perhaps loved. Here there is a special need and a duty on our part to help and protect. This was also why a national strategy was drawn up against honour-related conflicts in 2012 and why Parliament, in overwhelming agreement in 2013, obliged municipalities to offer citizens who are exposed to honor-related conflicts or are at risk of being so, a plan of action. It is quite obvious that we must help those people who are threatened by this kind of conflict, which, as the draft law says, is often very complicated and has many nuances. That is also why it is crucial that all the necessary competences are involved when there are threat assessments to be carried out in this type of conflict. In the SF, a little in line with some of the consultations, we are uncertain that a purely police assessment alone is sufficient. It appears from the consultation note that, when drawing up guidelines for police circles on threat assessments, the National Police will involve relevant organisations. We think that is a little loosely worded, and that is why we will probably ask the Minister to assess and explain whether the National Police have the necessary powers to draw up guidelines for police circles and whether the police circles have the necessary powers to carry out the necessary and correct threat assessments. However, the SF supports the proposal in its entirety and we look forward to further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144930	Thank you. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317144937	A new doctoral thesis from December last year points out that there is often an automatic reaction when ethnic or religious minorities in close relationships expose each other to violence. This is very quickly seen as a cultural problem, whereas violence in close relations with an ethnic Danish family is often justified by the psychological problems of the perpetrators, abuse, social problems and the like. So with the doctoral dissertation in mind one can conclude that one should be careful with automatic reactions, also in a debate about honor-related conflicts. At the same time, of course, there are also problems with violence, mental terror, threats, very strict social control in some families that are based on certain cultural backgrounds, and we must take this seriously without cutting everyone apart. In 2012, the government launched its strategy for honor-related conflicts, which several have mentioned here from the platform, and it was a strategy that took several really important steps. For example: A hotline, called Ethnic Youth, has been created to which a large increase in the number of inquiries has occurred since it started. It has gone up steadily, and it is likely to be seen as something quite positive, because it is not a sign that the problems have got bigger, but it is a sign that more people are addressing and accepting an outstretched hand. In addition, as the SF rapporteur said, we have all voted in here to ensure that citizens exposed to honor-related conflicts can receive free anonymous advice if they turn to them and that they are also offered a plan of action for their future. But more can be done. In recent times we have been able to read about examples of young people falling through the safety net they have been trying to create. They are rejected, for example. in crisis centres due to lack of space, and there have also been cases where young people have been able to be traced by the family from which they have fled because they have not been able to change their identity properly and because, as I said, it has been possible to circumvent the address protection of the CPR system. This is where this bill comes in. The draft law makes it if not completely certain, so at least more certain that a family or a social environment cannot use the CPR system to track down a person who does not want to be found. This means that citizens who have entered this vulnerable position can then be registered as completely without residence, even if that is not the case, and so it is a police professional assessment whether that is the case. Of course, this also involves some drawbacks, such as that the doctor cannot send a letter and the authorities will find it difficult to contact you. So it is not something that should be extended to everyone. However, in the Enhedslisten we agree with those organisations which do not criticise the draft law on its basis but criticise it for perhaps including a slightly too narrow group. We are concerned about this, and we think that the government should perhaps have listened to it and expanded the possibilities a little, among other things. so that anyone other than the police can get in on the decision as to whether it is necessary. Having said that, there is no doubt that this is a very positive step that has been taken for a group of young people and women in particular who need it. Although fortunately it is a small group, it is a very important group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145344	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145346	I think that was a rather unfortunate introduction to the speech by Mrs Pernille Skipper, because Mrs Pernille Skipper is trying to say that whether it is ethnic Danes or people of other ethnic backgrounds who commit a crime against family members, the reason is probably the same, but that we just call it something else. When it is Danes, it is called psychological problems; when it is people with a different ethnic background, it is called cultural problems. Can Mrs Pernille Skipper tell us how many cases we have had in recent years with brothers who have killed their sisters or how many fathers who have killed their daughters because their daughters or sisters had a boyfriend whom the family did not like and who was of Danish descent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145438	Fortunately, that is a very, very small number at all. I'm feeling a little bit that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen wants to start some kind of discussion that I actually find very inappropriate. I have in no way tried to say that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is already getting up, so I feel he is not going to hear the rest of what I am going to say at all, but is ready with his next argument, and then I was confirmed in the assumption that there is no problem among some families with certain cultural and ethnic backgrounds. What I was talking about in my introduction was generally violence in close relationships, and I referred in this way to a doctoral thesis which points out that violence in close relationships tends to explain it differently depending on ethnicity and cultural background, and that this is not necessarily the right way to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145540	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145542	If this is an inappropriate discussion, which I do not see it is, then perhaps Mrs Pernille Skipper should not have raised this discussion at the beginning of her speech, because that is when Mrs Pernille Skipper began to say that it is the same thing we see in ethnic Danish and ethnically foreign families, but that we just call it something different. Whether Mrs Pernille Skipper referred to a doctoral thesis, that was Mrs Pernille Skipper's argument. It is just that I am saying that this is not actually the same thing we have here at stake, because some of these crimes are particularly committed by ethnically foreign families living in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145621	There I simply have to correct Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. It is simply not true that violence in close relationships is a particular ethnic problem. There is violence in close relationships also in ethnic Danish families, and there have been for many years. We even allow ourselves with our own Danish culture sometimes to define it as housepieces when men beat their wives. And that is something that belongs within the home's own four walls. So we have decided our own, very, very Danish cultural problems to deal with when it comes to violence in close relationships. And what I was talking about was violence in close relationships. It is not a particular ethnic problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145706	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And so is the same, sir. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317145717	Then I can answer Mrs. Pernille Skipper. There are certain types of violence in the close relationships, which are particularly linked to families with backgrounds in countries outside Denmark who live here in Denmark, for example. the kind of violence linked to a brother's violence or even murdering or threatening his sister's life because the sister has allowed herself to have a boyfriend. So this is ethnically linked to people with a foreign background who are in Denmark. Well, there's no reason to hide that that's what this is about. Then for the bill itself. Fortunately, most children want to be found by their parents and their families. We are confident that the family knows where we are, but there are some families where it is different; there are some families where it is not. Therefore, it is very important to adopt this bill so that they can also have that security. What we just don't quite understand is that when we already have an address protection, what happens when the address gets out anyway? This suggests that in the existing system there is something wrong that the government should do something about. This suggests that in these families, which we fear, there are some who have contacts into the system and that then there are some officials in the system who should be trusted to be able to find a way of respecting address protection but who do not respect it. Therefore, this new bill is necessary to prevent them from even seeing the address, otherwise we may risk passing on the address to the family, who are seeking their family members for life or will commit violence against their family members. It is a little strange that the government is jumping over it very easily and saying: Well, then there are officials who hand over the address, even if there is address protection; we are just setting up a system next to where it is not possible, because these officials cannot see the address at all. What will the government do about the first problem, i.e. that the existing address protection does not work as intended because there are officials who put their relationship with certain people who want the address higher than their duty in the job not to give the address? I think that is a problem. But we are voting in favour of this bill because it is necessary to protect some people in Denmark from being persecuted to a particular extent by their own family.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317150008	Thank you. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317150028	I shall take the floor here in agreement with our usual rapporteur on this matter, Mr President. Mike Legarth, since he's been prevented from attending this time. I must start by saying that the Conservative People's Party sees this bill as a good step on the way to better protection for those threatened in these contexts, and that is why we will also be able to support the proposal. It is, of course, a proposal that has a slightly longer history, as several rapporteurs have said, and that is why, of course, there is also reason to consider whether this is sufficient, because the proposal is of course an expression of the fact that a system which would actually protect those concerned is not sufficiently good, since they are nevertheless experiencing their otherwise protected address getting out in one way or another. However, as I said, this is a positive step on the way, and then we must constantly assess whether it is sufficient. But there's probably some reason to think about it and see if you can get deeper into the explanation of the cause, as to why these addresses are getting out and where it's leaking in the system as it is today. I also think that there is reason for us, in the committee's work, to be a little closer to the target group of the proposal. It is, of course, as is stated in the provision, people who are exposed to threats to their individual in connection with honour-related or cohabitation-related conflicts that are the target group, but there could well be other people who are exposed to equally great threats in other contexts alone. The question then is: why should a person, because of a family relationship or another relationship with a particular person who is exposed to a threat, be covered by this protection, while others who may be exposed to equally serious threats are not included in the target group. The Crime Prevention Council, I can see, in their response to the hearing, draws attention at least to the fact that perhaps a little more attention should be paid to the level of threat and a little less to the relations between the persons involved. In any case, I think that this is something that should be taken into account in the work of the committee. In addition, we must assess on an ongoing basis whether we are sufficiently marked in our reactions to those who are threatening others, because the fundamental problem is that some people are going to threaten anyone in the context of co-life-related conflicts at all, and perhaps we should do so even harder. But that is another piece of legislation and another minister, so we are not going to go into that here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317150318	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur and all the other rapporteurs. Then the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior will have the opportunity to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317150331	I would like to start by thanking you for the very broad support that has been given to the draft law. As I have said, this is one of 33 concrete initiatives in the government's national strategy against honour-related conflicts aimed at combating honour-related conflicts, forced marriages, social control, etc. As has also emerged from the debate, the core of the proposal is that the actual address is not at all stated in the CPR register and therefore will not be delivered from the CPR to the many IT systems that are consuming data from the CPR register. It is a clear improvement on today, and it involves a real limitation on how many people can actually get to know the address. But then I also think it may be important at this point in the debate to put a stake through a myth that has now been carried on, particularly by Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen. This does not mean that the current system does not work. We do not have specific examples. I am certainly not aware of specific examples of problems for people in honour-related conflicts in this way, but we know that it is a strong desire that can contribute to security that this model has been created for the particular cases. But it is not the case that we can say that address protection does not work. We have therefore chosen it here because it has been raised as a wish, because it has been something that could contribute to security and because we do not want to wait for the situation to arise. It is just to say that there is no reason to entertain the fundamental distrust of address protection in the current system, but there is, of course, always reason to consider whether to do better, especially for those who are most at risk, also in view of their experienced security, as it will be when they know that their address does not exist in the CPR register. Then some people ask if the target group is too narrow. We are happy to discuss this during the committee procedure, but it is a discussion which has arisen on the basis of, among other things. I believe that this is a strong wish of women's crisis centres, among other things. is about security and feeling sure that you are now actually living without anyone knowing your address, and that is why we have chosen to do it that way. Of course, we also answer questions about police competence in this respect, but I believe and hope that we agree that in this country it is ultimately the task of the police to assess who is exposed and who is not, as long as there are different tools to be used. So on the question which was also raised about how citizens' addresses should be handled: here I just want to emphasise that there are already rules for that today and that there is logging in the system. It is information that is subject to different rules in the personal data law and the administrative law. As I have said, personal protection is the responsibility of the police, and that is why, if you are persecuted and at risk of being found, you must approach the police. Then they have a number of tools in addition to what might be here to provide personal protection. However, we are going with the bill a new way of trying to provide help and security for vulnerable citizens. That is why I have decided, and perhaps it can also be an answer to the many people who have ideas about what else could be done, that after 1 year we will make a statement on how it has worked in practice. In this context, we can also assess whether we think that the proposal and the legislation are of the right kind. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee might wish to clarify when we get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317150714	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317150733	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317150754	This bill deals with the reduction of ferry tariffs for the carriage of goods to and from islands. The proposal forms part of the implementation of the growth agreement, of which the Left is a part. For this reason, but also because it is a good proposal in substance, the Left can support the bill. For the Left, it is very important that there is greater equality between our islands and the rest of Denmark. There are no other communities in Denmark which, like the islands, have a customs wall around them. Here we are talking about 26 small islands and five islands, none of which are bridge-proof. Mandø has Ebbevej, and therefore Mandø is not covered by the bill. The five islands are Bornholm, Ærø, Samsø, Fanø and Læsø. The draft law will clearly create increased growth on the islands, namely by allowing producers in the islands to ship their production to 80%. less expenditure than is the case today. Products intended for the islands such as: seeds, fertilizers, groceries, etc., are given the same conditions. Everyone can tell themselves that it is of great importance for securing the islands as a living whole-year society. Thus, when the islands become more competitive on goods, it will also have a spill-over, positive impact on settlement and tourism. Denmark is an island kingdom, and it is therefore quite right that we should create equality in all areas between all parts of the realm. We must not let the islands sail their own lake. The islands help to give Denmark character and identity, and it must be preserved and developed. Those who try to sustain the life of the islands by operating, creating social and cultural activities or by settling on the islands should not be penalised by high ferry charges on their goods and goods. I hope that we will also be able to look later at the reduction of tariffs for all other transport, on which a report has been presented a few days ago and which will then be dealt with politically. As I said, the Left can warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151006	Thank you. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151013	Thank you, President. In the Social Democratic Party we work for a coherent Denmark with growth and opportunities in all parts of the country, and we know this requires investment. That is why I am very pleased with this bill, which I consider an important step on the way to better conditions for Denmark's islanders. When I have visited the islands of Denmark together with the good colleagues on the Rural Committee, people have been very good at explaining their issues and the barriers they encounter in everyday life. From their narratives it is clear that ferry connections to the mainland, which are both easily accessible and possible to pay, are essential to the well-being of islanders and the potential of islands for growth. It is both a possible and clear concrete task that Denmark's elected representatives must take on, and we are doing so here today. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is part of the growth package agreed in June last year, and with the legislative proposal we ensure that freight to and from non-bridged islands is made cheaper. Specifically, we will grant subsidies to islands and municipalities with smaller islands, which will then be used to lower freight fares. Today it is expensive to transport goods by ferry to both the small and the large islands. This means that it is difficult to operate grocery shopping, that agricultural products are more expensive to produce, and that the companies supplying goods to the mainland and to export out of Denmark are subject to an additional cost which makes it difficult for them to compete and thus maintain jobs on the islands. By adopting L 159 we thus give the islanders a better chance of living in conditions similar to those of the rest of Denmark's population, and this ensures an improvement in the conditions for business and production in our islands. It is not, however, a matter of granting the subsidy without any demand, because it is a lot of money, more or less 50 million. kr. this year and 125 million. kr. from next year onwards. Therefore, it will also be possible for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to lay down rules to ensure that the money provided in grants is actually used to reduce freight rates. This ensures that the money is spent according to purpose, and that is very sensible. Having said that, I would like to make it clear that it must be a simple and easy system to administer. We should not create more strain for municipalities with small islands or islands than is most necessary. With a reduction in ferry ticket prices for freight transport of up to 80%. Denmark's smaller islands have more reasonable conditions, and that is to the benefit of all Danes. The better conditions can pave the way for growth in the small islands and islands, and that is a necessity if we want to maintain a coherent Denmark. That is what the Socialists want, and that is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151309	Thank you. And then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151317	Thank you. It is always nice when what we in the Danish People's Party are fighting for is finally being implemented. This was, after all, our demand for the growth package, that we would have a reduction in relation to freight transport to and from the islands. And it is really nice to see that it is now becoming a reality. After all, we are in a situation where our islands are severely challenged. It's great to live on the islands, it's lovely communities that we have to support are thriving full-year communities, but they are thus challenged in relation to among others. The economic sector, and that is the part we are giving a boost today. However, in order to be sure that this will also be implemented according to the good intentions we have, I think it is important that we do so in such a way that it is not possible for the municipalities to interpret the legislation we are sending out today. It is the case that some time ago the government, along with Enhedslisten, adopted this with the §20 grant. And it says here that in June 2014 the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior conducted a survey in the municipalities receiving § 20 grants on what the additional funds were to be used for in 2014. The survey showed that the additional funds at that time were only limited in scope in terms of initiatives in relation to the intention to develop ferry services. In other words, it was certainly not all the money that was allocated to the small islands that also ended up in the small islands. That is the mistake we should not make again, which is why I think it is incredibly important that we should see in paragraph 1. 6 replaces the word, not with the word, but with the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior lays down rules on it. Because it is very important that it is not at all comprehensible to the municipalities. I think it is fine that they should make a statement on this, but I think it is important that we make it clear to the municipalities that this is something they should do. So, with that in mind, we would like to welcome the proposal. We think it is great and we are very pleased with the government's support for the Danish People's Party's proposal. But let us now ensure that it is done properly from the start. The worst possible scenario is that in 11⁄2 or 2 years' time we will find ourselves in a situation where the small islands will come and say to us: now our municipalities are spending the money on everything else. It is incredibly important that we do not end up in that situation, so let us do it properly from the start. With this, of course, we can support the proposal in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151602	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I know that the radical rapporteur is on the way, and I now give the floor to Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151622	Excuse me, President, but this is the wrong speech that I've got printed out, so I'm standing like this and I'm kind of screwed up. But I'll get started. L 159 is the draft law amending the law on municipal compensation and general subsidies for islands and on the reduction of ferry tariffs for the carriage of goods to and from islands. The draft law, which translates the initiative in the 2014 agreement on a growth package on lower ferry tariffs for freight transport to and from islands for non-state routes, welcomes the Radical Left. The draft law provides for a subsidy for the reduction of ferry tariffs up to a maximum of 80%. of the ferry tariffs per year; 1 January 2015 and it is exclusive excise duty levied by the ports. The grant is granted to municipalities with non-bridged islands and islands. A total of 20 million has been set aside. kr. in 2015 and 35 million; kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the Small vans less than 3,500 kg, currently registered as passenger cars, will be covered by the scheme, assuming that a large part of the transport to and from the islands is carried out in the smaller vans. With this proposal, we are giving a boost to the cramped outermost regions, and this must ensure both continued settlement, business development and the development of our islands in general, especially in the tourism sector. The Radical Left fully supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151747	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the SF's rapporteur who is on his way to the platform in great haste. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151758	Thank you. This bill, as several other rapporteurs have said, is part of a broad political agreement which states that a framework of 50 million will be provided. kr. in 2015 and 125 million; kr. annual from 2016 until a permanent reduction in ferry charges for commercial transport to and from the islands in order to support the economic development of island communities. It is a goal that lies in a beautiful extension of SF's policy for the Danish outermost regions. At the same time, there is the strength of the draft law that, contrary to what applies to general block grants, the Minister has greater assurance that the subsidies are targeted to cheapen transport to and from the small islands. The Minister is entitled to make the grant to the municipalities subject to the condition that the special grant which is already granted under § 20 (2) is already granted. 1 of the Law on municipal equalisation for municipalities with small islands has been applied in accordance with the intentions behind the increase, i.e. to cover the special costs incurred by the municipality in connection with ferry services to the islands. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151902	Thank you. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317151912	This is a very good legislative proposal, which comes from the growth package's partial agreement No. 108, a partial agreement to which Enhedslisten, despite not participating in the overall package, is very happy to be able to contribute. The proposal can easily be seen as a first step in achieving road equality in ferry transport to and from our small and large islands, which we have been talking about quite a long time about. And we have also seen that now the analysis we have called for or ordered is finally coming. Thus, the proposal is also in line with the agreement entered into by Enhedslisten with the government at the time the Social Democratic Party, Radicals and SF were in force from 2014 which increased the general grant to the small islands of the Association of Danish Small Islands by 15 million. kr., of which 2 million. kr. for the establishment of a ferry secretariat, which was later established on Ærø. In fact, we are pleased that in the draft law we are actually delighted that the subsidy for the reduction of ferry charges for the carriage of goods can be made conditional on the local authorities with the small islands being able to account for the use of the amount from the previous agreement, i.e. the 13 million. kr. In addition to the establishment of the ferry secretariat, the intention was to make passenger transport in the tourist resort free of charge as well as freight transport, and an island like Endelave carried out a fantastic attempt in September with free transport, which was an overwhelming success. We simply think, like Mrs Hjermind Dencker, that the authority of the Minister to make the subsidy for the reduction of freight charges conditional on the 13 million. kr. is used as intended, must be changed to a shell. It should be a must that it is so. In fact, it has been found that the municipalities with small islands, with a few exceptions, have not spent the money as intended, and it was so much more generally, it can be said that it helps to ensure the development of and on our small islands. This concerns the whole issue of block grants versus targeted state subsidies, and when some municipalities write in their consultation answer that it is a somewhat bureaucratic scheme that is being set up, with the reporting and explanation of the use of the money, and I shall give you, it is probably a bit of the same: it was much easier if we got the money out in the municipalities, then we will decide for ourselves how the money is to be spent. No, we would do well to take into account the experience, and the draft law will ensure, especially if we change the way the money is actually spent on what it is proposed to do. When the Municipality of Bornholm states in their hearing that a control mechanism must be ensured so that the reductions in freight charges benefit freight customers, that is quite right, and that is quite a bit of the same. The point of this initiative is not, of course, that we should fill the pockets of the ferry companies or the hauliers who carry the goods over, nor a slumped municipal crate here and there. It must benefit freighters and freight forwarders, ultimately consumers, residents and tourists on the islands. The local islanders are therefore also given a task of monitoring whether prices actually fall into the hands of the merchant. Allow me also to say that the Fanoe hearing gives cause for concern and a lot of indignation, therefore just a few comments on it. In fact, the municipality envisages difficulties in meeting the bill's requirement for the municipal council to draw up a statement on how the grant has been used. And why is that? Yes, it is because the municipality of Fanø, as they write, has repeatedly tried to access accounting material from the provider, the company Færgen, in order to gain insight into precisely the pricing, but Færgen has not wanted to accommodate this. In my view, it is simply not acceptable for a shipping company which is even owned by 50%. the State, through the Ministry of Transport, and which stands to benefit from a future State subsidy, will not contribute positively to the establishment of this system to reduce freight charges. I also think it can be said that Færgen is continuing his unfortunate behaviour, since the working group, which on Friday carried out an analysis of road equality, failed to pull some figures out of the shipping company. I simply do not understand why the Ministry of Transport, as the co-owner of Færgen, will contribute to such a performance. Here we are with a shipping company which can look forward to increasing turnover through state subsidies, but which does not play a part in the development of ferry operations and does not play a part in the parliamentary agenda. I have been out with a press release and simply called the sabotage of Parliament's work to ensure cheap ferry services to the islands. One easily gets the impression that the ferry simply does not want to be looked over the shoulder, because it is an extremely profitable business to run the Fanoe crossing, and we who live in Esbjerg and the surrounding area know that it must be even very nice weather before we go as one-day tourists or weekend tours to Fanoe. Then it is cheaper to take the car or bike to Blåvand or Vejers. But apart from this last one, as I said, Enhedslisten is happy with the proposal and is voting in favour of it. In the committee's work, we want to make a problem of why port charges and freight handling in ports cannot be included in the proposal as proposed by the Municipality of Bornholm, but full support from the Enhedslisten for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317152438	Thank you. And then it's the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317152447	Thank you. Yes, that suggests that the Minister can note full enthusiasm for a proposal that is clear to most people. Now it is a subsidy proposal, and that is one of the things we pay tribute and praise, that is, when we can grant subsidies, and the Liberal Alliance should not disappoint the Folketing by saying that we cannot contribute to this, because there are enough difficulties on these small islands. But basically, in the same breath, I believe that we have to note that, in a number of other contexts, we are laying our feet on the same business environment. This is what we do with our tax policy, our tax policy, the bad framework conditions, the planning law, the coastal protection law and many other things that make it difficult to be business. So it is really good to do something about the difficulties of the policy that has been conducted and it has been conducted for a very long time now and say that we are going to relax it a little, because then we are going to grant some subsidies. Then you have a great deal of work going on in the Land of Denmark in general and in turnover, administration and bureaucracy, instead of people being able to earn more of their own money and be more self-sufficient. So it is a question of what policy is being pursued. But this is an attempt to help areas that are experiencing difficulties. We can also contribute to a greater degree of equality in relation to other modes of transport in this context. So when everyone swings up to say that we now have to make sure that the money goes to it too, that's nice. And if you can find examples that things have not gone so well, there is always evidence to suggest that there should be more rules and more control and more certainty that the money will land where it is going. I think that this is something that we should sometimes put aside in this House against local self-government: respect for the city councils that sit out there and that are elected by the citizens who are also on the islands. Those citizens must then learn to take this into the debate when they choose city councils and clarify how to deal with these areas, so that it is not like a parliamentary matter to overrule some city councils and patch up misdecisions or improper spending of money etc. That is a bad thing, because that exercise never really stops if you can find examples that it is not being done. So I really think that the speaking chair of the Folketing should sound to these municipalities that they have to live up to their responsibilities, but also to the citizens, that they should kick off their council members' answers to what can be expected when they run. Because we must remember that when we approach a choice, including a choice of city council, there is a possibility that we will also be listening to what is being said. That should then be taken advantage of. That is why I would just like to say that it is not in the cards for the Liberal Alliance to help make more legholds for municipal self-government. In fact, we think that what we are introducing here is enough, namely that a statement should be made to the Minister and so on. This gives rise to increased administration in the same breath, and it is really a pity that this is necessary, because it should really be a matter of honour for a city council to pursue the signals that have been sent from here. So with those words, I would say that although we are not part of the growth agreement, we are not, because there is so much else that is not so good in the growth agreement, there are corners that fall out in a way that we can support. And this today is one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317152825	This triggered a number of brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317152829	I don't understand those bullshit because it was bullshit. First of all, there's this whole thing about it being a grant. What if the Folketing had decided to build a bridge to the islands, which is much more expensive in plant, in depreciation, in return, in maintenance etc. Because that could also give traffic equality. What would have been the view of the Liberal Alliance? I just don't understand. That's one thing. The second is that in the case of the islands, for the most part, at least in the case of the small islands, it is a very tiny minority in the large municipality, and it is easier to trick a tiny minority, because they cannot just argue themselves out, even though there are many islands that do so. However, they cannot win a hearing for their views. And here the Folketing says: Those who are the small ones in society, we want to safeguard, that is, the very small islands. But apparently the Liberal Alliance will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317152934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317152935	Thank you. Well, that's an interesting point of view, I'd say to Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, namely that the Folketing should be better at safeguarding the interests of the citizens on the islands than the city councils they choose directly and are part of. That's something new to me. It is particularly new that it comes from Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, who has experience from work in town councils etc., that the Danish Parliament should be better at rolling in and saying that these city councils are probably not so good at defending the interests of their own citizens, and that we are better at doing this from Christiansborg's side. Did Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen and maybe Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen. Damgaard Larsen's party developed that view in relation to municipal autonomy, it is an interesting development that happens in what once called Denmark's liberal party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153022	Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153024	It is clear that municipal autonomy is very good at being able to adapt locally to the way the municipality should develop, etc. But when it comes to small minorities that can get into trouble, it is good that there is a big brother who can protect these small minorities, and so many of the small islands are. They are a very, very small minority in the very large municipality, and so it is easier to trick the little one rather than defend him. We see countless examples of this when it comes to the situation of the small islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153059-2	I am quite surprised that we are here to appoint a number of city councils for those who want to pry their own citizens. It's really worth a debate. I really think there is reason to appeal to the citizens to take up that discussion when they choose their city council. In fact, I find it quite surprising that we are standing here and saying: we are much smarter than the city councils and we are better at safeguarding citizens' rights out there. So we are on the way to canceling local democracy as something that works and can take care of the citizens' close concern and so on. It is really fantastic that this is the view that comes from that side of the House, but now I note that this is the way it is. The Liberal Alliance would like to emphasise that we actually have confidence in local self-government. We want to help carry it forward and we want to call for it to be used so that there is as much self-determination as possible and as few key rules as possible. This is the way to pursue a view of personal freedom and democracy in this country, which is what we are building on. So I would just like to point out that it is important to appeal to the local authorities to decide as locally as possible on the issues that concern local citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153207	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153211	I have great respect for the rapporteur's respect for local municipal democracy, certainly. But now that reality is pushing, sir... Leif Mikkelsen, what's the answer? Sir. Leif Mikkelsen says that it must sound from the parliamentary platform that we must recommend to the municipalities and that they must fulfil their responsibilities. Yes, I agree, and I do not think anyone here disagrees. But when reality shows that it is not the case that we do not comply with the intentions we have with some legislative proposals, for example. At the time, the bill to increase the subsidy to the small islands by 15 million. kr. and, in the past, the grant to several day care providers, etc. Is it just more recommendations, more appealing to responsibility, etc., when it does not lead anywhere, and when it now leads to some municipalities not all municipalities, but some municipalities in fact shun and give, if I may say so, the Folketing fuckfinger?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153324	Before we call the city councils into being those who are not persecuting at all what is good for the citizens and ourselves to be those who continue to believe that we should be better at it, I would just say, and that is what Mr. Henning Hyllested concluded by saying that there are in fact many city councils that exactly pursue what is intention and so on. I think there is reason for commendation, and there is reason to use the good example. That is why I just think it is really bad if you look at those places where there may be less appropriate action after the signals from the giver, saying: then we have to make more legislation and more rules and more bureaucracy and more management of the money and thus have less local self-government. It is thus a self-enhancing development that is destructive to local democracy. It's just too rare for us to raise that flag, because it's always easier from in here to make a new law and one more and a law more and then just a ministerial authorisation more to demand some reporting and big reports that fine people can sit and read. That is, in effect, what is helping to paralyse our society. So I just think we have to say sometimes: how about showing confidence and reminding citizens that they should sort of beat their own politicians up some attitudes about these things? This is a relevant discussion, instead of perhaps discussing less important issues when there is an election campaign locally, or not bothering to go to local election meetings because nothing is at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153447	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153451	Well, it's not just here, sir. Leif Mikkelsen, talk about signaling. Here we actually come as in the other cases I mentioned in my first post with a bag of money, even a quite nice bag of money in this case: 80 million. kr. a year. It's not peanuts, after all. Here we come with a bag of money, which we have some very clear intentions with what needs to be used for. I think it is perfectly legitimate for the Danish Parliament to say there: despite municipal democracy, etc. We don't want you to spend the money on anything else and put it in the slumpy county crate. In many cases it is a question of cramped municipalities, municipalities which are in need of their economy, so it is perfectly legitimate for the Danish Parliament to say: we want the money to be spent on this, because that is what we think is giving development on the islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153540	Yes, the Danish Parliament has the right to say so, I fully agree with Mr Tugendhat. Henning Hyllested in, and so is a large majority. You have to say it. I just regret it, if that is the case, that the money that goes out to the municipalities should be earmarked more and it must be determined from here exactly what they are going to be used for. That is what we are killing local democracy, and then it is that the interest in engaging in local politics at all is becoming less and less if you only administer rules that come from this Parliament. By the way, that is something I assume that Mr. Henning Hyllested has heard regularly, that it is often the opinion out there that because we retail manage all the funds and cash flows, you ask yourself what to sit there for, if you do not have influence yourself. That is why I would just like to appeal to you to take this local democracy seriously. Then it is clear that there may be a crown that is being used a little differently than we have imagined from in here, and then it is just that I say: you have to do that where you are close. And I would like to maintain that point of view. It is right to pursue rather than just come up with a little more legislation, more patchy solutions, more rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153636	Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153638	Thank you. It is the case that in the ideal world it would be the case that when we make legislative proposals in here at Christiansborg, they will of course be translated into the form in which we have made them, so that when we adopt a bill or when the government and the Enhedslisten agree on an extra 15 million for the small islands, they will go to the small islands and not to the sluggish municipal coffers. And when we agree on a reduction in freight transport on the islands, in the ideal world, the money must, of course, go to it. But unfortunately, in the real world, things look different. Is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen does not agree that what we are dealing with here is not something we are doing to satisfy some municipalities, but something we are doing for the sake of the islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153725	Yes, we are in complete agreement on that, because that is what the bill says. I just want to raise the flag in that it would be very good to have local self-government cleaned up so much by living up to the responsibilities and expectations that exist out there, and to deal with these problems which lead to special subsidies for special purposes, etc. It is true that we are probably not in the ideal world, and that is because for a very long time we have always made central legislation and more patching solutions and more subsidies and special rules and reporting etc. Finally, it is just a question of how you can manage as a Councillor if you just comply with all the rules and laws that have been adopted. And that is too bad; in fact, I think it reduces the value of the city council and therefore also the expectation that there are some who can actually think for themselves and find out what is good for their citizens, what is good there and how they spend the money best. So it is kind of an appeal: it is serious, so it is not enough just to expect it to come from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153825	Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153826	The people we are here to accommodate, those who live on the islands, are shouting in the hearing answers: please help us. Please make sure the municipalities can't get around us. Please make sure you get the legislation ready so this doesn't happen. Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, should we not listen to those whom we are here for in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153852	Yes, but does the questioner not think that it is bad that we have come there, that if so, there are citizens out there who have so little confidence in their own city council group and municipal council? Isn't it really bad that we got there? I think that is just the counter-question to that question, and it is actually a pity that it has become that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153910	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we go to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Per Løkken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317153922	The Conservative People's Party strongly supports growth throughout Denmark, and we have also presented ambitious targets for growth in our 2020 plan. At the Conservatives we welcome every initiative that leads to growth and development in Denmark. Many visits and studies have been carried out in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands, all of which indicate that political action is needed if we are to make it more attractive to live in rural areas and islands. The agreement on a growth package of June 2014 provides for a permanent reduction in ferry charges for commercial transport to and from the islands in order to support the economic development of island communities. This is an important step in which, in addition to allowing for lower tariffs, we also send a signal to all residents of island communities that we also want progress and development in their communities. The bill doesn't solve the problem alone. We would like the government to go further and ensure Internet and mobile coverage throughout Denmark. Internet and mobile coverage is a prerequisite for working and living in islands and rural areas. The specific legislative proposal translates part of the initiative, which deals with lower tariffs for the carriage of goods to and from islands on non-governmental ferry routes. Reduction of ferry charges for the carriage of goods may not exceed 80%. of the ferry tariff per year; 1 January 2015. We also welcome the starting point for the organisation of the system, namely that it should be a simple and easy-to-manage system, so as not to create unnecessary bureaucracy in the municipalities. We have full confidence that they can manage the scheme. Conservatives therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317154114	Thank you to the Conservative and all the other rapporteurs. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317154125	I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. It doesn't come as a surprise we've been discussing it a lot along the way that there's broad support for it. However, I would also like to thank you for a good debate, both on the legislative proposal and on the one that made some progress. There must certainly be room for that. After all, the draft law reflects the desire of a broad contracting group to support the development of the economy of island communities through a permanent reduction in ferry tariffs for freight transport. I believe that this proposal is appropriate to make a contribution to the business community of our islands to ensure that production on the islands can continue and, at a low rate, to get the goods to the mainland. The new scheme will mean lower costs for the business community on the islands, thereby promoting growth and living full-year communities on the islands. I hope that we will be able to get a speedy reading of the committee for the further implementation of the initiative in the municipalities and will therefore also just say right now that when we propose that an authorisation says that rules can be laid down, it is because we imagine that this is a phasing-in issue. When we are sure that the money is being spent properly and once it is incorporated into prices, we may not have to keep checking it annually forever and ever. That is why we have formulated the provision as we have, as is also stated in the consultation note. So I'm hoping to understand it. It is certainly not because we do not intend to follow up on the proper use of the money. It is just a matter of the fact that when we have been doing this for some time and are comfortable with it, we may not have to continue bureaucracy forever and ever. That I have already replied to that, I hope it will be possible to proceed quickly to committee if one could decide on it. Then I will finish by turning Flemming Damgaard Larsen's words into mine: just because you are not landproof, you should not sail your own lake.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317154314	Thank you. You green islands, home of my heart down here. With these Hans Christian Andersen words, I will conclude the debate, as no one else has asked for the floor. The bill is referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317154336	I give the floor first to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317154359	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Brian Mikkelsen to give the opportunity for us to discuss tax policy again. After all, we did that in my time as tax minister, and then Mr. Brian Mikkelsen was the tax rapporteur... and I think he still is... but now we're gonna have occasion for this in the municipal area. It is, at least in part, the re-submission of a resolution by the Conservative People's Party on the municipal debt, where, as proposed earlier, we will be required to present in the government a bill that freezes the ground debt of crowns and ears at the nominal level in 2018. And only if the municipalities decide to change the basic problem of guilt will the cause change. Furthermore, the Conservative People's Party, as something new, proposes that the responsibility for levying land guilt be transferred from the municipalities to the state. I can just as well state straight away, and it is hardly surprising to the authors of the motion for a resolution that the first part of the motion for a resolution, namely that the basic debt should be frozen at the nominal level in 2014, is, in my view, completely irresponsible. Firstly, it results in a very significant loss of revenue. Secondly, it is unevenly distributed and, thirdly, it risks contributing to an unstable economy. Over recent years we have seen rising housing prices and we currently have historically low interest rates. If you then lighten the tax on property, it can have major consequences for the housing market and for the Danish economy. It simply does not seem that the Conservative People's Party has considered that issue at all, let alone learned from the past. I must acknowledge that the Conservative People's Party has openly stated that, in the case of owner-occupied housing alone, the proposal will result in a loss of revenue of 4.5 billion. kr. in 2020. However, in the longer term, the proposal will have even more far-reaching consequences, because the proceeds of the debt will be continuously eroded, as the Conservative People's Party proposes that the land debt be frozen nominally, i.e. in crowns and ears. Of course, you might think so, but in my opinion it is not responsible. The Conservative People's Party proposes that the proposal should be financed by a corresponding lower increase in public consumption. That's something you can think of. It does not seem to me, however, that it has, I have noted, narrowed down proposals that increase public consumption. Most recently, I think it was policemen who wanted to hire more of them. However, this is certainly not a path that the government can support at a time when we have demographic headwinds: large vintages of older people leave the labour market and are replaced by smaller generations of young people entering the labour market, and in the years to come we also need and have room for a, albeit modest, sustainable growth in public consumption so that we can improve welfare and create the basis for and investment in growth and development. Let me remind you, moreover, that it was the previous government that introduced back in 2003 the so-called anti-increase rule, which the Conservative People's Party apparently no longer cares about. As you know, the rule means that the root cause can increase by a maximum of 7%. a year. Many have benefited from the rule during the boom, where there were increases on a number of properties, especially in the metropolitan area, and as a consequence of the rules, the root cause has then increased gradually. That is why it continues to rise, especially in the metropolitan area, until the ground debt is again calculated by the actual base value. That is what was considered fair in the then government at the time, and that is what we think is still fair. If you follow the Conservative People's Party's proposal, you will find yourself in the bizarre situation that some landowners will have made permanent the reduction in the basic debt that they have now achieved as a result of the base tax ceiling. Landowners who pay tax on the actual land value will not get a discount. That group will be able to see even with the proposal that the root cause is frozen even if the basic values may fall. It is therefore not a well thought-out model, with all due respect, as the Conservative People's Party is proposing here, because today, due to the limitation of growth, there may be a certain time lag. In the long term, however, it must be the actual basic values that must be taxed, no more and no less, and then the level must be discussed. The distributional consequences of the proposal are very skewed. Housing owners who have not so far paid the land due of the full value of the land will have their land debts locked below the real value of the property. The homeowners will typically have high income and will be resident in certain parts of the country, mainly around the capital. Many will even have gained a large tax-free capital gain at their owner's residence. On the other hand, in the positive corner, I would like to pay tribute to the Conservative People's Party for making it clear for this time that it is still the municipal council that has to decide on the root cause of the debt problem. So far, so good. Since the land tax is a municipal tax, it must be the municipal council that has to answer to the electorate for the truce of land that they are setting. In fact, after a period of relatively few changes in the communal land-use fundabilities, with the budgets adopted for 2014 and 2015, there has been a slight decrease in the average land-use funda mentality, especially in the metropolitan area. The trend shows that the municipalities are actively dealing with the debt as a municipal tax. Changes in it can only be made by local decision, and the country's local politicians have to ask themselves whether they will give priority to lowering the basic burden of debt at the expense of welfare benefits for children, young people and the elderly, or by increasing personal taxes. That's what politics is at its best. Then the rose stops, because the Conservative People's Party is now proposing, as something new this time, that the responsibility for levying the ground debt should be transferred from the municipality to the state. I understand from the proposal that, among other things, it is. due to the fact that the land debt is included in the government's 2020 plan, the state has decided that the landowners' land debt can rise by up to 7%. a year and that it is the state that has decided that the proposal must be at least 16. That is an argument that I find very difficult to follow. Firstly, the government's 2020 plan includes the economic challenges for the entire Danish economy, i.e. also the municipalities' economy. Therefore, the municipal debt is, of course, part of the plan, but that does not in any way mean that the debt has become a state tax or that it is a natural consequence that the state should collect it. Secondly, it is true that it is the Folketing that has decided the overall framework for the levying of the land debt, but that does not naturally lead to the state having to charge it. According to the motion for a resolution, it is still up to the municipalities to determine the basic amount of the debt, and the reason for this is and remains, despite the proposal here, a municipal tax which is intended to finance part of municipal expenditure. Therefore, it is important that this coherence is visible to citizens so that they can assess the municipal service in relation to the tax collected, and this is best done by continuing to be the municipalities that are levying the land. Moreover, the Conservative People's Party's proposal will be cumbersome and bureaucratic. It is generally the municipal council which makes decisions within the prescribed limits of the municipal property tax law, e.g.: whether to grant partial or total exemption from the payment of land due for certain types of property. With the Conservative People's Party's proposal, the municipalities would have to report any decisions they make under the Real Estate Tax Act to the State, which would then have to charge the final ground debt. This is not a solution that will promote efficiency in the public sector. On the contrary, it will help to create confusion both between the state and the municipalities and, above all, with regard to the citizens, who will find it difficult to understand which authority administers the rules on the ground of guilt. I therefore see no reason to change the division of responsibilities between the state and the local authorities in relation to the levying of the ground debt and therefore cannot support either the first or the second part of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155130	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155133	Well, the question is relatively simple. It seems that the government will allow housing taxes to rise at such an explosive rate that families cannot stay in their homes. I have an example with Mia Espersen and her family who have moved into a 160 m2 house in Snekkersten. Their property tax has risen from DKK 17,500. $50,000. This is an extra cost for the family of 32.500 DKK. per years. It means something in every family. So my question to the Minister is whether you will accept that there are families • ordinary families who cannot stay in the house that they have bought and in which they thought they had a future with their children, and that you just want to let go of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155225	The rapporteur is sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155227	Yeah, I was the last time I checked. First of all, I think there is reason to wonder loudly at the priorities of the Conservative People's Party, because no matter who you are, you can only spend the money once, and so you want to spend 4.5 billion. kr. towards 2020 and even more in the long term, which, if you had them, could have been used instead to reduce personal taxes. Then it is not decisive whether you are a tenant or owner, and it is, as we know, the owners who have benefited from the other tax rebates that have been in the owner-occupied area for many years. But no, here the Conservative People's Party gives particular priority to the type of citizens who live in their own homes, even if it does not contribute to growth. Secondly, I would like to say that it is not the case that this development, which has been created under the previous government with the slanted tax ceiling, means that these things will come later, after all, to make sure that we do not get a new price bubble. However, at a time when interest rates are low and the economy is growing again, people will be welcomed, and here in particular the homeowners, renewed insecurity by blowing air under pressure into a new bubble.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155348	Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155348-2	After all, there will not be an answer to my specific question, which is about decency; it is about politics and fiscal policy being a question of what you think is fair. For example, let us take the municipality of Aarhus; here the blame for the individual family increases from 2014 until 2018 by 30%. It may be the young family who live in an apartment in the middle of Aarhus. Yes, it may also be the head medical family in Risskov, but it may also be the ordinary young family who bought a house just south of Aarhus. They experience that they cannot stay in the coming years, but that they will have to move and that there is no one to take over their house. So the question to the government is still gone whether one will stand by and see that families will have to move out of their house or apartment because they cannot pay it, it costs because the land is allowed to rise year after year without the government doing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155446	Well, that's a little strange, because when you read the proposal, you can understand that the Conservative People's Party also believes that the root cause is a municipal tax. And that's why it's entirely up to the municipality to decide what the municipal tax in this area should be. But what it is all about is whether we think that the basic system should be such that it is taxed on the basis of the actual value or whether an artificial level should be set here which would favour those who have had high price increases at a time when the ground guilt did not follow because of the ceiling that has been imposed themselves, and thus not favour everyone else who can then join the queue of tenants who have no pleasure from this proposal. Or do we think that the tax policy we should pursue in here should benefit everyone? It has to be said that when you look at the last 10 to 15 years, you can see that there has been a tax policy which is clearly for the benefit of the homeowners at the expense of all those who are not, and who have not been financially responsible in order to avoid the insecurity of the homeowners when the crisis hit us and was reinforced by a housing bubble supported by the policy pursued in the years up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155551	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155554	I think it is violent for the Minister to use a word as irresponsible about this proposal to freeze the ground debt. After all, property taxes in Denmark are divided into two: there is a property value tax and there is a land tax. For the property value tax, it is already frozen on crowns and ears. It is, as far as I can understand, the government's policy that it should continue to apply until 2020, because if the government wanted something else, there was a majority together with the SF and the Enhedslisten to lift the tax freeze on the property value tax. So the government is in favour of that tax freeze. Apparently, it's not irresponsible. But if you want to extend it to include the root cause, it is irresponsible. That doesn't add up, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155640	As I indicated in my reply and as the proposal shows, it is 4.5 billion. kr., you talk about until 2020, which will enter at a time when prices are developing again, especially in the metropolitan area, so that you are almost back on the level, and that is at a time when interest rates are low. So yes, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who will be irresponsible again to favour with new discounts to the same home owners. In any case, it may just be surprising, because when one of the bourgeois parties usually talks about taxes, it is usually the tax on work that is the central challenge. And you can't spend the money twice. That is why I just ask: what about all those who live for rent, even in the metropolitan area, which it seems is particularly desirable to favour? Why not give them a chance to improve their economy if you think you have the money for it? It will have the advantage of contributing to the supply of labour and thus promoting growth, rather than this, which risks contributing to a new bubble economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155738	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155740	No, the money cannot be spent twice, and that is also why the Liberal Alliance is proposing that we should not have a growing public consumption in Denmark, which already has one of the world's largest public consumption, but that we should keep public consumption calm and even lower it slightly, so that there is money for, among other things, money for. This is because there are other considerations to be taken into account than those relating to the supply of work. There is also concern for the families who are taxed from house to house because the government wants them to finance most of the public sector added value that the government is proposing. To the point of irresponsibleness: the Minister talks about a bubble on the housing market, but it is not a bubble if prices rise as a result of tax reductions. It is, after all, a real price development which is a consequence of some other conditions on the housing market, where taxation is not as harsh as otherwise. It's not a bubble. It's a price development.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155829	I saw well when, at my request, the debate raged last week that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was out of that point of view. I could also see that it was in stark contrast to everyone else who spoke, including the economists, who, among other things, were: has examined the causes of the financial crisis and, of course, has pointed out that the housing bubble was part of the explanation for it. I don't know where sir. Ole Birk Olesen has been for the last 10-15 years, but it can't have been this area, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has followed closely, for everyone agrees that the policy that was followed, among other things. With the tax policy on housing, prices were affected. And I do not think that there are any homeowners who think that the last 4-5 years have been favorable and positive and connected with security.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155909	Thank you to the Minister and then we go to the rapporteur's line. First of all, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317155937	Owning a home is far more than shoveling snow on the sidewalk, changing the roof if it is leaking, and mowing the lawn in summer. We agree on that. One of the things that goes with this is paying a debt of land, a property tax to the municipality in which you live. Unfortunately, the last few years have been marked by great uncertainty for many Danish homeowners. The reason is precisely the property assessment system, which determines the extent to which the landowners have to pay. In the summer of 2013, the National Audit Office presented a comprehensive criticism of the Danish property assessment system. The conclusion was that SKAT hit incorrectly in 75%. of the cases in its 2011 valuation for parcel houses compared to the prices at which the houses were traded. That is, of course, bad, not good enough at all. I understand the frustration of the homeowners. I'm one of them myself. And I understand the background of the authors of the motion for a resolution that we are dealing with first in the Chamber today. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that Danish home owners can have confidence in SKAT's property assessments. So far, the government has not been able to provide a solution to the problem. Instead, the country's homeowners will have to wait in uncertainty until 2017. On top of that, the homeowners will have to wait for a model that may not mean an even greater increase in the housing tax for the individual home owner after 2017, in addition to what already applies with the current assessment system. And, of course, it is not sustainable at all. The Left finds the motion for a resolution sympathetic, and in the Left we would like to reduce taxes and levies. This year we have proposed reducing taxes by 5 billion. kr. But the money can only be spent once, and for the Left it is best spent on lightening the tax at the bottom, on the lowest labour income, so that it pays better to work, and on lightening taxes, so that the framework for business is improved. That's what creates jobs. This is what creates development throughout Denmark. So it is not a freezing of the municipal debt that is at the top of our wish list, even though we understand the concerns of homeowners. In the first place, the left gives priority to job creation and increased growth. It's good for the whole community. In addition, every municipality is free to lower the communal truce. It is fixed in the municipalities, not at Christiansborg. And it is an obvious opportunity for the municipalities to compensate the property owners for the increase in property tax by reducing the land tax. My acquaintance is only the Gentofte Municipality, which today has no opportunity to lower the root cause. This is because today there is a requirement that the municipalities should charge at least 16° in the land. In the past, the Left has proposed removing this requirement, because it must be up to the individual municipalities how much they want to charge in the land. Nor do we in the Left see any immediate reason why the responsibility for levying the land is changed from the responsibility of the municipalities to the responsibility of the state. It is a municipal task to levy a debt of land, just as it is a municipal task to determine the root cause of the debt. As the resolution is before us today, the Left cannot therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160343	Thank you, sir. Finn Thranum. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160351	The Left President, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, was two weeks ago in an interview in DI's magazine promising the Danes a completely waterproof tax freeze, a tax freeze which, as he says in the interview, means that taxes and taxes must not rise in Denmark if there is a bourgeois government. We agree with that, and let us see whether we are not going to work on it together in one way or another. That is why my question to the rapporteur is whether it does not include the houseowners as well. If the President of the Left promises a real tax freeze and a real tax freeze, it must surely also apply to the 60%. of the Danish families living in their own homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160435	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160437	That does not change the priority we have chosen to make in the Left with the money we have at our disposal. It is that we want to reduce the tax on the lowest labour income and that we want to go out and help companies with lower taxes and lower taxes. We think this is important for us to get the growth we need in this country going, so that we get as many people as possible into work and so that we get as much turnover in Danish society as possible. We think that's the best way to spend the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160508	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160510	So a future tax freeze, if there is a bourgeois government, is not a real tax freeze. In other words, a future tax freeze, if we have a bourgeois government, will not apply to the landowners if it is to the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160524	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160526	That must be the conclusion of the proposer. I assume and hope that the motion for a resolution will have an impact on some of the things that have to be done after an election, and then it will have to be a debate that can be discussed. But what I am replying now and here is that the priority of the Left is to reduce the tax on the lowest incomes and to lower the tax on business, because we think that is the right way to spend our money. We can't use them twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160558	Let's move on. The next short remark is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160604	When there are such discussions in public, for example. born of newspaper articles about basic guilt, you can often hear Left-wing members elected over here in the metropolitan area who go out and say they will work to freeze the ground debt. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left: what does the rapporteur of the Left think about having party colleagues who go out and say that they will work to freeze the ground blame when the Left does not really work for it? Isn't it like sticking a wool on their voters, so their voters think that they will have a certain policy if they vote for these Leftmen here in the metropolitan area? But they do not get it at all, because the position of the Left is represented by the rapporteur up there on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160652	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160654	I actually think it is a strength that I come from a broad party like the Left, where there is room for some to take a different view of it. They are chosen in a local area where this problem is significant and large. The property there is valued very high, which is why the cause is also a heavy burden. This must be the case, and that means that when you are going to find out how to solve the problems afterwards, all the elements must be included. But the official policy of the Left is what I am saying here, and that is that we only want to spend and can only spend the money once. At present, the priority we choose to make in the Left is that we will ease the burden on the lowest incomes, so that you are motivated to go to work, including by your wallet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160742	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160744	If voters who vote over here in the capital, now put their cross at Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen or Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left, will they then be able to see that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen or Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left after the parliamentary elections will vote for a freeze on the ground? Or will they follow the rapporteur's message and vote against a freeze on the ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160809	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160811	I will not be able to give a clear answer to that, since the individual Members who have been elected after the election of the European Parliament will have to make up for themselves, their convictions and what they will vote. That does not change the fact that a large party like the Left has a line to follow, and that is our official policy. Nor does it change the fact that there may be some individuals who disagree with that view. I think it is the strength of a party that you can have that dialogue, that discussion and that influence within a party, and that you have some different opinions and perceptions of what you think is right. After all, I come from Aarhus myself, where the rapporteur mentions that there are some homeowners who have some high property ratings that also give them a heavy burden. But then it is to be hoped that the homeowners have a great value in their homes and that this is important to them. That must be a nice feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160903	Thank you. We move on, and the next one, with a brief comment, is Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317160908	Thank you for that, and thank you for a speech, I think, quite frankly. That's nice to hear. I think it is interesting to hear the Conservative rapporteur talk about decency on this issue, about bourgeois decency, one must understand. I think it's when you call things by their real name. And I would actually like to sign up to the rapporteur of the Left to say that if you had the means to do so, you would have preferred to lower the tax on work and on business, because, as the rapporteur said, it would create jobs and it would create development. So my question is: what does the rapporteur think the concrete proposal we are discussing here will create? So what will come out of the proposal that the Conservatives have put forward here? I'm afraid we're in danger of blowing more air into a new home bubble. That's the kind of thing I'm afraid comes out of this proposal. But I am interested to hear how the rapporteur of the Left assesses the consequences of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161001	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161002	Well, we can start by looking at the tax minister's answer to the question of what cost it would entail, that is, the money we would have to find somewhere else to finance it here. That would cost us half a billion in the year we're in. kr., and that, by 2020, would have risen to 41⁄2 billion. kr. And that is, of course, some money which we then lack in the Treasury and which we must either refrain from spending or have to find elsewhere. With the money we have to do well now, we maintain what I announced, namely that we would rather be involved in ensuring that people with low incomes get some tax relief, so that, in addition to being motivated up here in the head, they are also motivated by their wallet, so that they want to come out and contribute to this society. At the same time, we also provide business with better conditions, better conditions of competition, so that business owners retain the desire to run a business and new business owners want to create new businesses, and then things come to terms with a higher unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161110	Thank you. Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161112	Thank you again for a proper answer. And what emerged very clearly is that it is a continuing rejection of the Conservatives' proposal that we are discussing here today. I think there may be many of those who support the rapporteur and some of us in rejecting the Conservatives, who might be interested in knowing what it would be like if the rapporteur's party were to be in government after a forthcoming election. So, can we be sure that the Left will stand firm and say no to the Conservatives' proposals and that this is not something we will look at on the other side of a possible new formation of government with the Left and the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161149	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161150	As with everything else of the Left's policy, what we mean before an election is also what we want to do after an election. We believe that this would be a great cost to society, and that is why we want to say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161213	Thank you, sir. Finn Thranum, because there are no more brief remarks. Yes, I'm sorry, there's one more brief remark that I just missed. It's from sir. Finn Sørensen, and you shouldn't miss him.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161229	Thank you. And it is true that I was very late in coming up with a brief comment, but what made me press the button was a comment which came at the very end of the rapporteur's last reply to Mr Tugendhat's question. Simon Kollerup. That was the good sentence that I very much appreciate politicians coming along with, namely that what you mean before an election is also what you mean after an election. In other words, we can have a clear 'yes' to the fact that, even after the elections, the Left will vote against the Conservatives' proposal to freeze the ground blame.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161305	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161306	After all, I stand here today as the rapporteur of the Left and have prepared myself for it. My statement is the one I have made, namely that we are rejecting this proposal. That is what we mean; that is what we mean after a choice; and that is what we are going to vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161319	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161320	I'll say thank you. Then we've had it cut out completely and bent in neon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161327	Thank you, sir. Finn Thranum, because now there are no more brief remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist Group, and that is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161336	The Conservatives' proposal to freeze the ground debt at 2014 level would, according to the party itself, cost up to 4.5 billion. kr. Conservatives propose that the proposal should be financed by cutting public spending, in other words zero growth in our welfare. However, freezing the ground is by no means the only cost-effective proposal made by the Conservatives. The Conservative wishlist is long and it is expensive. The list includes everything from the abolition of top tax and inheritance tax to the reduction of corporate tax and registration tax, and a number of other taxes also need to be eased or eliminated altogether. Somehow it may sound very nice, but history also means that money has to be found somewhere. And here I think it would suit the Conservatives to provide a clearer answer to where our welfare needs to be cut. Is it in primary school, in the care of the elderly, or is it perhaps the police officers who need to be fewer in order to finance the proposal that we have before us today? The Socialists do not want the zero growth that cuts our welfare. We believe that there should be room for investment in the Community and room for a modest increase in public expenditure. There is a need to invest in our community if we are to be able to provide the same public service, as there are more elderly people and more students, while health care, for example. must be able to use the most recent and often also more expensive treatment and medicine. The Conservatives themselves, when they were in government, had the same realization. The VK government's 2020 plan, and now I quote the words of the bourgeois people, stated the following: zero growth in public consumption for many years to come will actually mean saving on core welfare. It is on page 16 of the 2020 plan. So it's easy enough to promise tax relief in the east and west in this case mostly in the east, but when it comes to funding, many conservative bends are made to avoid answering it. I therefore believe that the Conservatives owe the voters a clear answer to who should pay for this proposal. Who will pay for the many promises made by the Conservatives about tax relief and freezing of land? Let me conclude, as did the Minister, by saying that we already have a ceiling on how much the debt is going to increase year by year. Today, the regulatory rate is set at a maximum of 7%. At the same time, municipal taxes must not rise below one, and in this way the landowners are protected against large increases in their land debt. Finally, of course, we also believe that there should be a link between the value of the land in reality and the value of which tax is payable. With these comments, I must inform you that the Socialists cannot support the Conservative People's Party's motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161655	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161659	The reason we are in politics is because we want to make life better for the Danes, so that you can stay in your home so that you can have a job. I therefore think that there was such a very cold, technocratic, very socialist presentation of why housing taxes are not being eased, why people are being hunted from house to house, in the presentation we received from the rapporteur here. I have a specific question for the rapporteur. On 5 March, the newspaper Politiken conducted an interesting interview with Keld Caspersen, who is 66 years old and who has worked for 42 years as a typographer until he retired. He is married to a nurse, and he has always voted socialistly, as he says. He has helped bring the current government to power, but he is puzzled, he is indignant, says here in the title, that the government with ever increasing property taxes is taxing him and his wife out of the small house of 97 m2 in Brønshøj. It is true that I heard that the rapporteur made such a little mockery of East Denmark, but there are also some people living in East Denmark, and Brønshøj lies eastwards, that is true. He has always voted socialistly to get good working conditions, he has been a member of an active trade union, he has had political comrades, etc., but he is a little tormented by the government chasing him as a pensioner, and he thinks that it is much they pay for the small reason. He then concludes by saying that it is not certain that they can stay in their house because the government allows property taxes to rise year after year, a typical good government choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161835	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161837	It is almost touching to hear the Conservatives swinging up on the high keys of union membership and good social democrats. This is in some way new in this Chamber, and it would also be new if you could get an answer to the same core choice of the government of the Conservatives, where it is that all this money should be found. Now the pensioner concerned, I could understand, and perhaps one who takes advantage of the public welfare benefits on some sections. That's 41⁄2 billion. kr., The Conservative People's Party will take out of the public system. That is a lot of money, and I wonder if Keld, who is the example in this case, will also be affected by it. So it seems a little like pretending to people that you care enormously about their situation, but in reality you cut down on some of the things that are the community that these people are also part of. We are very concerned about where funding is to come from, and that is what we are still not getting an answer to, but now Mr. Brian Mikkelsen saw an opportunity to stand up again and give that answer, because as long as it's missing, I think this seems completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161943	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317161945	I think you have to wonder in the rooms, because there is not going to be an answer to the question that is being asked. The question is: what does the government say to the many people? It may well be that some of them live eastwards, who live two thirds of Danes after all, but there certainly also live many westwards, in Jutlandic cities, who experience that they cannot stay in their homes because the government sits with its arms crossed and allows property taxes to rise. Here we have Keld and his wife, who live in a small house as they themselves characterize it as, at 97 m2 in Brønshøj, and they are not sure that they can stay in their home. So they lack an answer, and that is why I am asking the Socialist rapporteur the question. What is the answer to the families who do not see that they can stay in their apartment or their house because property taxes are allowed to rise year after year?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162039	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162042	Then we did not succeed in the second round, and unfortunately the questioner has no more chance of coming up with his answer as to where Keld and his wife are going to be without these things that we have in our welfare society. You cannot finance a proposal for 41⁄2 billion. kr., without ordinary people also feeling it as less public welfare. In addition, it is of course important that we have a regulatory rate of 7% right now. There are limits to this, but we cannot avoid the fact that with this proposal we are dealing with today we are missing 41⁄2 billion. kr. in our public box, and the Conservatives are pulling a little bit on their shoulders. I don't really think that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162130	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162132	That's right, sir. Simon Kollerup says that in the coming years up to 2020 more money will be needed because there will be more elderly people needing care and health care, etc. According to the government, it will cost 11 billion. kr. The government itself will find 12 billion. kr. by making the public sector more efficient. So the efficiency that the government is going to implement can of course finance the additional 11 billion. kr. to be used as a result of an increase in the number of older people. You don't have to cut back on anything, you can just use the efficiency billions. Sir. Simon Kollerup then says: What is to be cut down on? But that is not the proposal. The government will spend 20 billion dollars. kr. more in the public sector. This proposal will cost about 4 billion. kr., and that means that if you just spend 16 billion. kr. more in the public sector instead of 20 billion. kr. more in the public sector, you have funding for this proposal. There is no reduction; there is just the fact that you do not spend as many extra billions as the Socialists would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162235	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162237	I think that, in part of my rapporteur's speech, I did a little bit of recounting this proposal along with a number of other proposals for tax relief and tax reductions, such as. The Conservative People's Party has come along. And that is why it must of course be seen in a single package. But it is true that there are political differences, fortunately, in the Folketing. The rapporteur and the rapporteur's party would like to see a reduction in public spending; we say from the Socialist side that we want to invest more in our community; we would like to be able to afford a modest increase in public spending because we believe it is important for a proper welfare society. That is why we do not think it is reasonable to finance the 4.5 billion. kr., as this costs, out of our public welfare, and that's why we say no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162322	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162323	Now let's stick to this proposal. The proposal is that instead of spending 20 billion. kr. more in the public sector by 2020 than today, you only need 15.5 billion. kr. more in the public sector by 2020 than is used today. On the other hand, it is possible to ensure that the landowners do not have to pay any more in the ground. That is the proposal. Will Mr. Simon Kollerup looked at the proposal itself instead of talking about everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162354	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162355	Yeah, but it's fucking connected. In other words, the point is that where we are putting forward a policy that is based on the Community, which can invest more in public consumption, more in our welfare societies, this proposal is going in exactly the opposite direction. Money must be found; 4.5 billion must be found. kr. And it may well be that for the rapporteur it is a snap with his fingers, but then I would like to see where that money is to be found. Because that will cost you in relation to the investment you could make in our welfare society and in our community. And that is what I, as a Socialist, stand for, and we stand firm on that; we want an increase in public expenditure to be a modest increase, now well, but that is a no-thank you for pulling 4.5 billion. kr. Out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162437	Then there are no further brief comments, and I thank Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup. And then the ride's come to sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162450	As mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, the proposal is, of course, about freezing the ground debt, or, more specifically, on the ground, at 2014 level. Then there is another point in the proposal that is about transferring responsibility to the state for levying land debts, where it is today the municipalities that do so, however, so that it must still be the municipalities that have to set the bill. It is a re-submission of a proposal from the past, but with the amendment that it was previously 2013 levels that had to be frozen. In the Danish People's Party we think it is quite a sympathetic proposal, because it is undoubtedly an issue that concerns the lives of many families outside Christiansborg's walls. Brian Mikkelsen mentioned among other things. the example of a pensioner who, after all, had the challenge of a sharp rise in house prices. This is undoubtedly a problem that matters to people out there, because it can definitely overturn a family's economy with the high ground blame phonies. If you look at developments, it does not look so positive in the future. For in 2014, the ground debt was set to bring forward 27.2 billion. kr., and it is so expected that it will rise to 36.3 billion. kr. in 2020. That is a rather drastic increase, and it must therefore be said that if it is frozen, it will certainly give stability, as the proposal says, because there will then be no increase. I would also like to say that there are, therefore, a number of challenges in the proposal which has not been immediately clarified. We can, of course, do that in this debate, and they have already become part of it. It is imagined that the root cause will be frozen at 2014 level, but that assessment does not exist. Should you lock it at the level of the 2011 assessment? It is in the assessment where the Reichsaudit said that three out of four houses were wrongly assessed, either too high or too low. So I guess it doesn't really make sense at this stage to talk about a freeze, because then you would lock people at the wrong level, either too high or too low. I do not think that is particularly appropriate at the moment. These could be other solutions you could use to solve this problem. One could, of course, be, as is actually a little possible today, to freeze its property taxes. Nowadays, the owner pays an interest rate for it, but one could choose to reduce the interest rate. The owner of the property could freeze the property taxes until now he chooses to sell the house; at least he is not burdened by them until then. Many of these places, where they have the high ground debt, have also had high value increases, so they may also have a higher free value in the house, which means that they could then pay a little later. At least it could make them not smoke from house to home now. There is also the possibility that the municipalities can reduce the root cause, at least the vast majority of the municipalities. I think it's only Gentofte that's down to the minimum limit of how far you have to put it down. So there are other options you could use. As far as the funding in the proposal is concerned, that is probably where I see the main problem. For it is a rather expensive proposal that costs 4.5 billion. kr., which must be said to be quite a considerable amount, also in a state budget. It is then proposed that it be financed by lower public growth. The funding is a little loose, it has to be said, because I do not really understand what is planned for public growth and what will then be spent less on. But immediately we cannot just say yes to having lower public growth, which is being used in this area. That is why we cannot support the proposal, but are prepared that once we have a new property assessment, which hopefully hits more precisely, we will work towards finding a solution to the problem. And it could, among other things. be frozen or other solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162846	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317162857	Thank you. With this resolution, the Conservative People's Party will freeze the ground debt on the amount applicable for 2014 and also allow the State to assume responsibility for the collection of the basic taxes. I can immediately reveal that the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution for a number of reasons which I shall now address. First of all, the aim of the debt is to tax the value of the land that one owns, that is to say, the land is in line with the value of the land. This motion for a resolution will fundamentally change that principle with a freeze on the ground. Of course, we cannot support that. The Radical Left believes it is important to create predictability for the landowners. We fully agree with that as to how much one's land liability can actually increase, and therefore, from 2003 there has been a ceiling on the increase in the base of the land tax base, the so-called base tax ceiling, where the base of calculation can, as a rule, rise by no more than 7%. Furthermore, the 2013 decision to continue the 2011 assessment provided a reduction of 2.5%. for all private owner-occupied dwellings, and that is on the basis that the basic debt for 2015 and 2016 is calculated. By this we also in the Radical Left believe that proper consideration has actually been given to the landowners. Secondly, freezing the debt of land would result in an estimated lower revenue of about 4.5 billion. kr., as proposed by the Conservative People's Party, financed by unspecified savings in public consumption. In other words, we need to save on welfare in Denmark, corresponding to perhaps around 7,000-8,000 employees. The Radical Left cannot support cutting welfare, and we actually lack an answer from the proposers as to whether it is the children, the sick or the elderly who have to pay for this proposal to be implemented. Thirdly, a freeze on the ground would be a repetition of the irresponsible economic policy pursued through the '00s by the bourgeois government with the support of the Danish People's Party. As a result, housing prices ran out of control, which after the financial crisis, when the housing bubble burst, has in fact tied a great many Danes to their homes. With the current low interest rates, rising housing prices and a low oil price, freezing the land would be like throwing gasoline on a smoldering fire at the risk of a new home bubble, with which Danish homeowners in no way can be served. Against this background, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, including the proposal to allow the state to assume responsibility for the collection of basic taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163144	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163151	We've heard that song before. What I merely appeal to is that when you are a member of the Folketing and are to represent the Danes, you must also take into account the six out of ten Danes who live in their own homes. Here we can see that many of them feel that they cannot afford to stay because property taxes are increasing year after year because they can see that the horizon ahead of them is that, despite our low interest rates, there are so many areas of Denmark where you pay more in debt than you pay in rent, instalments on loans and contributions. I hope that the rapporteur can, after all, see some unreasonableness in this. So my question to the rapporteur from the Radical Left will be: do you not also care about the many families that we see cannot afford to stay in their apartment or their house? After all, we must also have a political interest in them, because we legislate for the whole of Denmark and not just for some theorists who think that housing taxation is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163259	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163301	There are several answers to the question that Brian Mikkelsen raises here. I think that one of the things that is actually important is the ceiling that has been set for an increase of 7%. After all, it provides a predictability for the homeowners, whom I agree with, there is a need to take into account, so that as a homeowner you know what your expected increase may be in the coming years. Secondly, the answer is a little that when you have this basic tax on debt, it is precisely that it reflects the actual value of the property, and that principle would seem to me to be a little unnatural to leave here. Perhaps I could turn the question a little rhetorical and ask whether the Conservative People's Party could imagine proposing that we lock it down, for example. our income taxes at a nominal level, just as they are proposed for the reason here. For me, that would be to break with the principle that applies precisely to the ground debt that we are actually taxing on the basis of a concrete property value. So the question is a little: would the Conservatives lead, one might say, this logic goes further and also fix the concrete tax on, for example, the The income?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163408	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163410	If the Radical Left wants to help reduce income tax, we would very much like to do so if you can convince your big brothers in the government. After all, we have proposed reducing income tax by increasing the employment allowance and by removing top tax. So the Radical Left is very welcome over with us to discuss those things. But what we are discussing now is the homeowners who experience that every year you get 7%. On top of 7%, it is in a situation where you have bought your house as an ordinary family, you have paid your taxes, you have paid property value tax, you have paid land tax and everything else, but yet you find that it is increasing year after year. So my question to the rapporteur is still gone as to whether it is not clear that it is unreasonable that every year we are being skinned more and more in taxes and that we are at risk of having to move from home and home because of the increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163458	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163500	I think we should be very careful not to do a disservice to homeowners by introducing this proposal. In other words, what I said in my rapporteur's speech is actually throwing petrol on a smoldering fire. What it can contribute to is an increase in housing in a way, so we get a new home bubble, and then it happens again, as happened in the 00s, which made Danish homeowners actually get tied to their homes, because the value suddenly fell so much, so that you did not actually have any value left in your home and therefore could not get rid of it. This is really the worst thing you can do for homeowners, and that is why it is a bad proposal. The second reason why it is difficult to endorse this proposal is that we have 41⁄2 billion. DKK not financed. We can go out and promise a lot of things to the voters, but if we do not subsequently tell the homeowners who also use our home care, who also use our hospitals and our roads, can say what it is they can no longer get, then I really do not think we have made so much progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163600	Then we move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, who also has a brief comment. No, sir. Finn Sørensen does not have a brief comment. It's forgiven. I'd missed that, and I'd have taken Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen with one more time. That doesn't change the fact that we're done with sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163630	That has been said before, and I say it again, that this is an old travert we are dealing with here, namely that the Conservatives want to undermine and preferably eliminate the municipal land-use. But the fact is that this land-use tax, and indeed housing tax, is a better method of taxation than the taxation of labour income, which is a fact, moreover, repeated from time to time by a large number of economists in the country, among other things. economic wise men, the Productivity Commission and the National Bank. SF agrees with this, also because property taxes are generally a more socially equitable method of taxation than only the proportional income tax that we otherwise have in the municipalities. As has also been said, it is also the VK government itself that has already put in place the perilous framework within which the municipal basic debt is levied. We can read in Jyllands-Posten today how the home bubble is coming. A large majority of Jyllands-Posten's panel of economists believes so at least, and Mr. Brian Mikkelsen speaks himself in the article, so Mr. Brian Mikkelsen must be familiar with it himself. With all the good arguments that have come up against this proposal, I will not prolong the debate any further, but just say once and for all that the SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163757	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge. This did not give rise to any brief comments. We are moving forward, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317163814	Thank you. We fully agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who had a good, strong argument as to why this proposal is totally economically irresponsible and a number of other good arguments which I do not need to repeat. However, I would like to point out in parentheses that the Enhedslisten is also of the opinion that it is irresponsible to continue with the tax freeze on the property value tax. It's just so you don't put more into the excellent alliance we have about this proposal than there actually is in it. There is no doubt that this proposal will lead to even more inequality. This would strongly favour homeowners and lead to a distortion of the housing market. Since 2002, Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen introduced his famous It is a course that the Conservatives will now follow more sharply. And it might be interesting in the course of this committee work just to clarify how many billions of dollars we are actually talking about, because it is certainly not pennies. After all, it is so directly antisocial to want to finance the tax cuts for the homeowners here at a total of 4.5 billion. kr. through further cuts in the public sector. It will again be the welfare it will suffer, and the consequence will be even more inequality. Let us not get confused by the fact that the Conservatives are pushing ordinary employees' families in front of them in this project. These are quite different interests they want to take care of. Indeed, it is the rich homeowners with the expensive houses who benefit most from this proposal. Moreover, the cuts in welfare will primarily affect these ordinary employees' families, of which the Conservatives are now presenting themselves as the great defenders. It is a very good thing that the Left and the Danish People's Party do not vote in favour of this, but that should not be fooled either. The policy of the Left will have the same consequences as this proposal, even though the method is different. After all, it is not free to give tax cuts to low wage incomes and to finance it with severe cuts in cash benefits and cuts in public welfare. It is certainly not free of charge for the people it is going to suffer, and it is going to go as hard on ordinary employees • perhaps it will be even worse than with the proposal that has been put forward here. We recognise that the current rules may cause problems for low-wage families or families affected by long-term unemployment or illness. For it is certainly not fun to get into the situation of the rules which the Conservatives have helped to implement together with the other parties in the Folketing with regard to tightening in relation to cash benefits, sickness benefits, cash benefits, etc. So this is just a good example of the fact that the Conservatives' concern for low-wage families and ordinary employees does not go very far in the end. That is precisely what illustrates that they are working for quite different interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164120	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164125	I am, of course, aware that the huge ideological discussion in the Enhedslisten about private property is about whether or not you should be allowed to keep your toothbrush. But here it is something as fundamental and important as being allowed to live in one's own home, which is one's family's home, also as a pensioner, etc. That is why I would like to ask the otherwise very sensible rapporteur of the Enhedslisten whether it is socially fair policy that pensioners who have worked their entire lives as ordinary employees and bought and paid their homes are now in danger of being squeezed out of their homes, for which they have paid themselves, because of the higher reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164207	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164208	I think I was able to mention that there may be some problems with the existing rules, and we are looking at that at the moment. But I do not see any light in this proposal in terms of resolving the problem that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen points to there. Then I would still point out that if Mr. Brian Mikkelsen really cares, for example. pensioners' welfare, like Mr. Apparently, Brian Mikkelsen cares very much about the welfare of ordinary employees. Perhaps Brian Mikkelsen could do some self-examination and look at what kind of economic policy that is, like Mr. Mikkelsen. Brian Mikkelsen has helped to lead for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164247	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164248	It is a policy which, through reforms, has made Denmark one of Europe's strongest economies and which has ensured a great increase in real wages for pensioners, and this can only be done because a sensible reform policy has been pursued. But we'll have to do that some other time. Here I am hearing, I think, an interesting opening from a party that discusses ownership very passionately from toothbrushes to banks' nationalisation and which goes more realistically to it than the government. For Enhedslisten's rapporteur this is what I hear here, at least, admits that there are some problems for some people with the increasing ground debt, while the representatives of both the Social Democrats and Radicals say that there are no problems at all and that it works well, and that those families who cannot pay their ground debt just have to move from their house or apartment. But I will then sign the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for a constructive approach to this in recognition of the fact that there are some problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164341	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164343	Thank you. The policy that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen is responsible for, of course, has led to a huge increase in inequality and poverty in this country. But okay, we'll have a more thorough discussion of that some other time. With regard to the constructive aspect, I would say that it will come to light when we are, as it were, ready with a view to what might be done in this area. Well, then we'll see if mr. Brian Mikkelsen still thinks it's a constructive approach we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164409	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164413	I think it is a pity that in the public debate people say things that are not true. And Mr. Finn Sørensen has just said something that is untrue even three times. Three times Mr. Finn Sørensen the word cuts in public welfare about this bill. Can't we just have Mr. Knox? Finn Sørensen to confirm that the proposal is that instead of spending 20 billion. kr. more by the year 2020 in public consumption only needs 15.5 billion. kr. more in public consumption by 2020, so that this is not a reduction, but simply that not as much extra money is spent as the government proposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164459	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164500	I think the rapporteur will have to deal with the technicalities with Mr Beazley's report. Brian Mikkelsen, how it's actually screwed up. I am just referring to the proposal and that it should be financed through cuts in the public sector of 4.5 billion. kr. And whether you see it in one way or another, and whether you spend less than you should have done otherwise, that leads to those cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164522	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164523	Well, sir. Finn Sørensen does not save himself by making stupid remarks from the platform. If you spend 15.5 billion. kr. more in 2020 than in 2015, this is not a reduction, so it is an additional consumption. And the proposal here is to spend 15.5 billion. kr. more by 2020 and not by 20 billion. kr. more so that there is money to keep the root cause in order. Otherwise, sir. Finn Sørensen says 20 billion. kr. is also a cut compared to spending 30 billion. kr., and that 30 billion. kr. is a cut compared to spending 50 billion. kr., and that 50 billion. kr. is a cut compared to spending 100 billion. kr. When is that not a cut? Is it when you use the whole of Denmark's gross domestic product that it is not a cut in relation to that you could use more?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164608	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164609	I fully agree with the rapporteur that one cannot save one's argument and policy with clever calculations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164619	That's so, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no further brief comments, so I will pass on the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317164634	The root cause is a strange amount. The property tax in Denmark is a bit strange, especially because of the ground debt. We pay two property taxes in Denmark. First we pay a property value tax and then we pay a ground debt. The property value tax is a tax of all the value of the property. If a house costs 3 million. kr., then you can in principle pay tax of 3 million. kr., which is made up both of the land on which the house is situated and of the house itself and the location itself... everything is included in the property value tax. So you already pay taxes for your property through the property value tax. Then, apart from that, we have a reason to tax the land once more. It is not enough to tax the land once we have to tax it twice, say those who love the land. This means, of course, that housing, where the land occupies a large part of the total property value, is going to pay extra tax in relation to housing, where it is not the reason that draws up the property value, but where it is other good factors. For example, you have... a nice apartment on the Copenhagen waterfront, where there is views of water and maybe right over to Sweden on a good day, then there is not a viewing tax on that accommodation. It is only taxed once. If the view is worth 2 million, you will only be taxed by the 2 million once via the property value tax. But if you live in a one-family house because you are a new family who would like to have grass under your feet, who would like to have the opportunity to send little Peter out to play football in the garden or let little Peter play in a sandbox or send the dog out to feed in the evening before going to bed, that is, the kind of thing you can come up with when you have a new family, then you have to be taxed extra. Wow, where to tax, because you have land to a greater extent than those who live in apartment have land. On the other hand, they have something else that they think is good. Why is that fair? We are faced here with the situation that in a few years' time, for example. In Hvidovre Municipality, a house worth 2 million. kr. be taxed twice as hard as an apartment worth 2 million. kr. Forget that the broadest shoulders must bear the greatest burdens, it is they with gardens that must bear the greatest burdens! The person who buys a $2 million house. kr., probably has no more money than the person who buys an apartment for 2 million. kr., but he still has to be taxed twice as hard on his home. Where is the reasonableness of that? Why should different types of housing be discriminated against in this way? Some have a desire to live in apartments, others have a desire to have. Why should those who have a desire to have because they have established a family and want to put the children on the grass be taxed so much extra? We fully support this proposal put forward by the Conservative People's Party. We ourselves have tabled a similar motion for a resolution; it is an integral part of our policy that the root cause must be stopped in its exodus. It cannot be that it is people who live in houses who have to pay for the government's overuse of public money. The government wants to spend 20 billion dollars. kr. more in the coming years in the public sector, and it is especially people who live in houses who have to pay the money just because. This isn't about broad shoulders, it's about, like I said, those with grass that have to be taxed extra. There is one element in this motion for a resolution which is about the state having to take over the debt from the municipalities. We do not see that quite wisely, and it is not really something we support. However, we are going to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, just because it is being debated, but with the addition that if there were to be a final legislative procedure and debate here in the Danish Parliament, we would not support the idea that the basic levy should be taken over by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165113	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165117	Thank you. If people are led to believe that if you live in a condominium you do not pay a ground debt, I would just like to say that you do. The reason you're paying, like Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen says, a little less than this homeowner in Brønshøj with a garden, it's because you're more people sharing the land. So that's actually very logical. That is exactly what is the principle of the property value tax, namely that it is a tax on the basic value, and when there are more people to share it, you are also more to pay it. There's nothing weird about that. My question is a little bit about this less revenue of 41⁄2 billion. kr., which lies in this proposal: what is it like in relation to the other savings made by the Liberal Alliance in the public sector? it is 41⁄2 billion. kr. On top? And could Mr. Perhaps Ole Birk Olesen could also clarify how much money it is in the other proposals that we need to save in the public sector? The question is: How many are already on the table with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance, and these are 41⁄2 billion. kr. Some more money we have to save in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165221	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165222	No, the 41⁄2 billion. kr. is already part of our 2025 plan, which we have got through by the Ministry of Finance, so they have been found. We are not taking on any additional funding because we are now voting in favour of this resolution. Regarding the sharing of the land and the fact that there should be no unreasonableness there, I would say that there is an unreasonableness, for the dwelling consists of several things, several factors give the housing value. Then there is one of the factors that you are dragging out and saying: it has to be taxed twice. It might as well be another factor. There could be a special land tax. If, for example, you're gonna have to... had over 100 m 2 This means, of course, that home owners who have a land that fills something and has a greater share of the total property value are taxed extra heavily compared to other home owners, where it is some other factors that make up the majority of the property value. And we can't understand that. Why should there be this discrimination between different types of housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165329	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165331	At least we were able to clarify that it is not another 41⁄2 billion. kr. to be found here. But could Mr. Ole Birk Olesen tell us where it is in the public sector that we have to save with the proposals that already lie on the part of the Liberal Alliance in which welfare areas is what you think it could be exactly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165349	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165350	This proposal to freeze the ground debt comes from our policy from a family paper that we presented in the summer of 2013. In the family plan, we find the money for this basic debt freeze from the billions that are not used extra in the public sector when you have a spending freeze. So that is where we find the money, that is, by not spending extra money in the public sector. As I said earlier in the debate here, it is all about spending 20 billion instead of spending 20 billion. kr. extra by 2020 will only spend 151⁄2 billion. kr. extra in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165430	Then we move on to the next brief remark. It's from sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165435	Thank you. It is in some way, I have to admit, a little liberating sometimes to hear the Liberal Alliance, because the curtains are swinging when you go to the platform like that. It can be very liberating, but on the other hand you may also sometimes feel that it becomes a bit of a blow in the air, because you swing up in the high liars, but you do not really do anything about what you then stand and say. I think that there was a long svada about all the misfortunes caused by the blame in Denmark, and that we have a reason at all. That is why I would like to see it frozen now and only in 2014 prices, that is what the level of ambition is enough for the rapporteur to help defend the concept that we have a reason today. I heard it a little like a double taxation of ordinary people and so on, so I would like to defend the groundwork as a construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165526	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165527	It's gonna be hard because I'm having a little trouble understanding the idea of the reason. We have two proposals in the Liberal Alliance. One proposal is to freeze the ground debt. A more far-reaching proposal is to set up a one-tier housing tax system so that there is only a property value tax and no extra ground for it. Anyway, what we're going to vote on is a freeze on the ground. The second is something we can address if there are other parties in the Folketing who see the light and recognise with us that it is a problem that there is the overtaxation of single-family houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165611	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165612	It was more interesting than I had just expected. So in the Liberal Alliance you have a policy on which you go to the polls, and then you have a policy on which you do not really go to the polls, but which you still have. That sounds really exciting. Perhaps the rapporteur could help to tell me about the policy on which we are not going to vote, but which we still have? What loss of revenue will we have in the public sector as a result of this proposal? As I can just get the figures right on my fingers, abolishing the ground debt will be the first 25 billion. kr. At least that is no longer 4.5 billion. kr. But with that little secret policy, it's all of a sudden a lot more billions. Could we get a figure of how much money is missing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165654	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165656	It's not a secret policy. We have told you about it in the daily press when it was relevant. But the proposal is that if you live in an owner's apartment today, you have to pay the same in the new property value tax that you pay today in property value tax and land tax. If, on the other hand, you live in a family house, you have to be put down in the new property tax so that you pay no more than people who live in the condo. It is true that it will cost a few more billions than this proposal, but it has been thrown out for open debate. At some point, apart from us, there must be some parties in here that do not yet see that it is a problem that one overtaxes one-family houses in relation to condominiums.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165747	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers. It's sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317165757	The root cause increases from 2014 to 2018 in Gladsaxe by approx. 30%, in Albertslund with 22 per cent, in Herlev with 30 per cent, in Køge with 17 per cent, in Kalundborg with 30 per cent, in Aarhus with 23 per cent. They are ordinary families who are affected by something as irrational as the root cause increases year after year by 7%. On top of 7%. It's ordinary families who have paid their income tax, their VAT, who have paid all sorts of other taxes and taxes in this society. These are ordinary families who have paid for their homes. They are ordinary families who have paid property value tax year after year and who have also paid their land tax. Yet you find that especially the government and unfortunately also bourgeois friends are failing the property owners in Denmark. Nevertheless, we find that the Folketing does not take responsibility for the six out of ten Danes who live in their own homes. You are abandoning ordinary families, whether it is the pensioner who has lived 42 years in his house in Brønshøj, as I mentioned earlier, and who may not be able to live, or the young couple of 27 and 28 years of age who have bought an apartment and who cannot afford to stay either because of the increase in property taxes. It's a failure of dimensions. In the Folketing, you just let it go. You close your ears, you close your eyes and you cross your fingers that everything will be fine, while everything can fall around the government in the next few years. So there is a need to take responsibility, a political responsibility for families to stay in their homes and not to deal with all sorts of theoretical arguments about a home bubble, or that it is good to make housing tax instead of income tax. What kind of nonsense is that? Of course you can do both. It's not a question of either or... In our 2020 plan, we have proposed the removal of top tax, the raising of the employment allowance, the lowering of corporation tax to 15%. and a large number of other measures to make the country more competitive, so that people can keep some more of their own money while at the same time freezing the land debt nominally. Why are we doing this? We do so on the basis of a question of value and a question of justice. We do not think it is right for homeowners to pay so much of the party for what the SR government in particular was proposing with regard to public growth, and we also find it disappointing that our friends in the Left and the Danish People's Party are putting up for the same consumer party, because it is proposed here that homeowners should pay for public growth, instead of saying, as we conservatives believe, that spending should be stopped in the public sector. In this way we can finance that we get growth, that we get competitiveness back in Danish society and that we treat people properly and decently. In fairness, it has to be said that the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was excellent in their arguments and I am pleased that they also support the proposal. I have also noticed that something similar has been proposed in the past, so it is not a question of who has a monopoly on what in this respect, but a question of being fair and fair and also proper. For what is the situation? If we take an ordinary family in e.g. Copenhagen or Aarhus, the situation is that the expenses, the ordinary family in, for example, a house of 140 sqm. It's an ordinary family with two children... is bigger than what you pay in rent to live in your house. That's grotesque. It's baroque. What kind of society have we set up? If you could even imagine it a few years ago, people would run away screaming. But this has, of course, been accepted by the SR government, and unfortunately the Left and the Danish People's Party also accept it, that is, that people pay more in debt than they pay in instalments and contributions to the loans they have. That's crazy. That is why we say: let us freeze the land, just as we had the property value tax frozen when the VK government took over in November 2001, ensuring peace and security for the landowners. Then, for inexplicable reasons, we must cultivate something more... that a very large part of the housing tax was transferred from the property tax to the land tax. Hokuspokus, it was a very coincidence that some tax authorities just got it done because they could let the landguilt run out of control in relation to the property value tax that was fixed. Then we have to say that this must be enough. Now we have to stop the party, which for some is about just going in and picking the landowners for money. Then it may well be that, as the Socialist rapporteur, it is just said that it is an East Danish problem, but I think that the two thirds of the Danes who live there think it may be a problem for them, but it is also a problem for the rest of Denmark. That's why it's not a question of where in Denmark this is happening. It is a question of being fair and treating people properly in a democratic society governed by the rule of law. That is why our appeal is still gone, not least to our bourgeois friends, if we win the elections together and have a bourgeois government, then we must behave properly and decently towards the homeowners and ensure that, firstly, they can stay; secondly, they will have the security and security that they know they will not have to pay a penny or penny more in property tax. It is also to be hoped that the Social Democratic Party, which has at least previously been on the side of the houseowners in some respects, will also return to good old-fashioned, classical social democratic policy, with the fact that, of course, ordinary employees living in their homes must also be taken into account. So this is a matter of how we need to intervene now so that we do not see people have to move out of their house and home, that we intervene in time, and that we prioritise this area much more than we have done, by ensuring that the root cause is not allowed to rise in crowns and ears in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170510	Thank you, sir. Brian Mikkelsen. There are some brief comments. I'll start with sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170517	Thank you. I think it might be equally strong tobacco to hear that now we have to take responsibility and now we have to be decent. I do not think that was the characteristic of the policy pursued in the '00s: the policy that led to a home bubble. After all, it is not very responsible to the landowners that they may be put into such a situation that they become technically insolvent and thus tied to their houses. That's what happened during the '00s. As far as accountability is concerned, after all, we are far from Christmas Eve, but some gifts are being distributed here, and it is therefore also a question of giving funding to its proposals with responsibility. There I would like to ask the authors of the motion for a resolution what is in the word'stoppage' used. That is what we others call savings or cuts in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170614	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170616	Now I'd better be careful what I say, and now we'd better talk nicely to each other. I do not understand how a stop to spending can turn into savings. In other words, a stop to expenditure is a stop to expenditure; it is not savings. If I look, and this is addressed to both S and RV, at the public spending policy from 2011 to 2013, perhaps to the surprise of the radical rapporteur, and at least to the surprise of the Socialist rapporteur, I could hear that from a previous question • there has been a minus increase in public spending. In their last budget estimates, the government is setting a growth rate of 0.1 per cent in 2016 and then we are accused of having a growth rate of 0 per cent. A stop to spending is to be financially irresponsible and to bomb the welfare society. The government is encouraging growth in 2016 of 0.1 per cent.! There we say: from zero growth we can therefore finance that the homeowners stay in their homes while making society more competitive by lowering some taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170732	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170733	If sir... Brian Mikkelsen has DKK 4,500. less a month in your private finances, I think you have to find out at home at the kitchen table what you shouldn't do. In other words, it is quite the same situation when you put forward a proposal in which you withdraw some money from the budget of the state or the municipalities, because then there is something you have to stop doing. That is a rather simple question, and that is what I am asking for an answer to: what should we stop doing in the municipalities if we draw 41⁄2 billion? kr. out of their budgets?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170802	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170803	Now we are talking about the landowners, but I have to correct the rapporteur for the sake of the people who are also seeing this. When we talk about a stop to spending, it's about if we have 100 kroner. Today, we have 100 kroner. plus what has happened in social development regulated up to 2020. So we don't have $4,500. less, we have exactly the same number of crowns even regulated up. So there aren't savings for a single penny here. But what this is about, and unfortunately it is a long apology from a party that I like, namely the Radical Left, but which has looked mad at the landowners. I don't understand why, but you have to do that yourself. But here it is about something fundamental, something reasonable in ensuring that it is not the homeowners who have to pay the party, by their housing taxes rising year after year, and there we put our foot on the brake and say: Now we must ensure that the homeowners do not pay a penny or a penny more in housing tax in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170904	Then we move on to Mr. Simon Kollerup, who has also asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170907	Thank you. I think it has been interesting to be involved in this debate and to see the Conservative rapporteur be so enthusiastic in the debate all the way through: questions have been asked that have been talked about social democratic core voters and there has really been a slap in the face of the slap in the face. Then things got a little sluggish when you had to do the rapporteur's speech yourself. It ended up being a rather quiet appeal that it was then hoped that the friends in the blue block would be able to consider perhaps going in this direction. If the Conservative People's Party means so much by the proposal that has been put forward now and if, when we talk about this bourgeois decency, we really demand that it be implemented, then I do not understand why this is not called for here as part of a bourgeois majority after a possible election. Why isn't that a requirement, why is it just an appeal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170953	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317170954	We are quite clear that housing taxes should not increase a single penny or a single penny, which means that both the property value tax and the land tax are locked. So if we get power as we have watched, we make sure that the housing taxes fall. For it will be the reality if you lock them in crowns and ears; then it will mean that you will pay less in housing tax year after year. When we were in government ourselves, the VK government, we went to the polls for tax relief. We got that done. We had 71⁄2% chopped. of marginal tax; we got chopped up parts of corporate tax; we got a lot of good things done that our friends among the other bourgeois parties opposed at that time but which were implemented anyway. So when we say something, we will, of course, have it implemented as well. And that is what we are going to vote on, and that is how democracy must work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171046	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171048	It has to, and I think it's fine too. When I needed to ask the question, it was because there was a controversy over the rapporteur of the Left and the question about this, I think it is called the waterproof tax freeze this time, i.e. that taxes cannot be changed. That was a statement by the President of the Left, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, come with me. And I just understood the Conservative rapporteur to the effect that, if you were to join the Left's tax freeze, it would be a requirement that the housing tax should not be increased in dollars and cents. And I just need to know whether such a requirement applies and, possibly, why the same nominal freeze does not apply to other tax areas in such a waterproof tax freeze.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171128	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171130	Our question to our friends in the Left is that a tax freeze is probably a tax freeze and that it must apply as much to the property owners as to other parts of society. So if we are to be able to accept a tax freeze, it must of course also apply to homeowners, so that they do not pay a penny or a penny more in housing tax. But that has to depend on a debate. Now, first of all, we need to have a parliamentary election, and then in the second chop, and it is good that the Socialist rapporteur accepts that paragraph... we must have a bourgeois majority. I hope so too, and I understand that the Socialist rapporteur also believes in that. And if we get the bourgeois majority, then we, the bourgeois parties, must negotiate what the policy is to be. It has to depend on a good old-fashioned political fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171216	Yes, it would be a very good thing if the next brief remark were to be made by Mr Seligman. Finn Thranum from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171222	Thank you. I fully agree with the proposer that we should behave decently and properly, including with the houseowners, and that is why we have a problem with the fact that we have assessments that do not fit or are at least incorrect. So it has to be a nearby thing that we need to get to grips with. At one point in the argument, the proposer mentions that pensioners have a problem and it is clear that an expensive root cause is, of course, a burden. But isn't there still an opportunity for the pensioner to freeze his basic guilt so that he can stay in his house? That was one question. Then the author of the motion for a resolution has referred to these approx. 5 billion kr., as it ends up with at some point. Where, then, will the proposer find that money in public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171319	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171320	Now we have together made it more expensive to get pensioners to save up for their homes, so to speak. But it requires that you have a free value in the home, and it is not certain that you have it because of the falling housing prices. We expect that 20-25 percent of homeowners are virtually technically insolvent, which means that their housing debt exceeds what the house really is worth. Then it is difficult to get rid of the house, and so it is difficult, so to say, to be able to deposit any housing tax there in the form of a ground debt. With regard to funding, the government envisages a growth in public spending of 20 billion. kr. Until 2020. There we say that if we have a spending freeze in the public sector it is, moreover, in line with what the Left also thinks we can fetch the 20 billion. kr. We will then spend the 4.5 billion. kr. in the end in 2020, as it is accumulated up to, to ensure that the homeowners can stay in their accommodation so that they do not pay a penny more, a penny more, in housing taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171428	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171430	Now I think that many of those we are talking about here must of course have some great value in their accommodation, especially if you have lived in it for 40-50 years, as the author mentioned before. Now it is the case that one has the possibility of reducing the ground debt to 16 per thousand and that we have suggested that the root cause could go down to 0 if the municipality so wished. Does the proposer still agree that it was a good thing to be able to do so, so it was up to the municipalities? And then I would like to ask: why is it that Conservative-led municipalities do not avail themselves of the opportunity to reduce the basic problem of guilt to the 16 per thousand? For that is what only one Conservative-ruled municipality has done, namely Gentofte.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171521	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171522	It is fortunate that the only municipality in Denmark that has reduced it to the lowest percentage is a conservative municipality. If you measure it and take the mayor's posts that we have in Denmark, you will see that we have the lowest basic blame truce in all the Conservative municipalities, it is also considerably lower than in the municipalities run by the two other major mayor's parties, and that is the priority they have chosen out there locally. At the last budgetary settlement alone, the blame for this was reduced in several of the Conservative municipalities. But it must be up to them, it is 98 municipalities that make their own choices. I am just glad that they have followed the same policy in some of the municipalities, so the Conservative municipalities are the ones who have the lowest basic blame of all municipalities without exception. But it is a sovereign decision they make themselves, and they have to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171606	Then there are no further brief comments, and I thank Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen. As far as I can see, no more people have asked to speak, and that means that the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150317171625	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 18 March 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
