ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2738	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office delivered to the Croatian Assembly in April 2015 a report on the audit of the effectiveness, financing, programme of NGOs and institutions of national minority councils for national minorities. The subject of the audit was the activities of the National Minorities Council on the allocation of budgets to NGOs and national minority institutions for 2013 with the aim of assessing the regularity and purpose of the use of budgetary resources allocated to NGOs and national minority institutions and to verify and assess the effectiveness of the use of these funds. On the basis of the audit of the established facts, the Office estimates that the funding of NGOs and national minority institutions programmes through the National Minority Council in 2013 was not fully effective. Among other things, the revision has been established, it is not clear whether the proposed funding programmes have been selected in accordance with the rules and cannot be determined how the amount of funding from the budget has been determined. The share of the allocated and allocated funds of 10 national minorities compared to the total allocated and spent funding for cultural autonomy programmes is significantly higher than their share in the total number of members of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, while for the share of 6 national minorities allocated and allocated, compared to the total allocated and spent funds for the financing of the cultural autonomy programme is significantly lower than their share in the total number of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Certain NGOs and national minority institutions have submitted to the National Minority Council a yearly report which cannot confirm that the funds have been spent as a whole. The control of the use of the funds of NGOs and national minority institutions implementing the Council does not cover a valuable amount of funds. Some NGOs and institutions of national minorities paid copyright fees for jobs that are not copyright works in their nature. The documents contributing to the reports on the implementation and spending of cultural amateurism and cultural manifestations in certain cases have not provided evidence of the programmes held, no register books and travel expenses have been provided. No payment purpose is indicated in the representation accounts and to which the programme applies and no service users are mentioned. In certain cases, NGOs and national minority institutions have been authorised for cultural activities and manifestation programmes to be used entirely for the representation of payment of legal services or the purchase of gifts and no transport account includes transport service users, travel orders are accounted for and paid for for departures to congregations, meetings and presentations of the association. In order to remove identified irregularities, the Office has made recommendations implementing which would increase the effectiveness of funding for NGOs and national minority institutions in the achievement of cultural and information publishing programmes and the preservation of ethnic, cultural and linguistic identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2739	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. The Honorable President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2740	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed this report at the 1st session held on 28 January 2016. The Committee considered this report as a parent working body. The debate shows a joint assessment that the proposed report makes a significant contribution to the greater transparency of the funds provided in the state budget for the financing of NGOs and national minority institutions and the allocation of which is decided by the Council for National Minorities. It draws attention to the fact that the report refers to 2013 and that the audit procedures were carried out from November 2014 to March 2105 and that the debate on the report is happening only now in 2016. Nevertheless, it has been stressed that the recommendations made in the report will contribute to better and more effective work of associations and institutions of national minorities. It is pointed out that earlier procedures have already been carried out, these audits have been positively reflected in the activities of associations and institutions of national minorities. Thus, in some of the audit findings have just contributed to detecting and solving the problem as in all other organisations of course in work, and have led to changes in the administrative and supervisory bodies of the institution. In this respect, it was pointed out that the work of the revision is of multiple benefit not only in the control of spending of budget money but also acts as a preventive mechanism that detects possible irregularities in the conduct of associations and institutions of national minorities. In this respect, it is pointed out that the recommendations related to copyright fees, which were paid for works which are by nature, which are not copyright works, as well as the need to establish criteria for accounting, payment of copyright fees, for writing newspaper articles. It also made a significant contribution to the promotion of the work of the associations to the recommendation that funds approved for cultural activities programmes and manifestations cannot be used for the representation and purchase of various gifts, but also for covering overhead costs of more than 20%. As the debate highlights, representatives of national minorities are secondly discussing these recommendations because they are in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and members of the Council for National Minorities. In spite of this, the recommendations of the State Audit Office were conducted with a comprehensive debate at the Council meeting and there were certain amendments both in the work of the Council and in improving the criteria for the evaluation of the programme and the consultation of cultural autonomy programmes. In these discussions, it is particularly difficult to find a good balance between public interest, the interest of a minority and the development of cultural autonomy of national minorities. It is also pointed out that the additional difficult environment in the work of the Council is the marked humane sub-capacitation of the Office of the Council, which employs only 5 people. On the other hand, national minorities are not employed professionals, and it is difficult to avoid mistakes in the work that is common to all associations. The debate draws particular attention to the recommendation to apply general criteria relating to the number of members of the national minority who did not apply the Council when granting financial support to NGOs and national minority institutions, and there has been a significant imbalance in the share of allocated and allocated funds to individual national minorities compared to their share in the total number of members of national minorities. But also the opinion of the members of the Council and representatives of national minorities, that the number of individual national minorities should not be the only one, nor should the main criterion for the allocation of funds be the number of members of the association, and the quality of the programme that the association reports. In addition, attention is also drawn to the specificity of the Roma national minority, given the large number of associations and minorities and the lack of basic technical preconditions for the work of these associations, which further makes it impossible for individual associations to register the programme, so that there is a growing number of those applying to competitions. Finally, a common expectation has been made that the next State Audit Office report will confirm that the Council adopted the recommendations and made the necessary changes resulting in a better allocation of budgetary resources and better control of a larger number of associations, i.e. a more valuable amount of funds. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the audit carried out, the effectiveness of the funding of NGOs and associations and institutions of national minorities, i.e. the National Minorities Council, is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2741	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of representatives, the first club will be that of the Croatian Labourists, and the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2742	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I would like to say with a few words, here is actually what the taste is at least in that formal sense and of course is always asking whether it makes sense to discuss something that is 2013, 2014. It is of course pasture in a formal sense, but it certainly is not, because from these very years we can read something that is still current today and what actually seems to me to be both a problem for today's situation. Of course, the objections that stand can be accepted at least to the extent that we decide to do so, we agree on what the funding criterion is whether it is the number of members of national minorities or whether they are actually content, the quality of the content of the cultural programmes offered. And all these objections stand, the documentation is extensive, so it's hard to read how it's actually being funded because I'm aware of it, because I'm a minority myself and I'm a member of any minority society, then there's a lot of things going on. In fact, sometimes out of ignorance, most often out of ignorance, it spreads, and sometimes, knowingly, it's a little blurry to cover the tracks, and eventually the authorities don't think of what to say, so they don't read where these money's being spent. Because money is spent a little bit on the team, a little on directorial expenses, but ultimately it's not a secret that over minority associations actually solve some social issues which is perfectly clear and shouldn't be a sin to anyone, but it's a fact that exists and we just have to respect. Now I could talk about it and talk about it, but I think the board president, Mr. Radin, said the point. I would point out that the Council has five members and that it is really busy with the work and I would have to commend Mr Tolnauer's advice because at least in the event that I had an interesting reaction and actually showed that they were really following and doing their job. In other words, what I really think is a problem. I will now return to that quality of content, this program. I'm going to apologize because a decent man comes from his minority community, and I'm a member of Slovak by my mother and father, a member of the Slovak community, and it would be rude not to know now, so let me say what is done with Hungarians. Although, of course, since I'm from this area where Hungary has a lot then some Hungarians tell me as a minority bothers us that they come from Jobbik, it's unacceptable for us. Me personally too, but please it's a legitimate political party to me unacceptable but the fact that some of us like to dress up in black uniforms and march there. Therefore, I have no right to object to anyone. That's what we have to do in our house first, isn't it? But the fact is that when we talk about my minority community, I want to point out right now that I'm not a good Slovak, so at least I've spoken for years, simply because I'm critical of the community I'm living in. And I think the expression of love is just that you're critical of the community where you live and where you belong, not that you're actually talking fairy tales that you don't believe in. That misunderstanding of ours began, of course not between everyone but between some when it was '95, '96. The year was offered by Slovaks at the meeting of the Slovak Mother of Slovakia that Mr. Shakespeare represents the interests of Slovaks in the Parliament. And the Slovaks had in Parliament their representative from Daruvar... who did it very well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, Shacks is an intelligent man, he was there, and he didn't accept it, but he didn't say no. I, of course, reacted and said it was rude, it's not right, I wrote an article about it and, of course, you become a bad Slovak. But as far as I hear it, there are fellow MPs here telling me that I am also a man who does not love Croatia because they follow me and they know that I have never said anything nice about Croatia. This is very interesting, what are the criteria of love for Croatia? Just by the way, who's licensed for patriotism? So as a minority, maybe I should show more love than others? I don't know, what are these criteria? People with short minds have their own standards. I think it's very difficult to judge the country. At the end of the day, I'd just like to warn you of two short things. Stanko Lasic wrote a great book with Matan, called "The House Is a Hard Question." Homeland's a tough question, it's simple for someone who doesn't even think about it. And on the other hand, the patriotic ideology that we all often like to call upon I will refer to one of the Czech philosophers, Jan Patocko, who wrote "Friendly 77."", that is one of the authors, where he says patriotism is like an emmenter – smells, attracts, tastes but is full of holes, voids. And now those gaps, you fill up whatever you want and we get what we get. But to go back to what was the taste of things, which is that the Slovaks, my Slovaks, at that age when the review seemed to be the editor-in-chief of that magazine Prameña monthbook that came out, in the translation "Source" did he get such inspiration, and then he wrote about what kind of people significant from Slovak history, and among other things he wrote about Joseph Tisou, it was lauda Joseph Tisou, which was in three stages. I must admit I froze when I read it because I really didn't understand that man's motives. I'm reading, is it possible that Tiso is a patriot, that Tiso isn't... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it possible that Tiso is not responsible for all the terrible crimes that took place in Slovakia? Here's just one little piece of information to illustrate for those who don't know it, actually Tiso is Slovak Pavelic if they can translate it in such a way as to make it clearer. And then, among other things, Tiso is responsible for the 184 Slovak rabbi 180 rabbis were executed in camps. The Slovaks also showed a great self-initiative in addressing the anti-Semitic issue and problem. So if you're already writing about it, then write about it. Well, that's a nice ideology for you, but just mention it, that's just facts. It wasn't and I was simply reacting, wrote an article, it was read by someone and Mr. Tolnaur was reacting and that man was simply asked to leave the post of President of the Matica Slovak. So he was at the most responsible function in our community and left the post of editor of that magazine Prameοn. Now that would be all great if it were actually a question of what happens now when such a single text appears which is obviously a complete pamphlet of stupidity, nonsense. How and in what way? Do you still finance that? Well, of course it's supposed to be funded, so it's not him, how can I say I can't answer Slovaks because of the stupidity of a man of course. But that's what happened. What do you do? It happened what happened, and it's like it's always been swept under the carpet. In other words, a new team came to thank me for what I did, but they were otherwise dissatisfied with this gentleman who did and privatized things, now they came but don't talk about it anymore. Well, others do. So now we're not gonna drag the Slovaks out when everyone else is doing the same thing to you. And Mr. Pecnik, you're a bad Slovak, you don't like Croatia. So don't point things out. Let's do what the Jews would say. Let's move on to another thing. In other words, nothing happened. Now, the thing is, I find the question interesting in all of this, and that's why is it that in a minority magazine one initiative is launched? What's that man's motive? So I think the main motive is that it was realized that an atmosphere of desire was created to talk and write about it that way. And we're now saying that we're witnessing an escalation of intolerance, hatred, xenophobia, all of it alive, so even the prime minister was asked to write a letter in favor of dialogue and tolerance. I'm the only one who thinks the Prime Minister made a mistake, he could have whispered to his first vice president, and I think the matter would have worked out in the best sense of that word, not to write letters, but fine. He likes writing, I guess. So either way, that man did it just because he realized that it was actually a space promotion. It can be promoted because it's the desired space, you can see what's going on. It's not this escalation since yesterday. So we're talking about how it started before the election, so I don't know how it goes. Well, that escalating violence of speech lasts 20 years of my people. Then it's like a sinkhole, she comes out and disappears and explodes again. We're back in the middle of some kind of explosion, aren't we? And then when you hear that speaking against HDZ is to speak against Croatia, that you do not love Croatia, when you hear that a group of intellectuals ask that armed forces for home-ready greeting be introduced as an official greeting, when you hear that in church, we are now talking about the headquarters of this society, culture, politics, church, defenders. So in the church you hear Bishop Kosic, the assistant bishop of Pozaic, mentioning only the feathers. And you freeze to death from the statements people make to you. And these statements are purely racist and chauvinistic. And then they get angry when you warn them and say don't touch the church. Well, of course no church is going to touch, but if she's on the political market and she's acting politically then she has to suffer and political criticism of course not on the side of faith, because the thing of faith is the private thing of every single person and no one smart will question how to call the church she has. But if he interferes in world affairs and interferes and interferes, he has the right to interfere, but then he must experience criticism. So in this sense, it's actually a question of how, in what way to valorize these things, how do we prevent ourselves from finding ourselves in a situation where we're going to read again that someone else is very good and that there's really nothing wrong with doing and they're just going to offer and poison the bride with the truths, with the fakes, with the lies, and we're going to, do I have to shut up? Is that ideologies now? Do I now know no one to insult by what I said? I'm simply expressing my position and I think it's good that you know that, but it happens to be convinced in many other communities that live here just about that, here's the bad letter or I don't know someone who dared talk about it or wants to talk about it because I really think that the real statement of that love is just that in some way it's a warning to that fact. Now, there's also another problem, here they're saying that minorities, MOST, we love all of them minorities, they're decorations, etc. And that's true on the one hand, but we would, we're the happiest when minorities dance in their towers as they say. Let them deal with folklore, let them dance, let them sing it's nice, it's all great, and of course it's a folklore question of identity, language issue, but maybe we should work on it and let's say in my minorities the problem is language, people don't know language, they forgot language, they corrupted language. I'm Slovak, I'm speaking fluent Slovak, but I don't know how to write Slovaks, I didn't go to Slovak school. But let's just say I can write Czechs and speak Czech better, I write Czechs than Slovaks because I studied there. But I speak Croatian best and I write. Now somebody tells me I'm not a good Croat. Well, I was born here, and I feel like this is my country. And now if I'm talking about how someone doesn't like it so let him get away, let him go or let him give me some reasonable argument as to why it is. But not just a score that goes by and just stays like a label. So minorities should also deal with content that is not just folklore, which are serious content. So they question the situation in their community, question the country's relations, for example the Slovaks, have Mecher, have now Fico, the relation to migrants in Slovakia is like that. So there's a lot to write about without insulting anyone without simply talking about the problem. But no, God forbid that minorities do it because they're going to resent someone, they don't have a qualified frame, they're going to stop funding, someone's going to twist their pipe, which they're going to say, etc. So we need to open up and realize that no matter how much the majority people love minorities, that love, that hug sometimes hurts. It would be better if they loved less and had one more rational approach because it would be easier and better for all of us. I simply put this out because it seems to me that many like not to know more than to understand and I try to understand and I ask you to understand what I've put out here as a problem. And now, of course, I'm going back to the end, on what would be said, and the subject is revision. The problem is that here people would be audited, and I think they understand, realize that we actually need to approach the position of positive discrimination against some associations above all Roma. They really don't know, they write well, so then they have to be taught. A whole education needs to be done to make people think of writing programs, for that. That's what I heard, of course, but obviously it's missing. Because if you're going to be very strict by the law here, I'm going to quote the other Tito "You shouldn't stick to the law as a drunk float," at least then it shouldn't be held as a drunk float simply because it's about communities that are weak, minority and which, if something or little is, it's nothing compared to the big bar. So this isn't an invitation, not to be immediately understood now, and I advocate that the laws are not respected, but simply to understand the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2743	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, my colleague, Pecnik, I did not naturally use Article 232 on which I was right, you spoke for 14 minutes about a subject that had nothing to do with the financing of the programme and the revision. You've mentioned everything and everything, you can't paralyze me, you could read it in the Rules of Procedure. You mentioned everything and everything, from Tisa to your personal conflicts with some editors, etc. This is completely inappropriate, and on your example I ask everyone else not to follow it and not to listen to it today, not only about Ustashas and partisans, but now we'll start listening to maybe I don't know if I shouldn't insult my colleague Juhas about Horti or don't know God let us start hearing about all the possible things from 70 or 80 years ago or how much. It really doesn't make sense. I ask you to stick to the subject, the topic is reviewing the effectiveness of funding and nothing else historical, personal stuff etc. Here are a few replicas in which please try not to follow the example of fellow Pecnik. The first will be representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2744	Dear President, I understand what you're saying is that this is not ideological, forum for ideological debates but at the same time would only briefly tell Mr. Pecnik that minority rights in Croatia are discriminated against by Croats. This can easily be proved, for example, by this revision, by the award of money and by the privileged status of minorities. No such minority in the EU has the same rights as these minorities in Croatia. All we have to do is read the rules of the Venice Commission to see what's going on here. For Croats out there who were born out there, it takes three years for citizenship. We have 3 representatives for the diaspora, 3 million Croats out there, we have here 8. On average, you need gentlemen of the minority to get 1,500 votes to get a parliamentary seat and Croats outside of 14000, for an average parliamentary representative. At the same time, we'll, we'll talk about money, we'll talk about clean money. The Serbian Orthodox Church has been awarded an invalid contract from the Croatian government since 2002, half a billion kuna. At the same time in Croatia you have 17 thousand believers of the Croatian Orthodox Church who have no status at all and those Orthodox believers of Croatian faith, Croats have more believers than all the communities except Islamic. That's what I'd like to talk to you about. At the same time, what is Mr. Pecnik to repay the seized property that was seized after '45? It was taken from the Croats by minorities. What about the companies after '54? years, villas in Zagreb, etc.? Who's talking about it? Is there a fund for the return of the seized property? I would only conclude that Croats are discriminated on every element here and not minorities with higher rights than in any country in the European Union. I'm alive in Canada and there's a vote as Canadian Mr. Radin Furio. And you have been here longer than Queen Victoria, and have done nothing for the Croats, my friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2745	You've exceeded your time and unfortunately you haven't responded to my call and appeal, but your distinguished representative, Jaroslav Pecnik, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2746	Well, I'm now in a dilemma about how to respond if I can't mention my problem. I'm afraid you're going to reprove me, but here I am going to put myself in that danger, so I'm going to say it. First of all, I wasn't elected on the minority list, I was elected on the Labour list, and I got about 4,000 preferential votes somewhere, which is why I fit into some average that would be said. So that's where you made the mistake of shooting the wrong shot. Second, you're talking about property here now. Well, my family was also taken away from their property, and it wasn't returned. My men were farmers, the seized property was never returned. What am I supposed to cry about? That's right. Well, neither has the Jews' property been returned. That's a far bigger problem for me. Why hasn't the Jews been returned to their property? The President of the Parliament spoke of the need to do it, and here I think it should be done, did he say it, as far as I remember. And third, about the money. I said, the happiest will be the people then if the minorities give the money and say, "Be happy, that's it, and you have, and whatever else you want." No, if you say anything wrong, if something goes wrong, you're against something right now. Well, don't look like that. Well, minorities say wealth, so let them be wealth, so understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2747	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2748	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will stick to the subject and quote the findings of the state audit, I think we should talk about it today because there are many lessons here and when it comes to someone else. So I quote: "Some NGOs and institutions of national minorities, along with the annual report on the implementation of the programme, are delivering to the National Minorities Council a non-transparent, non-systematised documentation from which they cannot confirm that the funds have been spent as a whole. While individual NGOs and national minority institutions have shown expenditure on employees in the framework of annual and financial reports which is not in line with the methodology for monitoring and achieving the programme of NGOs and national minority institutions. The control of the use of the funds of NGOs and national minority institutions provided by professional services and accounting services does not cover a valuable amount of funds. In addition, individual NGOs and national minority institutions paid copyright fees for jobs that are not in their nature. Also in a number of cases there are no criteria for calculating the payment of the author's fee for writing newspaper articles, the amount for the text card, the photograph, the cover,... text, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In certain cases, NGOs and national minority institutions have spent their resources on the programme of cultural activities and events entirely on the team." This is the theme of our debate today. And I will finish with the following, fellow Pecnik of you as members of the national minority and citizens of the Republic of Croatia if you have already launched this topic then I expected you to refer to what happened a week ago in Belgrade at the Red Star-Cedevite game. So no one in Croatia responded to the Chetnic orgy. No one in Croatia has responded to the Chetnic orgy at the Serbia-Croatia small football match in the hall. And I suppose someone should have responded to this beaten young man in Vukovar, which is unfortunately the result of these ideological divisions that occurred in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2749	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic. And forgive me, answer, answer, pardon the answer, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2750	Well, I didn't quite as extensively as you read it because Mr. Radin read it but I was talking about that problem documentation, that something was hiding in that... documentation, all that was said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see that I said anything the other way around about what you said. And for what you've called me, I'm not the president of the Basketball Federation of Croatia, basketball doesn't interest me, so I'm not obliged to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2751	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2752	Mr. Pecnik, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and you, article 238, and you, Mr. President, should have warned him of that. The red star is not a member of the Croatian basketball union, the Red Star is a member of the basketball union of Serbia and it happened in Belgrade and not in Zagreb. And you will not experience such a thing in Zagreb at any basketball game in Zagreb or in Zadar and you should know it in your Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2753	Now, I'm asking you nicely, we've been going wrong from the beginning, from the very morning and from the first speech. I beg you nicely, let's stick to the subject. We stick to the subject because really don't make me resort now to the business methods that you know of course exist. Let's stick to the subject. The theme is to review the effectiveness of funding. Nothing else is the subject. And that subject, unfortunately, let me now say this report that's negative and instead of talking about it, we're talking about everything and everything else. So I'm asking you nicely, please, let's stick to the subject. As I said, there is now a word of honourable representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2754	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's fellow Pecnik, you mentioned everything except how much national minority associations spent in 2013. It is 37 million 530 thousand 478 kunas that are not actually justified through programmes, and this report clearly says that these funds are not adequately justified, that the documentation provided is insufficient, that it is not seen where they are spent, that the funding, most of the funding goes to 17 million and 983,000 for information, and in this information there are lists that have actively dealt with against Croatian activities I would call it, calling it the Croatian disabled Homeland War "the brothel of the Patriers", Dr. Franjo Tudjman and Gojko Šuška "devils", our beautiful "dude of our hood" and such scenes with state money, which are not just and spent on fees, travel expenses, the National Audit Office team clearly wrote that these associations must return them. Well, that would be a nice subject if you had started to pay back the money they spent illegally, and I would like to have fun with it, as well as the State Audit Office, because it says, "It is proposed to request the return of funds from NGOs and institutions of national minorities that have incurred overhead and other costs greater than the amount granted and those which are not rightly justified." It was clear that the subject of Milorad Pupovac and his publishing activities that were without justice, including President Josipovic, at some point with the State's attorney's office, requested an investigation into these malversions that occurred, that the money for national minorities was justified by a publishing activity that did not exist at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2755	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2756	Well, I was just reacting and talking even though it is said that it is not the subject of an anti-Croatian text, because what was presented in Pramen is also anti-Croatian. Because if we're a country that fought against fascism, if we're democratic anti-fascists, then I guess that one text regardless of whether it speaks of Horti, Antonesco to anyone else is simply an anti-Croatian text. And as for what you mentioned, I've already talked about it, so I won't talk about the topic of news because there's going to be an open discussion, and thank God no one needs it. My attitude is well known, and of course everyone has the right to an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2757	Thank you. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2758	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, it's hard for people who replicate to keep themselves within the framework of the topic when the reporter of 14 minutes 13 minutes is off topic and in some way through these 13 minutes is not noted. I will therefore try to you in view of your appeal only to replicate Mr. Pecnik to what is in the framework of the topic, which is that the fact from this revision which is extremely negative, and very correct and quality written, that the selection according to certain associations, minority associations is visible. And you know why she's visible? It's visible because Mr. Pecnik here says the prime minister wrote a declaration to calm the situation. Imagine this, the parliamentary representative said he could whisper to the Deputy Prime Minister. It's been a while so someone could whisper. Whoever whispered in this audit has received a lot more funding and no one today can do anything despite the appeal of the audit that he must recover funds into the Republic of Croatia's budget, and the funds were given exactly as you say he could whisper. That is why there is no whispering, legitimate and transparent and so on and through the audit report I hope that an institution will be found to force these minority associations to return funds to the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the associations that have whispered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2759	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2760	Well, when I was talking about whispering, you obviously didn't understand me, so here, but I asked, I thought Mr. Prime Minister when he wrote his letter that I support about dialogue and tolerance missed the address. That's all I said. That's what I dare say and that he could whisper to his vice president because he's the generator of what I see as a problem, which is, let it be my opinion. So I wasn't talking about the whispering you're talking about. I even asked that as much as I remember being a little more tolerant of them, and it was agreed on the board and as much as I remember that a system will be established to monitor what is happening in minority communities, that it can be spotlessly informed and that it can potentially affect both quality and content, but of course also finance. So here's what you've been wasting your time on, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2761	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives Bandic Milan 366 and the national minorities Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj and Vladimir Bilek, the word will be taken by the distinguished colleague Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2762	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed rapporteurs. As a colleague said earlier that the report refers to 2013 and the audit was carried out from November 2014 to March 2015 and we are discussing it only this year. I can say that the aim of today's debate on the review report is to consider the recommendations made in the report to see how much these recommendations can help to improve and improve the work of associations and institutions of national minorities. As I could expect, the revision is focused on controlling budget spending and serves as an incentive for both the rational spending of funds and preventing irregularities in the conduct of associations and institutions of national minorities. However, it is necessary to take into account the reality of minority associations which cannot count on employees and not on a significant number of volunteers in order to exercise their rights. Some national minorities in their ranks do not have members of national minorities whose profession, education, standing position and financial opportunities enable volunteer work. In the report of the State Audit Office, Table No. 3 showing the allocated and spent resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 for programmes for achieving the cultural autonomy of national minorities. And according to that information, as set out in Table No. 3 It is evident that the share of the allocated allocations of 10 national minorities compared to the total allocated and spent funding for the cultural autonomy programme is significantly higher than their share in the total number of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, while for the share of the allocated resources of 6 national minorities compared to the total allocated and spent funds for the financing of the cultural autonomy programme is significantly lower than their share in the total number of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The State Audit Office is of the opinion that that means of allocation of funding for cultural autonomy programmes is not guaranteed by the principle of equality because the allocation of funds is not subject to a general criterion relating to the number of members of national minorities. The State Audit Office proposes to the Council, in accordance with the rules for granting financial support to NGOs and national minority institutions, to apply general criteria relating to the number of members of the national minority. In the discussion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, it was said that the Council did not apply a general criterion relating to the number of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, which led to a significant imbalance in the share of allocated funds and resources to individual national minorities compared to their share in the total number of members of national minorities. The opinions of the members of the Council and the representatives of national minorities that the number of individual national minorities should not be a criterion for the allocation of funds but rather for the number of members of the association and the quality of the programmes that they report do not take into account the fact that some minorities and because of the general criteria among which the number of members is the criterion, but also because of other characteristics of the minority concerned, need a greater share of the resources allocated. Namely, some national minorities who have more members of free professions, more educated people, more members who have experience in the work of state and other institutions, who are more experienced in lobbying for their programmes, receive more funding even though they have fewer needs to preserve their rights. For the sake of equality of national minorities, more assistance would be needed for some minorities not only through the recognition of higher funds but also through regular education and monitoring, by monitoring the implementation of their programmes. The National Minorities Council can give clear criteria and guidelines and clearly identify which and from which programmes are more acceptable. It is also questionable whether the state budget should finance a religious programme or a political programme of some national minority when the state is already co-financed by religious communities and when members of national minorities can choose which foreigners they wish to belong to and advocate their political beliefs. In conclusion, I would say that the recommendations of the State Audit Office should be considered responsibly taking into account all factors, starting with the legislative system, state institutions, National Minorities Councils, Councils and members of national minorities participating in the preservation of the ethnic, cultural and linguistic identity of national minorities and their contribution to the cultural, social and economic development of the Republic of Croatia and their integration into Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2763	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Club, the next one will be taken by the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2764	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the State Audit Office. I will, on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers, tell our vision of this report. So, I'm not going to politicize on this subject, but I'm going to talk about exact things, about what's for 2013. The Council presented in its report on the work on the spending of funds and on how the State Audit assessed it. If I were to replicate some people who initially wanted to make an impression here on the position of national minorities and whether national minorities have certain rights, and whether they have legitimacy here in the House, I would say that I received 11,000 preferential votes. I think it is sufficient legitimacy to have the right after three terms here in the Parliament and to give some quality assessment of the position of minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The revision is something that, apart from being established by law, is a very necessary thing especially in situations like this. Members of the national minorities have recently been under great attention, under a large glass of several elements, especially to members of national minorities, spending state money. That's why I think it's very good that the review came in with a report like this. The truth is he refers to the period of financing in 2013, almost 2.5 years ago. The audit report is very quality, thorough and well-intentioned. In 2015 and 2014, on the Council for National Minorities, we interpreted it and based on the suggestions read by my colleague Shuker, not to read them myself, and they brought the revisions, the Council brought new measures, new criteria for the distribution of funds, strengthened the control of the spending of these funds, and then from what I will now in a couple of cartoons try to say how the Council works, we have a situation that we will probably have a significant, significant, if not 100% better report. Introductoryly, to say the minorities spend 42 million, so we came to 37 million kuna in 2013, probably 2016 will be significantly less funds. This seems to be a lot of money, it's about the needs of 22 minority associations, the partnership is about being realistic I'll tell some agencies in the Republic of Croatia on their team, on educating their employees, on official travel spending more money per year than they spend on national minority associations at the national level in the Republic of Croatia. And let's face it, let's say. And is that, are these costs and orderly sizes that are so critical of the Republic of Croatia's budget and are these the means that we as a democratically polite society with European assets and EU members should bid? If you think we should end these 37 million kunas and there will be peace and there will be no problem with the funding of national minorities' associations. The council normally works in a way that was formed by the government as a government body. It has a very serious composition. 7 are members of national minorities from the ranks of national minority councils, 5 are members of national minorities from the ranks of prominent, scientific, professional and religious workers, and of course there are representatives of national minorities. So in 2013 the Council numbered 19 members and had one president and two vice presidents. And they're controlled by the government, exclusively by the government. That council works under the government program, so it doesn't work on its own program. As regards the allocation of funds methodologically to tell you both for the sake of the public and for you who do not know how to share funds in the Council, the Council shall, within 10 months of the previous year, make a public call to NGOs and institutions and define general and specific criteria therein. The main thing is the general and specific criteria that the Government is verifying. So the criteria for sharing money with associations were verified by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is called a commission that collects these offers and solves the projects and offers received and then proposes them to the Council. In 2013, 1297 proposed programmes were proposed by 120 associations. According to the criteria, the Council approved 972 of these 325 programmes for newly registered associations. I point out this because the media speculates that they always receive the same funds. No, they get quality programs in competition between 1,300 such programs. Here it is very correct and transparently shown for which programmes are shared, so we see that certain minorities prefer cultural amateurism such as Czechs, Hungarians prefer cultural manifestations, Serbian publishing and cultural amateurism etc. etc. And whoever wants to get into the metrics of this problem can clearly see what's being financed. Among other things, the Council has also funded a book by our current Minister, Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic, which is nothing controversial, even very desirable. Also very transparent is the cost of funds and no secrets, the most funds in 2013 were received by members of the Serbian community 10 million kuna for their 176 programmes, followed by Talija's 8 million for 18 programmes, followed by Hungarians 4.5 million for 186 programmes, followed by Czechs 3.5 million, Bosniaks 2 million, etc. And there's no secret and there shouldn't be secrets. Public money is shared and spent transparently, and we don't think there's a particular policy to be politicized about. The Council went on the ground, and the field reconnaissance worked on the method of funding certain associations, he noticed the irregularities she saw and the audit, and they learned that because of the lack of quality personnel, because some spent over 20% of what was mentioned here for directorial expenses, some had reports under incompleteness, the Council pointed to this and within 14 days and the errors were removed according to the Council's report. It is true that 17 or 18 million kunas were spent on printing, but here we have to say that this is 54 printing, not one, 54 printing, means daily, weekly, children's sheets, monthly notes, two months old, and how many minorities had their own plans and needs. In cultural amateurism 15 million kunas were spent, of course when these are the only basis for minority funding. So for publishing, or cultural amateurism. In 2013, irregularities in terms of payment of irregular fees were observed but were corrected and not at the request of the audit, but according to the decision of the Council. And it is said that those who do not make such technical, financial mistakes in the next period will not get money. Finally, it is very important to know about neutral assets, associations, are returning to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. One who doesn't do it a year can't run for any project. It is a methodology to approve funds for the financing of associations in the Council and how this mechanism works. Whoever suspects this doubts the work of the Council as a government institution. And now something about an audit. At the beginning, I said that the revision is desirable, for minorities it is very useful. The audit has done its job quite correctly. In addition to those technical disadvantages, in 2013, it pointed to one fundamental disadvantage, which is essentially that the funds were distributed not on principle, that they were not divided by the principle of equality or by the number of members of national minorities. We also solved this dilemma on the board because we pointed out that according to the criteria, the Council does not share funds by the number of members of national minorities but by the first of the number of members of associations, the second of the quality of the programme and the third of the existing bilateral agreements between the states. We need to know that there are valid interstate contracts that we must respect before all allocations of funds. And we agreed with the representatives of the audit, so that's the fact in 2013. There are no such shortcomings in 2014 and 2015. So we removed them. It's final. When we talk about the amount of funds, I'll tell you, national, national minority associations at the level of the funds receive only 5.4% of the funds they receive from civil society associations. Therefore, this group in society receives at least the resources of all groups. The National Minority Council does not have the right to represent. It's a very important thing. The allocation criteria were approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we proposed at the Council and the government approved it, otherwise these criteria could not be applied. The Council always sent its report to the Government and sent it to the European Commission, which is also a very important thing. You do not know here that these reports are being sent to the European Commission and that the European Commission is looking into and controlling the distribution of funds to national minorities. And finally what's important to me here to say, the National Minority Council has always followed the tendencies of the budget. And whenever it is said that the budget is in the restrictive phase, that we have the need for general social spending, the Council has accepted and said we will reduce the proportional amount of funds for minorities as much as the general social spending in the budget will be reduced. And we don't see what's controversial about it. Therefore, I thank the audit for the correct report. I repeat once again, your correct reports are our green means of future funding our associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2765	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to represent Furi Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2766	Thank you very much. It seems to me, colleague Horvat, that you wanted to deal with two bribes that seem to rule this House. The first is that minorities get too much money, which reflects only the attitude some have towards national minorities and not the fact that each member of minorities in Croatia according to the funding provided by the Croatian state has 10 kuna per year. It means that there's too much funding involved. Or all associations together, including associations that control various parties, and including the HDZ that seems to be criticising us here, the whole funding is such that the minority is 5%, the minority association is 5%. So not that there's too much money, but too little money is given to national minorities. If my minority, the Italian minority were living off that money, they'd have stopped living long ago, I'm telling you responsibly. The other thing, negative reports, this isn't at all... Revision, this is an excellent test of efficiency, excellently done and commended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They said national minority associations are not fully effective. What is fully effective in this country? What? Are the parties fully effective? Does this Parliament spend money on what there is or for fascism and anti-fascism and waste taxpayers' money on non-essential topics. What is full efficiency and some of you, including forgive me, who, I'm not polymerizing because I can't, say it's a negative report? It's not negative, it's, it's said that minorities, minority associations, are not as effective as anything in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2767	Thank you very much. He's going to answer, because I don't want to pollemize with my colleague even though he tried to pollemize with me, I'm not going to answer him. But the facts speak for themselves. But, of course, Mile Horvat's distinguished representative will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2768	Thank you, Mr. President, so we're polymizing my colleague Furio and I, or we're going to be pliming now. Therefore, the problem has been a general relationship recently with national minorities. So, as soon as it comes to national minorities then and the way funding is under suspicion, the amount of money is under suspicion and everything is under suspicion and everything wants to devalue itself. Now after 20 years, when we have achieved very high European standards on the protection of national minorities on paper. Very high European standards on which we can envy many older democracies, but on paper. I repeat, let's combine how much the agencies spend on their business-related stuff. So you'll come up with the fact that one official travel agency spends 30 million kunas a year to educate its employees, and you bid 20, the life of 22 minorities, or the association of those 22 minorities with 30 million kunas as much as they spend one or two agencies together, and you never talked about it one word. Very incorrect. Last term, we talked all the time about the problems of the Serb community of the return population. 30 million costs the electricity of 25 villages. We can't do that, and HEP 28 spends on his VIP team. What's this about? It's about twisted arches, the criteria you currently have for national status that are not good. Let's leave a colleague of mine. I won't pollemize with you because you missed the topic. The church isn't a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2769	Thank you very much. Time's up. The next will be replicated by distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2770	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My relationship with national minorities in the Croatian Parliament is best known by you, I hope you will agree. You said you'd only talk about exact things, so I'll stick to the exact facts. 37 million kuna whether it's a large amount or small is a relative term. If we look at it from the point of view of comparison with some agencies that waste money needlessly, then that's what it is, I can say, and I accept a very miserable amount. If we look at the way the state budget is spent and how the money of the state budget should be spent, then it is quite a large amount. You said it was good, you said it was great. Teachful, I agree, but the find is ugly. It's an exact fact that I'm not repeating everything that's been determined. Money must not be spent irrationally by agencies or by associations of national minorities. It is unacceptable to finance a remittent from the state budget. This is unacceptable, but it is acceptable to finance media or news releases of NGOs but not remittent. It's unacceptable to pay off copyright fees that can't be. It is unacceptable for material costs to be spent more than is permitted. I know that the 2013 report, I know that the Council has already accepted new criteria, that the report will be much better in 2014, but I hope you'll agree that if it is not necessary to ask for a refund from all NGOs who have not purposely spent money or received more money, spent more money on material costs, directing than they were allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2771	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2772	Dear colleague Maric, I fully support what you have said, I understand your good intentions and suggestions and I say in the report it says that the basic principle was that neutral funds return. The one who doesn't come back for a year doesn't get the money, one thing. The second thing, here, the auditor found that there were certain irregularities in the calculation of the material costs of 20%, and then the copyright fees. But I'll tell you, if one association gets 7,000 kunas and spends a thousand and a half on fee, it's a formal and accounting thing they can't do, but for God's sakes in the budget, we see positions where someone spends 100 thousand kunas, a million kunas, and we don't make such a panic and such a problem and as many objections as we make about it, if there's an association out there where there's not even a real accounting service to instruct them to miss this thing. So, what is the essence of the revision has done a good job, suggested irregularities that we did not see as members of the Council or the Council itself, and I claim that this irregularity was removed in 2014 and 2015 in business. True, many associations are angry that they do not receive funds. Probably after this debate, they'll understand why they didn't get the funds. Well, it's because they acted the way you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2773	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2774	Thank you very much, dear President of the Parliament, colleague Horvat. You have been one of our associates in Osijek-Baranja County for years and so I am one of those who advocates the rights of all national minorities both those represented in the Croatian Parliament and those who are not but are likely to be in another. I would not dare say that the funds received by the Council are large or small, that I leave it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who, in each term, assesses how much it is to be given and the best representatives of the authorities at that time know why they give it. I wouldn't insult anyone. Some of our colleagues this morning, you said in your debate, wanted to introduce themselves to the Croatian public so they misrepresented themselves but I will leave it for my individual debate so that I do not harm the Rules of Procedure. As regards the situation today, 2013 is this report and we are in 2016, if I were to tell you honestly what I think in 2016 about 2013 I wouldn't know, and what I'm going to think about 2018 on the 2015 Report. So in the Croatian Parliament, if we are already late to put the points 2013, 2014 and 2015 into one, we should see if the Council and associations have made progress compared to 2013 to 2016, they probably have. This finding of the State Audit is not to be beaten with empty straw and who better to introduce themselves or not than to spend the state money transparently on the purposes that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to give to national minorities under all our obligations. And that's what we need to discuss today. How to improve the situation, whether it is enough or not, where all national minorities are both representatives of the ruling people. I don't want to insult anyone. Today, we had a debate where someone is bumming fire just because we think differently than a colleague who is a representative in our Parliament thinks. When that changes it won't be a problem money, it won't be a problem anything. And when the level of rights of national minorities of Croatian peoples in neighbouring countries is at least the same as ours, then we will be advanced European democracy as well as our neighbours to whom we want help to join the EU as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2775	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2776	Thank you. I sign a lot of what you said. The amount of funds is a variable matter and a matter in one part of the government's policy how much funding for national minority programmes will separate. We never heard from the Council that the government was criticised for reducing funds, and de facto when they looked at each other and competed back 10 years, they just shrunk. So definitely the Council and members of the national minorities have always said so much there and so much can and we haven't been making a problem about it. We, as one colleague said, should watch what is happening in our environment, in our neighborhood, what is the position of fellow members of national minorities in the countries of the environment but let us not bind our position to reciprocal values and reciprocal positions. That's not a good policy. We have a Republic of Croatia with a programme of the Republic of Croatia with all the documents adopted in this House and we advocate as members of national minorities in this country for the improvement and quality of these documents. Of course, we would love it if members of the Croatian people in the environment had a better position and a better quality. But it's also a matter of discussion because it's not a black-and-white thing. In some things, they have a better position, a better solution to some things, and in some things we've worked it out better. So it's never a black and white world, it's a matter of discussion, and most of it is subject, of course, to certain political manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2777	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2778	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Horvat, you say that it is transparent and that everything in this law, namely the criteria of general and specific criteria for the allocation of funds and the selection of the programme, clearly speak of how the Council for National Minorities should be handled and the distribution of these 37 million kunas. Whether they are too small or too large, I would compare 22 national minorities to, say, the Association of HVIDRA, which in the past year received a million and 700 with 20 county and 1 city, the City of Zagreb, 21 associations with 35,000 members. So now evaluate how much that is, how little it is. All other associations in total at national level are supported by the state budget whether from the assets of Luttria or something with some 12 million kunas. All the others, 40 state associations. I would not have too much fun with this review finding but the revision has also found and made recommendations that no clear criteria have been applied, that the right criteria for the selection of the programme have not been respected, that the justification of the funds is also not transparent and that the funds have not been spent, it is incomprehensible through the documentation that has been provided for which the funds have been spent. This is also the problem with the Council but also those associations which have not provided transparent documents on the spending of funds in the following year do not have the right to funds. That's what the law says. We'd be challenged right now. But here you probably have understanding, there is a need for national minorities to support themselves, to stimulate themselves, to work together on cultural and universal inclusion in the social and cultural life of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe you can't have any objections to these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2779	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2780	I understand and fully understand the group you represent and we support, if the government has such a policy to increase your resources we will vote in this House and no one will ask whether it is opportunized or not. But you can't talk about the criteria on which, how the funds were distributed and say the funds weren't shared by criteria. The criteria are very clear, even very large. I will let you read both general and special, you should learn into them, they are even complicated and they are not that simple for you, you to me but have their standards, standards adapted to EU standards in one piece. And the assessment is that there were errors, small peas in the administration of expenses. I also said and I stand behind that association that did not make proper use of the funds can no longer appear in the competition and be sure that it no longer won in 2014, or in 2015. Funds if they have shown irregularities in this type of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2781	Thank you. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2782	Thank you very much, Mr. President. National minorities are golden to every society and should be held as a drop in the palm of their hands. However, in your report as a representative now that you have presented the audit report you have said at one point recognising the situation in which society is found to have no means of presentation. Because I come from a region where a national minority lives, i.e. Right out of town, it might be much better if you went out on the field, which is what I told your colleague Pupovac so you could see how these people live with us and most people live in co-existence. So let's say in Sinj, you have an Orthodox cemetery or St. Peter's cemetery that has no access path, and so when it's buried they don't have a decent burial of national people, it means above the level of humanity. You are familiar with this, you have your representatives in the area of your community of the Serbian National Council. We've pointed out that, you're funding yourself from these funds, so it would be a much more logical requirement for you to be denied those funds in one piece if the state is in crisis with local self-government, regional self-government, and to solve this shameful problem that in the 21st century, no access to a cemetery where people dig, bury. That they don't have a decent funeral. So think about it a little bit, because it's hard times, mostly people who live, maybe you haven't been there yet, but come and see how people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2783	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2784	Dear colleague Bulj, I understand your concern for this local cemetery but this is a topic that is not related to the financing of associations of national minorities, nor to financing on the basis of the Council. This is a topic for regional self-government, for regional development. We've got a new minister now, right? I believe you're gonna make it to that new minister's place to get about a hundred thousand kunas to arrange the road to the cemetery. And besides, I think it's a local self-government obligation. The city of Sinj if he didn't do it it's a disgrace to the city of Sinj because he's in the setting up of a cemetery, right? It couldn't possibly be financed from these funds because then here, some colleagues who attacked us just had reason to attack us, to use funding from local infrastructure development organizations. I think we've got a little bit of a mix-up here, but I'm seeing it as a good intention and we're probably gonna get to Sinj one day because we can't get anywhere, but we're a big, big part of the country when it's necessary. Here's where we'll probably end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2785	And the last replica of your exposure is that of colleagues Ivan Šipic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2786	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a part of the replica relating to this part that my colleague Bulj mentioned, except I wouldn't go that way, I would say that when we ask and how you said right to the team I would just say that isn't the work of associations and programs that bring the rights of presentation and representation of this whole spending of these funds. So most often, most often, it's not when the national team says it's about eating and drinking, and basically the work of associations and this work of national minorities and what they represent is basically a real representation, and so are you yourself who represent that part. Often in your presentation you mentioned agencies, not the subject of the agency, nor the agencies are the subject. Surely when agencies and some of them will surely come through reports and debates in the Assembly about the work, then we will be able to see how they spent. So it's not nice to hear, compare how much they spend. That's how you try to defend your report with not so great arguments. I would also say that the audit has done a very good job in the first place by giving you and all the associations that come from, so to minority associations 22, as you yourself have said 9 recommendations to the advice on how to remove these shortcomings. Of course we are in 2016 and it is very little ungrateful to talk about what was done in 2013. Since we are about to get a report for 2014 and 2015 in the coming days, we hope that this will be of much more quality, and it is very unfortunate to say, I must say to my colleagues that for the end of the day, therefore, the share of the effectiveness of the state has been mentioned by you as a supporter of the last government you could have asked these questions before. Here, don't take it too personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2787	Thank you, colleague Šipic. You don't pollomize with your colleague, Radin, and I didn't even polarize with him even though he was saying some things that didn't stand, but he's going to respond to dear Horvat's esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2788	Thank you, dear colleague. So I was talking about the category of financial representation, so that money spent past the programme, and that's been approved by 20% of these amounts, the Council as an institution has no such costs. Associations have, Council doesn't. That's what I wanted to apostrophe what I think is very good. And, of course, through the work of associations and programmes, the cultural heritage of a particular minority is presented and the total cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia. And of course that's the whole team. And the team is something the Council simply doesn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2789	Thank you. We are now going to the next Club of Representatives and this is SDP's Club of Representatives, so on their behalf he will speak to the distinguished representative Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2790	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the State Audit Office, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm going to start my argument with one finding that I don't feel like a flossule but as a truth, which is that minorities are our wealth. We also recognized this in the original provisions of our Constitution where our minorities and they are listed here, provided, or guaranteed, all the rights arising from the United Nations Declaration, meaning cultural and any other autonomy given to minorities. As my colleague Radin said before, we are here discussing the report on the progress of the funding, so efficiency rather than reviewing whether minorities should be financed or not. We as a serious state, an orderly state, need to finance our minorities and so on, and we need to stay and here we can discuss the effectiveness of this funding what I will do. But before I go on the subject itself, I would look back on just one thing, when we talk about the financing of our minorities, it is often referred to indiscretion in some other countries. I would only draw your attention to one example I am personally familiar with, which is the financing of the Croatian national minority in Hungary. In Hungary, what the Croatian alliance in Hungary, what Croatian state self-government and other Croatian institutions in Hungary are doing is amazing. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to go see it. The Croatian National Theatre, only outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, is that in Pechuh. Our schools, Croatian schools, children attending can really make us proud to speak Croatian better, how they know Croatian history more often than Croatians themselves, how they know our culture better. They can often embarrass us. And what it is for the discussion of colleagues and colleagues is the fact that they do so with anything or no funding from the Republic of Croatia. So it's all funded by Hungary. That's what we need to talk about if we're talking about the reciprocity of the funding of our national minorities. But to get back on the subject, so we see the revision as a correction, the recommendations that have been made in order to improve efficiency and then the transparency of spending public money because here we are just talking about public money. And here I agree with all the colleagues who mentioned it before me and I believe there is no one about it two that when we talk about spending public money, the public has the right to know how to spend, what and why. It has been pointed to many problems, so this revision brought them to the light that also prompted the debate that a fellow rapporteur on behalf of the Committee Radin said about many and other topics related to the problem of national minorities, their funding and their activities in the Republic of Croatia. The criteria are what is always important, the criteria are also prescribed and we can now discuss whether this is the number of national minorities, whether it is the quality of the programme. If we go to both, both actually solutions have their advantages and less, if we go to the very number of minorities that might put some minorities in a subordinate position. However, when we talk about the problem of national minorities, we must bear in mind both the problems and the specificities of this area, which are above all, and that is, on several occasions, highlighted in the debate are different technical shortcomings. First of all, when we talk about the National Minorities Council and its human resources sub-capacitation in order to monitor financing even more effectively in this case, the Association of National Minorities. Then the associations themselves, some are more recent, some have more members, less, more or less experience with the availability of public money and, of course, this affects both the efficiency and the submission of their reports. Different national minorities face different problems. So there are different specificities related to a particular national minority. Generally speaking, some members of national minorities are better educated, some are worse, this is already mentioned in the debate. Some national minorities have a longer tradition of organisation in the Republic of Croatia, they are better organised, connected, some are weaker, etc., etc. Some have more roof associations, some have one roof association. For example, as far as I know, the Italian minority has one roof association, Hungary has two etc., etc. So there are different specificities that should certainly be taken into account. In particular, it is necessary to underline the Roma National Minority as already mentioned in the report, which is in the most defined position if we are to discuss these technical shortcomings, or technical conditions, since members and the Roma national minorities are again generally saying less educated, less organised and more connected than other national minorities. Of course, this does not mean that we should deny the Roma money, but rather that means that we should work with them more. This is also fellow Kajtazi as a representative of the Roma national minority here in the Croatian Parliament and others, he knows very well. I am very pleased that Croatia also participated in the decade of Roma inclusion, and I think that one of the ways in which Roma should certainly include this one, which is certainly education and working with associations and individuals so that they can write programmes more efficiently, apply for public funds and then use them for the benefit of their national communities, or national minority communities, but I would also say their communities in which they live, local communities in general. So the Council for National Minorities accepted all the recommendations, introduced a newspaper, and fellow Horvat talked about it, so I wouldn't particularly stick to it. We will, of course, follow the work of the Council for National Minorities, or efficiency in the award of money, and according to the following reports that will come to us on the agenda appreciate how good these changes were, or how well they were carried out, and only then to judge. So the advice is, like I said, accepted all the recommendations. Unfortunately, he remains humanely sub-capaciated, but I must particularly underline the Council's willingness to cooperate. Therefore, they were also at the debate on the Committee on National Minorities and were very open to all suggestions and are all willing to take into account and adapt as much as possible in accordance with their capabilities and implement the work. And of course education is a very important element. National Minorities Council colleagues also said that on several occasions and tried to involve as many associations as possible, educate. There is, of course, responsibility for the alliances of certain national minorities, but also for all those involved in this process in order to spend taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible and as transparently as possible. So the revision is corrective, the recommendations are well-intentioned and I dare say welcome even to the point. We will follow further implementation, implementation of these recommendations and through the Committee on National Minorities who often discuss this through plenary debate in this distinguished House. And in the end, I can say that the SDP Representatives' Club will give support to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2791	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2792	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a little correction from a colleague from the SDP to this young colleague of ours. The first Croats in Hungary are sitting in parliaments, not having the right to vote as in Croatia. Also, just to correct some things and opinions about human heads and Croatian voters to explain things like this. In countries with more national minorities than Croatia, there is no such parliamentary system for minorities. It is Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Great Britain, etc. In all these countries, when it comes to parliamentary elections, minority members vote as Austrians, French, Hungarians etc. Looks to me like we're worried we should take care of minorities, I agree with that and what about 3 million Croats out there who don't even have the right to vote, have a formal where they come here I have to say as a member of the diaspora representative of 16 billion kunas of pure profit that are now being taxed twice for the pensions that come here. What about these people outside and 200 companies you have Croatian, Croatian owners outside on the global stock market. Where is this economic diplomacy? What were you doing about it? Are these people sitting here like us being political Croats or are they representing their minorities in their countries? That's what we need to resolve. It seems to me to me that the young SDP gentleman that you care about most of the other minorities except your minority, which is Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2793	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2794	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, dear old colleague, if you're telling me I'm young, you're older than me, so I'll tell you a respected old colleague, I know very well how organized Croats are in Hungary, what are their problems, how they are represented in Parliament. Believe me, I know it from experience because I'm very often there. These are wonderful people, these are people I say who have done a lot with Hungarian money, not Croatian money. That's what we need to discuss. But why should we always follow bad examples? You say certain countries in Europe have resolved this one way or another, or have no representatives of national minorities. Well, I just think we should be proud, look for reciprocity and say how good this is for us. And I will correct you, so it is possible to elect a representative in the Hungarian Parliament with the right to vote if it receives a number of votes. Our representative, unfortunately, isn't what doesn't mean he won't get it. He's a spokeswoman, he's not even a representative. But every speech in the Hungarian Parliament begins in Croatian and I am extremely proud of it. Dear fellow, your political option is now in power. You can implement a lot of what you're criticizing, and I'll wait and evaluate how well you've done or haven't. So, economic diplomacy go ahead, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2795	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, I continue on the path of my colleague Glasnović's replica. It is a bright example of the neighbouring country of Hungary, but you know that our journey to the EU was not due to relations with the Republic of Hungary and the rights of Hungary in Croatia, but our path has been primarily since the beginning of the creation of the Croatian state, a relationship to the Serb national minority in our country. And what we have mentioned is this principle of reciprocity in our neighbouring countries, this principle that we, as a member of the EU today, according to the pretenders of our neighbours who want to become this path, has lasted 10 years precisely for this reason and for other, series of others. But this is one of the basics. So when we look at that right, so equal rights are primarily meant by the neighbouring Republic of Serbia. Why? Because of the position of the Croatian Corps in Vojvodina. You've seen when we're talking about 18 million press, we're talking about cultural amateurism, 54 million kuna. There is a radio station of Croatian people that has been a tradition of advertising in Croatian national mother tongue for years. So our role today is not the same as it was a few years ago, both towards the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just remember the Dayton Agreement and how much the Dayton Pressure Agreement cost the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a bad deal for us. We've been forced to sign the Dayton Agreement and dot. So, when we discuss these problems here today, we can't be in 2013 anymore. I will personally vote for this report, I have nothing to add or take away from, which I will. I guess that's been fixed by 2016. We'll see about that. But the inevitable integration of the situation today is in the political time in which we live and mention the rights of the Croatian people in neighbouring countries. Hungary has its way from the Croatian-Hungarian settlements and beyond, and the right to have our people school there free of charge today when they leave the Republic of Croatia. It is not, it is a bright example but we are looking at the environment in the whole context of our neighbours and the geopolitical situation in which the entire Republic of Croatia is located today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2797	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree with you. So when we talk about the conditions that Croatia has stalled on its way to the EU, there is definitely this fact, but also a lot of others, from the judiciary, public administration, corruption, etc. I agree with you, and I named Hungary just as a bright example. Serbia can be cited as not such a bright example where there are even members, i.e. there were members of the Croatian people in the National Assembly of Serbia but who were elected from the majority lists, meaning votes and the majority people, etc. So there's a lot of room for work and promotion. Moreover, I find it unacceptable that the Croatian minority is systematically divided and that some Bunjevci who have their own specialities have invented themselves, but I have said it before and I will repeat it here and I consider the Bunjevci as an indigenous part of the Croatian National Corps. So, the rebels are part of the Croatian people. There are a lot of problems, I agree with you that now is the right time to open a debate with our neighbours how to solve this problem and ask for reciprocity. But it's just that we give our national minorities so much and we respect them so much that it gives us the right to make that reciprocity look for it. As far as BiH is concerned, it is the same problem, a major problem that needs to be addressed as well. However, Croats in BiH are neither diaspora nor minority but a constituent people. And now that their rights have been resolved, of course, that in our interest it should be that their rights are better resolved and that the better, so that they have a bright future in that country, that their rights are protected and that they are an equal people in BiH. I believe that much more debate will be about the fact that the debate on the future of BiH is only now seriously opening up and we will see where this debate will go. But it is our duty as a representative and as a mother country to protect our people there.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2799	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2800	Thank you, Mr. Hajdukovic, for mentioning Hungary and the situation of the government there. I also wouldn't want to talk about it for very long, I think it is extremely important that in this Chamber too, Hungary is said to invest significantly more money to cultivate culture, customs, the language of the Croatian minority than Croatia does. It may also be important to mention that a different relationship may be in Hungary towards national minorities. There the opinion prevails that they are components of culture, that they are components of a whole Hungarian society and that they have made a huge cultural contribution to the entire culture. Often, even in today’s debate, we have the impression that national minorities are something else. It's like we fell out of the sky here, like we came here. I don't know where. Well, the Hungarian national minority has lived in these areas for over 1,000 years. It really bothers me when I come across a situation where someone says a particular project that we invest then towards the Ministry of Culture, or I don't know by some other ministry, you belong to national minorities. Well, it's not us, we're a national minority, but we're part of Croatian society. The question of reciprocity should I think you should stop talking about here in this House once. It is often withdrawn, and today it has retreated. But then I ask you gentlemen now what authority I have to tell someone in Hungary who will say that the river is Hungary. And I'm also not sure that anyone in this House can answer for what if someone in Burgenland around here... says this is Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, let's stop that already!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2801	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2802	Thank you very much. I share your opinion and the opinion of your countrymen that national minorities living in Croatia are an integral part of Croatian culture. It is a small piece of mosaic that makes Croatian society. And as such, he needs to be nursed and encouraged. I think the better our national smaller ones are, the better the majority people. That's something we should definitely keep safe. I also agree with you that the funds are what they are. Unfortunately, national minorities, like all aspects of life in Croatia, were extremely affected by the crisis, the economic downturn. I'm glad things are changing now, that we have economic growth, but what I'd say is that I'm especially monitoring and doing exactly your national minority, so Hungarians in Croatia, more specifically the Union of Hungarian Associations, I think you're doing a great job and you're using the limited resources that you have. I'll just mention... Festival in Belo Manastir, Days of Culture and Economy of Hungarians in the Republic of Croatia, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You enrich your environment, you enrich Croatia, and I think that's exactly the point of this story. Hungarians have always lived in these areas, this is not Hungary but Hungarians are part of Croatia and Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2803	Thank you. We will now move to the next club of representatives, which is the club of representatives of HRID and independent representative of Shandor Juhasa, and in the name of the club will take the word from the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2804	... representatives of the State Audit, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Already some colleagues have previously said that this State Audit Report is quite systematic and well done. I agree with that and I commend the report. It detects all the controversial ones to put it that way. I don't think the amount given from the state budget is too large for minorities, especially if we take into account some of the other amounts given from the state budget. And consider that national minorities and constitutional categories. We heard some of this report were wrong about spending money. I agree it needs to be fixed. Although the rights of national minorities are constitutional values, as I have said and therefore, in the adoption of these laws, a consensus was needed, today, it is unfortunately very much revised minority rights and often used in various contexts, and that needs to be corrected. There seem to be accepted minorities and those less accepted. And unfortunately, the debate over this report also shows in part. I do not agree with the recommendation that only criteria relating to the number of members of the national minority should be followed when financial support is granted for NGOs and national minority institutions. Of course, on the one hand, these criteria should also be followed and the number taken into account. But primarily the criteria should be a programme proposed by the association and the organisational structure and as mentioned above by bilateral agreements which must not be forgotten. Recommendations should be clearly adopted in order to make the work as good as possible and, of course, tax payers' money as possible, used as best as possible. We see that each year, in fact, these budget funds are further reduced because we all carry the burden of deficits. We see from the report that some associations are more applying to programs. Let's say the most reported programs have Hungarians. Regardless of what they make up 0.3% in the total population. What is interesting is that otherwise Croatia is one of the most national homogeneous states, which means that minorities are actually very few percent. What is specific to Croatia is that they are with us and this is visible from this report, although it is the financing of minority associations mainly have their regional standoffs and they are mainly related to local and county authorities. Thus, the position of minorities differs significantly from place to place and, of course, from the party in power in those units of local self-government. Their programmes are therefore financed from local budgets and they also exercise their rights through local and county councils. How and in what way this is a particular issue and a special subject for discussion but what is important here is that it takes good and quality cooperation to avoid overlapping. We see from the report and from other open issues here that national minorities have other problems. One of them that hasn't been mentioned is employment. Application of programmes can partially solve this problem, but the state budget we know is not the only way to finance with what I have already mentioned. The funds withdrawn from the EU funds are also very small, they are small, and what is important to say is that the education of these people who lead these associations of national minorities is needed so that they can withdraw larger funds and thus get an additional impasse, an additional sub-storage for work, because they would have larger financial resources and less need to get out of the budget. We see today, therefore, that in world and European proportions, unfortunately, in the midst of the migrant crisis, there has also been an increase in intolerance towards certain cultures to say, or to populations, which unfortunately reflects the attitude towards minorities. The same is true in Croatia, and it is further strengthened by the change of government and by these political bickerings. We can often hear accusations against national minorities and countries whose nationality they belong to. I think it's in such a way that it's absolutely pointless to talk because the members of the national minorities are integrated, they're a constitutional category. In most cases, they are mostly born and raised here and so they cannot and must not bear the burden of their countries or any other inappropriate political treatment. Here's yesterday's case in Vukovar, tomorrow could be another case, with some other actors and I think there's a lot of political responsibility. Political elites here in Zagreb are doing their own procedures to say so, and then it is very reflected in all areas where the situation is already sensitive, especially in Eastern Slavonia. From what I hear, this report has been used in 2014 and 2015 to correct those errors recorded in this 2013 report in the business of associations, and that is something that makes me happy, that is something positive, and I think that is the purpose of this report. What I would like to stress further that if minority associations were to further educate their employees, find some way to educate them for accounting, and to attract funds from EU funds, then minority associations could be more proactive in seeking funds and, of course, what is necessary to regularly give reports to the Council what they are doing, that they are purposely spending money, and on the other hand, we as parliamentary representatives and states generally need to ensure their smooth work, we need to prevent discrimination and what may be the most important for us here is that we should stop using minorities for daily political purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2805	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the honourable representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2806	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues on behalf of the National Minorities Club can say that we will accept this report because we believe that it realistically shows the state that it was in 2013 with all the negativity and positive things in it. And I wanted to say more about it, but this debate has asked me to look back on other things. So, let me express one of these to my personal, personal opinion. It seems to me that the debate in the Croatian society over Ustasha and Partisans, which is like this and which ends up looking at some unsettled result, is moving towards a debate on the issue of national minorities. And I don't think that's good, and I don't think that national minorities have to be exactly slaves to the fighting that are currently in Croatian society. We clearly expressed our opinion last year with that declaration we spoke of. Another thing I would like to warn is that national minorities other than the Serb national minority may be more or less regionally concentrated on the territory of Croatia and that they have been living there for a very long time, that they have their schools, that they have their own institutions, that they have their own homes of culture and that there may be a different situation in these areas than in the city of Zagreb or what is in Rijeka or Split. This report, which we received on the benches, is, in accordance with Article 37. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities regularly every year allows the general public to gain insight in the way the funds are spent. The report shows the specificities of the spending of the programme and associations and institutions, and I think that this satisfies the public's interest in spending effectively from the state budget, so no matter what opinion we have on it. I will say that for me this report is transparent, it shows that the funds for achieving the cultural economy of national minorities are allocated on the basis of the criteria for the award of financial support and programmes of NGOs and institutions, that these criteria have been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that these funds are spent as audit and written, I repeat with all the good and all the bad. A colleague, Horvat, spoke about how and how these programs are being adopted, there is a Council for National Minorities. The National Minorities Council shall hold tenders each year and the applications received shall be reviewed by the Commission and then a decision shall be taken on the amount of the funds. I have to mention that when we talk about these 35 million kunas, then those assets are being broken down into a whole series of associations. And there are some associations that get five thousand kunas, someone gets seven thousand kunas, nets get 90 thousand kuna. And all these problems listed in the review report are more or less related to those associations that receive very little funding. Well then it's easy to say that some association that gets 5,000 kunas or 7 thousand kunas spends on... More than 20% of the total funds, or out of those 7 thousand kunas, are written, I don't know, one contract of work or an agreement of the author's whether it's so part-time, to the head of the department that runs it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking you who's running one KUD, one folklore section all year long, and it allows normal functioning for 7 thousand kunas. We can say that it is wrong, we can say that he has violated the criteria that are clear but then we can also close that CUD and we can close that association and say thank you nicely in this area, in that part of the Republic of Croatia, that national minority will not exercise its rights. From this report it is visible, visiblely clear that it is possible to trace the consumption of all funds, each June. I know from personal experience that every year twice a year, you watch out twice a year for spending reports and these reports turn into photocopying all documents. I've been president of one association for years, so when we bring in a report from our 46 organizations, it'll be full of Shkoda's trunk. Because there's so much paper and paper, and there's so many bills and bills that we bring back and in that pile of paper, it seems to me, three years ago, five thousand sheets of paper, it's certain there's going to be a lot of things that won't fit maybe the way it's supposed to be and how it's prescribed. But that's why there's a revision that pointed to these problems. We point to the problems of our associations, there is a advice that points to these problems and we try to resolve them. And for this reason, again, I can only commend the role of the Council and the role of the revision that gave clear guidance on how and how it should be resolved. The funds are allocated to these 35 million associations through 1300 programmes. About 80 associations of national minorities are currently being funded. But they're not associations like associations. In that literal sense of the word. There's a whole series of roof associations. So some associations have 46 and 50 of their own associations and cover the area from the Adriatic Sea all the way to the Danube. And then they count themselves as one association. This is about 1364 adopted programs and where's what hasn't been adopted? Where is what has not gone beyond the strict criteria and criteria of the Council for National Minorities and those programme regulations, is such content? And only software content is information and publishing. Word is, there's always a problem with one daily list, one week. My people, the Council is currently issuing 56 press releases. Not the Council, but associations of national minorities and are financed through the Council. Of those 56, we're apostrophe of one. At present, 8 children’s magazines are published that are extremely valuable and serve and are used by teachers of the language of national minorities in almost all schools. Let's talk about these things a little bit. There are cultural manifestations. We have associations that organize more than 30 events at the state level. The Hungarian association organised over 300 events with all its branches last year. So over 300 settlements in the Republic of Croatia have shown national minorities what they have not only danced, not only cooked, not only ate and drank, but contributed to the culture of the area in which they live. And I think it's unimaginable to imagine Istria without the Italian national minority and all those values they gave there. And I think it is unimaginable to imagine Baranja without the Hungarian national minority. And it's not a national minority now, we have settlements where we live majority, we have settlements where almost 90% of the population make up members of these national minorities. And if we are talking about social life, about cultural life, about the needs of this population, we are not talking about the needs or life of the appearance of a settlement of a national minority rather than a population, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay an orderly tax here, taxes and everything else that needs to be paid. And they rightly expect it to come back to them in a certain way. The big deal is that national minorities live like the kidney in the lore, that we have money, we eat, we drink, we dance and we live on the back of this people. Mile Horvat mentioned that it is 5% of the total funds received by associations. He mentioned that it is about 10 kuna per year per head of members of national minorities, and we know what the proportion of members of national minorities is compared to the total population. Data one. I've been asked to list the resources of the state budget for NGOs as they moved. 2006. 29, 2007. 35, 2008. In 41, 2009, 43 million kunas received national minorities. In 2011, 41 million, last year 33, and then somehow we got another 2 million, so 35. If we observe that the HDZ government gave us, since you say more or less that we got 41 million kunas, my SDP's government gave us 35 million kunas and then I don't think there's a story that we support and that we supported the left option, that we were very happy and satisfied, that they bought us and that we were thinking for the money or for the money as we think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2807	Thank you. Your statement caused two replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2808	Oh, here I am, in the name of tolerance and dialogue, giving up dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2809	Then the next one will be the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2810	Thank you very much. Comrade Juhas, your rather emotional debate justifiably given the feeling which unfortunately tries to impose that this is a cost, that it is unnecessary to give so much money, that it is too much money. On the contrary, I think more work of national minorities should be supported. And when you look at almost 1,000 programs that they have given, in which areas are the most active and of cultural manifestations, cultural amateurism is exactly what you need to do and what should be further encouraged in the future. What's my possible grudge is that there are no more suggestions. So, when I see that, of all of the total proposals received, 75% is approved, it tells me that there is room for further improvement, information at local level, and that people make as many quality suggestions as possible. So when you still have 75% accepted, it means that there may still be a possibility that it might even expand a little bit, and that in some ways it might be necessary to develop the capacities of the national council so that there may not be a narrow throat for projects that national minorities are proposing. So as you said, I don't think that we should cut those funds, that we should improve it as much as possible, we might need to strengthen the professional service of the National Council because it's obviously not easy to control these 1,000 projects. And we all know what it looks like at a local level in various different associations, how accounts are collected that sometimes it's not the simplest and collect and sort of audit work to make it better in the future. But I'd like to talk more about the quality of these projects. We're talking about whether 38, 35, 41 are two accounts more or less delivered, and we want to see what the quality of the projects is and how visible is that, and are we satisfied with that? So that's what this House should be much more interested in than whether two accounts are more or less submitted to the audit. Although, of course, I support it by all the highest audit standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2811	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative, Shandor Juhas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2812	Thank you very much. Well, my argument wasn't emotional, it was fact. Now you're like you said you're new here, so you'll get used to it. I usually discuss it that way. As far as the quality of the programme is concerned, I absolutely agree that we should talk more about it and perhaps we should pay attention to it. But what you said that 75% of the program goes through is exactly about the fact that the Council for National Minorities, that associations work well and that they adhere to everything that we are audited and that certain institutions that oversee our work suggest. We have an association where the IRS was in, so she didn't find anything. We've got an association where there's been a budget checkup, so they've made sure what needs to be done. Associations of national minorities are under increased and thanks to the good work of the audit and thanks to the good work of the Tax Administration and all those who have controlled us, we are working towards some better goal of making all of this even more transparent, but we must respect the facts that I said that if someone gets 5000 kuna or gets 7,000 kuna that it is very difficult to fit into these existing criteria, that it is very difficult to meet everything that is asked of him or will come to an end of these associations. What I'm not suggesting is that we don't have to stick to everything that the audit has given and what these others are giving.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2813	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the development of the democracy of every society is actually seen in how much the rights of minorities enjoy in this society and that is undeniable. Are our minorities, or are our minorities financed enough? Certainly not, but neither are our schools, hospitals, colleges. In fact, we're all sharing the same fate at this point. I believe and hope our national minorities are aware of that, too. I'd like to add one more thing. No one can be above or outside the law. The review bill is clear, it's the same for everyone. So both the smallest association and the most complex institution must pass the same audit laws. And I'd like to be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2815	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Shandor Juhas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2816	So I absolutely agree with you that the position of national minorities is in a certain way talking about the democracy of a particular society. That's absolutely correct. National minorities have as many rights as they are given, and that's when it comes to whether it's a democratic society or not. If we get our rights that are prescribed and we stick to it for sure, we will be a democratic society. And thanks to this Croatia has also come to where it is now, in the European Union, thanks to the support of the rights of national minorities, Croatia enjoys its reputation in Europe, Croatia has been recognised as one country that takes care of and takes care of its minorities. Well, thanks to that concern and that democracy, I'm here too. There are some countries that aren't democratic, so their minorities may not have as many rights as we have here, but then it's about these countries, then it's about what the state of democracy is there. How many there were willing to accept their minority, how many, and what rights did they give to their minority? And that's why we can't talk and potentiate constant reciprocity. Let's go as it is there so it'll be with us. I said earlier I can't be responsible for what some fool in Burgenland will say that's Croatia. And I also cannot be responsible for it if some fool in Mohać says that Rijeka is not me Hungary or that Dubrovnik is an integral part of the Hungarian crown.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2817	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next club of MPs, and that's the club of representatives of the HNS. Dear Representative Veljko Kajtazi, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2818	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the State Audit, respected colleagues and colleagues. The report on the financial audit of the effectiveness and funding of NGOs programmes and national minority institutions by the National Minority Council is before us. One of the special government offices dealing with the financing of NGOs and national minority institutions. The state audit has highlighted a lot of criticism towards the Council for National Minorities, mostly justified. However, it should be pointed out that it is a deep problem that can administratively be explained in a way that everything looks much worse than it is in practice. In recent times, NGOs and independent alternative media have increased under some form, and funds that are not large represent themselves as some obstacle to the progress of society. As if the high unemployment rate and lack of economic prosperity and living standards are not our main problem, as if it were capital projects and not content that every true democratic state supports in order to enrich public space and in this case the civil sector of minority peoples who are often, the only way for minorities such as Roma to contribute to public good and show themselves mostly volunteering. I point out that the non-governmental sector has somewhat become the only one where representatives of the Roma national minority can work. Why is it so and why it is almost impossible for the Roma to find the right job is a deep problem that is not spoken of enough. Such a way of employment is supported by the so-called Public works, which are funded by the Croatian Employment Service within a few months with the minimum funds of members of the Roma national minority "employ". I am sorry that there is also very little talk about the reforms that marked the pre-election campaign. On the other hand, there has been a lot of talk about ideological conflicts, political relations and classical bickering which, especially those I represent, bring absolutely nothing. It would be better to have a quality public debate on how to reform the work of institutions designed to support national minorities in our society. The report ahead shows several shortcomings and needs to change things. The first disproportionate to funding the programmes of individual national minorities in relation to numbers is to their numbers. Some minorities thus receive disproportionately large funds at their disposal while some other numerous minorities such as Roma get much less in this ratio. Given this fact, I appeal to the Council to take into account the number of national minorities in the future and to bring the Council's financial plans in line with that fact. Since disproportionateness has arisen because some minorities have much better programmes and applications for competition and that fact should be acknowledged and taken into account. However, it cannot be an excuse not to find any other way to eventually deploy financial resources by respecting the share of individual minorities in the total population. There is a potential for us to come to a fairer distribution in a way that the resources available in the Council are shared by respecting the number of national minorities, and if they remain unused to otherwise spend on improving the position of non-organised national minorities and not writing quality programmes. I propose that this money be directed to the point of creating cultural autonomy so that, in this case, the county, cities and municipalities can have the opportunity to strengthen their minority communities, such as in the construction of social homes in Roma settlements and the complete arrangement of Roma settlements that I have initiated in my previous term. I would take this opportunity to commend the Council for national minorities who is very well aware of the situation on the ground, and the gentleman... very up-to-date and personal who follows the implementation of projects, associations and institutions of national minorities. However, there is still plenty of room for progress. Regardless of the fact, the share in the population of the Roma national minority draws far less funds than some other minorities who are not so numerous. I think that by rerouting the funds within the Council of Progress that I am looking for to a large extent and realising it, it would not require more resources than those currently available to the Council. Such an approach would reduce the present-mentioned injustice against the poorly-organised Roma minority. Furthermore, the report also points out further problems with the delivery of poor financial reports on the implementation of the programme, which is nevertheless an exception rather than a rule. Too bad the report didn't put the emphasis that this is about individual associations. On the basis of this report, it can be concluded that all associations of national minorities are in some murky jobs, i.e. they do not meet the criteria and do not provide good reports. I would like to highlight very many successful events and organizations that conduct their business neatly and send quality reports, there are good examples of the current national festival of Roma which we have recognised here in the Croatian Parliament in the past. People in associations are not always professionals especially in the Roma community. They are not persons who understand well the way quality documentation is provided. This does not in any way mean that they do not implement quality, cultural and content programmes that improve the level of organisation, their communities for which the funds are intended. It is clear to all of us that certain associations do not have the capacity and conditions that professionals would have. However, the staff of the Council can easily conclude their presence on the ground how funds are spent, and as far as I am aware, I have not had significant abuses and not regularity. The lack of funding of projects by some Roma minorities, as well as some other indicators and their weaker organisation, shows us that the advice must adapt its work over the coming period to address the imbalances that the audit warns about. The Roma community in a particularly bad situation sometimes has to get more than other minorities to do the same job again, and now we see that it gets less than other minorities what we're going to have to change. I would also like to point out that I do not agree with the idea that the Council should suspend the funding of works of the programme relating to food and drink for the participants of the events they support. Take, for example, the International Day of Remembrance of the fallen Roma during World War II holocaust at the village site Uštica near Jasenovac, where thousands of Roma from all over the Republic of Croatia come from, but also from abroad, they come there in the middle of summer in the hottest heat. And if the Council gave up funding and drinks for the participants of the event, it would be impossible to organise it. This applies to other similar events especially in places where there is no access to hospitality. I repeat, if there has been an abuse of this way of funding, this funding should be suspended completely for associations that have abused it. However, it is absurd to question the survival of a memorial such as that of Jasenovac or others. The good organisation of a national minority can mean a lot in practice. I believe that national minorities that have been working systematically for decades can, with much less financial resources, implement equal demand programmes than some other minorities, so it is necessary to enable the Roma community to take care of itself on its own. It is always important to remind that the Roma national minority does not have its own home country, so, apart from its disproportionate national level, there is no cultural support from the queen and the embassy that other minorities have as a rule. Given that the Council and other institutions generally co-finance programmes and do not support them in full because it is acceptable for other national minorities who have support and their queens, however, there is no such possibility in the Roma national minority and I would also like to consider it in the future. It is this information that the Roma National Minority does not withdraw funds from the National Minority Council as other minorities, shows that greater efforts need to be made to organise it better. It's a chronic problem in which despite all strategies and resources, we haven't had a good deal of quality in the last 700 years since Roma have lived in these areas. The responsibility here is exclusively for our national institutions because these are the only institutions towards which Roma are targeted and from which Roma expect to ensure equal initial conditions for them as well as for other citizens. The fact that for years we have very few students of Roma nationality and even fewer of those who graduate from college show that something is wrong. The National Minorities Council as an institution that directly cooperates with individuals and knows persons who stand for work, recognises ways in which individual minorities can make better progress. Bodies and offices such as the National Minority Council should be allowed a certain level of autonomy in decision-making. However, this process must certainly be systematised and regulated as much as possible. The criteria should be adapted to the situation on the ground and to the needs of communities as well as their interest in implementing the programmes. NGOs are not administrative bodies that can function as institutions. The problem that the revision has identified by respecting the above facts should certainly be supported. I want to repeat that we need to find methods that would allow equal distribution of funds to minorities according to their share in the population. And one of my proposals is the additional effort of the Council and local government to reroute funds to create a culture of autonomy to provide a prerequisite for a higher level of organisation in order to cause the disproportionateness observed by the audit to be removed. In this regard, I also support the establishment of an information system that would allow quality work to be monitored because in my work I rely heavily on their work and I do not think that this negative report gives a real picture of the situation, the organisation of national minorities and the work of the Council for National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I continue to support the advice and work of the council, but in the following report, I expect that the Roma and other minorities I represent get as much as the other recognised national minorities do. And not only financially, but in terms of results and concrete shifts. I hope that this government will have the political will and the hearing to address this quality because solving this situation is a relief to the same extent as to the state as to the community I represent. It has already become tiring to talk about population problems 17, 18 thousand people who, with little political will, can be done much, much more. Funding projects and associations is a good thing, but we need to focus as much money as possible on building and regulating Roma settlements that are legalized in the past term, on employment and education as the only and best investment in our citizens and the state. Only such a way of working is to get the Roma national minority out of the one-way street in which it has been in the last 700 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2819	Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be taken by the honourable representative Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2820	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the State Audit Office, colleagues and colleagues. In modern democracies such as the Republic of Croatia, the position and rights of national minorities are regulated at the highest level by constitutional provisions with more precise law-making and with respect and application of international law documents. In the territory of the Republic of Croatia live members of different national minorities with their ethnic, linguistic, cultural and religious characteristics that in their way enrich our country's social, cultural and economic life. It is indisputable that ethnic and multicultural diversity and a spirit of understanding of respect and tolerance contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. Under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the National Minorities Council was established as an autonomous body with the aim of making the participation of national minorities more effective in the public life of the Republic of Croatia. The Council represents the roofing body of national minorities at national level that connects the institutions and interests of national minorities and deals with the whole minority problem. The legal obligation of the Council for National Minorities is, inter alia, to allocate funds in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. To this end, the beneficiaries of the budget shall submit to the Council an annual report on the spending of funds granted to them from the state budget and on that Council shall be obliged to inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. It was therefore expected that the State Audit Office would determine whether the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities on the Reporting of the Croatian Assembly were respected. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities under which the National Minorities Council allocates funds in the state budget provides for the needs of national minorities. The users of the funds submit annual reports to the Council on the spending of funds they have received from the state budget on which the Council reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Is the practice laid down that the Council submits its report only to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in accordance with the said provision and the provision of Article 37(3) which states that at least once a year the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of this Constitutional Law and on the spending of funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. A Council for National Minorities to the Croatian Assembly, i.e. its working body, in which the exercise of the right of national minorities is held, shall submit a half-yearly report on issues in the Council's section, as well as a quarterly report on the spending of funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. Even the rope understood this provision does not fully apply, as the committee's reporting is limited to reporting once a year, only on the amount of funds allocated without an additional explanation of the programme. Questions in the Council's section are not reported, although there is a summary of the activities of the Council on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I therefore believe that this treatment is not sufficient or satisfactory and does not give the right picture of the work of the Council. There is no reason to do so, because NGOs and institutions of national minorities whose programmes are co-financed from the state budget through the Council are obliged to submit a quarterly, semi-annual and annual report on the work and implementation of the programme with a financial report according to the methodology of monitoring the implementation of the programme of NGOs and national minorities, and therefore there is no formal obstacle to the full reporting of the work of the Council. Such reporting would undoubtedly contribute to a better presentation of the work of the Council, but also to greater transparency in the allocation of budgetary resources. If the whole public had an insight into all the information on the work and activities of the Council then, together with members of the associations and institutions of national minorities, and together with us Assembly representatives, could look back on what has been achieved, and could contribute to further improving the work of the Council with their proposals and observations. In addition, the State Audit Office should pay more attention to how the provision of Article 35(3) is implemented. The constitutional law under which it is one of the powers of the Council to cooperate with the competent authorities of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and with the competent authorities in matters of interest for national minorities, and to implement the conclusions and provisions of the contract and the Agreement on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, which is a signatories of the Republic of Croatia. It should be borne in mind that so far the Republic of Croatia has signed bilateral agreements on the protection of minority rights with Montenegro, Italy, Hungary, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia, and by legal succession with Austria has taken over a state contract from 1955 that guarantees certain minority rights to the City Croats. In order to monitor the implementation of the agreed agreements and propose appropriate recommendations to the governments of the signatories, they are set up with Montenegro, Hungary, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia intergovernmental mixed committees that should be held alternately once a year, and to consider current issues of interest for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian national minorities in those countries. The question arises from this is: How is the Council's report singleing out budgets only for bilateral agreements relating to the Hungarian and Italian national minorities? Is the Council involved in implementing other agreements, and how? In fact, the Council's report does not fully show what these programmes are under bilateral agreements, based on which articles of these contracts are implemented. I believe that in my reports, the Council would have to report specifically to the Government and the Croatian Parliament, which and what kind of programmes it is, so before they were only six, two related to the Hungarian national minority of $400,000 and 4 related to the Italian national minority of a million and 710 thousand kuna. Given the importance of significant monetary amounts, it is important to provide answers to these questions. I would further refer to a number of concrete recommendations and comments from the State Audit Office. I would also like to point out firstly that it is very important to note that the minutes of the Commission on the allocation of funds to NGOs and national minorities institutions for the achievement of cultural autonomy programmes do not contain data in relation to the way in which the programmes notified are evaluated related to the application of general and specific criteria. It is not clear whether the proposed funding programmes are approved in 2013 in accordance with the rules and cannot be determined how the amount of funding from the state budget is determined. Since this commission allocated 37 million 613 thousand and 240 kuna to 80 associations that proposed 972 programmes such an audit assessment may also indicate the existence of arbitration in the allocation of State budget funds. The State Audit Office's report states that the Council controls the dedicated expenditure through field reconnaissances in 15 NGOs and the involvement of an accounting service which, along with the Council's expert service, has carried out the control of the dedicated use of 30 NGOs' funds and institutions, which is 45 associations out of 80. But what is interesting is that only 6% of the resources available to these associations, which means that the bulk of the budget spent does not cover control, i.e. that control does not cover a valuable amount of funds and a significant number of users. For this reason, I agree that control mechanisms should be strengthened which should certainly include more valuable resources and more users. It is an interesting data which provides an audit, and is related to the purpose of spending budget money in the field of information. In fact, the Republic of Croatia co-finances a total of 54 printing works, but only 1 daily paper is printed in 625 120 copies, which is 36.4% of total printed copies for which 4 million 670 thousand and 400 kuna were found. It is said that 39.1% of total fees and 244 000 422 copies have not been sold and that the printing works are distributed free of charge to members of NGOs and institutions of national minorities, natural persons in the Republic of Croatia and abroad and public institutions of the Republic of Croatia. It would be desirable for the State Audit Office's report to state the daily list, because according to the latest census, the total number of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia is about 330 thousand, so it is half as small as a minority daily. It is questionable how much the printing of this daily list in more than 600 thousand copies is rational and how much such access deprives the resources of other national minorities who have very small amounts to achieve their programmes. It is therefore extremely important to establish clear criteria for the issue of press releases of NGOs and national minority institutions, as recommended by the State Audit Office. The HDZ Club supports regular reporting by the State Audit Office on the effectiveness of funding programmes for NGOs and national minority institutions. I am convinced that the next report will confirm that there has been an improvement in their work as well as the work of the bodies that allocate budget funds and control their dedicated spending. Such reports are also particularly valuable in the work of the State Audit Office, whose recommendations I am confident can also act preventively and thus contribute to the more efficient work and activities of associations and institutions of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2821	Thank you. Your presentation caused a single replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2822	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Radic, in your presentation, you mentioned one thing that is very important, and these are presses that betray minorities in the Republic of Croatia and you said that it is in correlation with how many there are. So, the primary issue of these newspapers can also be used as a presentation of the Republic of Croatia to the outside and to these domicile countries. And all that is done in Croatia can only benefit us and should not be looked so closely at in such a way that there are 20 or 30 thousand representatives in Croatia and that such a circulation must be. This is specifically about the newspaper of the Italian national minority, I think it's a very useful thing and that should continue. Every kuna that is invested in this is paid twice as much. And what's written in the review notice that it hasn't been sold 39% I don't think it's anything dramatic about the circulation of all our daily newspapers having remittende there about 30 percent, 40 percent. So also according to this market criterion and what readers buy in Croatia and whether they have achieved their purpose shows that they have their own quality and benefit from this paper. That's the way to move on. I'd be happy if there were more of them, not if there was just that one journal. On the other hand, it is the only newspaper that is printed in Croatia in foreign language and monitors the things that are happening in the Republic of Croatia. So on the other hand, it's supposed to be supported, it doesn't have to be subdued under the questionnaire and talk about it as if it's something negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2823	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivan Radic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2824	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Maras, I said I absolutely support the printing of that daily list, though, but it bothers me. The fact that 244 422 copies are not sold, means they are distributed free of charge, so the obvious question is whether this is rational? Whether this amount of money can be spent on something else in some other national minorities, etc., etc. So that's what my reference to the State Audit Office was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2825	Thank you very much. And now we're going to the next club, and that's the IDS club, so on behalf of the club, they're going to say, "Dear Representative Furio Radin."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2826	I'll be here for a while and I'll be very brief because the first portals have already come out, here's my colleague Schuker here, who's in the title of one portal, already the first portals have appeared and the headlines are, "They've been fighting about brushing so Shuker called the bad Slovak for Yugoslavia." And then it lists all the other contributions that have been made here this morning and justified what I said earlier, and that's to check the effectiveness of this House from this revision, and I strongly recommend that we check the effectiveness of this Parliament, that instead of the things to talk about, we always talk about the same things so that we don't have to talk about what's important at the end and what people are interested in and what's actually going into their pocket to say. Here I would commend the revision and we as well as other segments of Croatian society are vitally interested in making a good audit of our associations' business because we are the first ones to realize how valuable it is to spend money on what is important for cultural autonomy, to preserve identity and to actually respect the value of the existence of national minorities in these areas. National minorities in these areas are the result or, in any case, the result of Croatia's history, many times the result of wars, what remains of the great wars, and don't tell you about national minorities resorted to flossulas about what, which is the number of national minorities, if the number of national minorities, because because people from here had to leave, were expelled in the winds of war, in the winds of everything that happened here in this wind. If we are, if there are few of us today, it's because history wasn't merciful with us, so there's little of us. That's the only reason I speak for the Italians, and now I speak for the IDS club because the IDS club works in Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County where the Italian is 99.98.99%. The Italians in Istria were, in Istria and Rijeka there were at least 250 thousand, today 250 thousand less. I've said that 10 years ago using a little harder words, we're easing it a little bit for the sake of the debate so we're all lighter and all, here I'm going to use that word that's now in this year that word is being used very mercifully by what we are, which we're the result of. We are the result of wars, the result of disasters in these areas. Such disasters, of course, were shared with us and the Croats. But to talk about us as something, like some people they've had, and that's why we should treat ourselves like we're a little bit more than I accept. We should be treated depending on what our history is and what our significance is for the Republic of Croatia. And I end this commendation of the revision of the words not only will we make those mistakes that clearly exist, but they have already corrected many of those in 2014 and 2015 which will be seen next year when we will discuss it. And so thanks to the review, thank you to all those who talked about the problem and not about attitude towards national minorities, to those who talked about attitude, I don't say that they are wrong because who am I to say that you are wrong, but I say that I disagree with you, and I can say that I disagree with you. Now let's go to the press, let's focus on a few points that I consider important. ... I talked to Mr. Maras a little while ago, so he brought it up and I thanked him, and he made a few arguments that we talked about. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is the only foreign language daily in Croatia, not only in foreign language in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, someone who does not know Croatian and 99.9% of people in the world do not know Croatian and belongs to those who know Italian, and 290 million people in the world know Italian, 290 million. Italian is the eighth language of distribution, more than Russian, more than German, more than Japanese. I can read about Croatia informatively that daily list that comes out on 32 pages every day. I'd like to ask you if it's a remittent problem so you respect that fact so you buy that journal by helping him. Because that daily paper speaks of Croatia and the reality of abroad, it is on the Internet. People can get information and you know they need foreign language journals. Now the Syrians have issued their first daily newspaper in Germany. Why? Because the daily papers still matter especially if they are on the Internet. These newspapers that have remittendo as well as other newspapers and which are distributed because they cannot be sold because we are in such a situation where newspapers are increasingly less and less bought and more and more read on the Internet that paper has an extraordinary social function, it has a social function to get to know the world. I say 290 million people speak Italian in the world, and many read it from Australia to Canada, I know because I went to my diaspora and I know how much it reads there, and I believe that in Brazil, in the state of São Paulo and Brazil there live 5 million Italians, I guess they don't read that paper on the Internet, they have their own list. But I mean it is a great advantage for Croatia to have one leaf that without Croatia investing too much money in it because one part of the money comes from Italy, regardless of which Croatia as a state does not have to organise it because we take care of ourselves as part of Croatian society, we Italians in Croatia, and it has been coming out every day since 1944 except for Sunday, every day except Sunday. Of course, Yugoslavia was made up for other reasons, as it is obvious, then there were propaganda reasons and now there are propaganda-economic reasons. Italy is our first partner economically. And we're asking a couple hundred pieces of remittende. In order to raise the question of whether more important projects or numbers, projects are more important. Because a good project comes up with numbers. A good newspaper in one foreign language, the only one in a foreign language, in good, in Italian, in the right Italian, comes up with numbers and plays a social role. That social role, my dear colleagues, should be respected. As my minority should be respected, not by number, because the number is the result of history but should be respected as the advantage of Croatia towards the world. We are the advantage of Croatia towards the world. And we are full of disadvantages like the entire Croatian society as I said before but we have some virtues as well as the entire Croatian society. That's why it applies to other national minorities, of course. So let's be gentle when we talk about minorities. You see, immediately the media takes what is bad in our debate, let's be objective, let's be honest, is, minorities in Croatia are not perfect, is not even the majority, we will improve, most will improve. In Istria, and with that ending, we're doing something a little better, sorry to tell you, this is Mayor Rovinj here, ask him how to finance national minorities, especially my minority in Rovinj, you'll see. Which she has a significance for Rovinj and you'll see. It is so in Pula, it is so in Umag, in Rijeka, which is outside of Istria and which is not a Hungarian colleague of Shandor, let it be clear once for everyone. Let's look at all these cities as much as they are funded and based on which they have rights in this case, the Italians. Based on which they have the rights of the Italians. It is spoken whenever you want to take a minority as an example, you take Italians. And then it is said, you can see that Croatia is good to national minorities. Why does the Italian minority have a lot of rights in Istria? Well, because we've determined that far before the law and still much better than any law of the statute. Statutes, city statutes and county statutes. Because we agree with the Croats, we are one and the same, we are two, it is impossible to understand Istria and Rijeka if we will, it is impossible to imagine them without the share of Italian culture. You cannot define that region without Croats and without Italians. It's another region then. And if we approach it in such a way that we realize that the importance of minorities is far greater than its number, the importance of minorities coincides with the importance of its or their culture. What a great culture, it's a great minority. That's why in Istria half of us are less than 10% but more than half of the people of Istria who are Croats mostly speak Italian because it's the history of the region. So when we are here in the Parliament with Sponzo, which is a Croat, with Tulia Demetlika, who is a Croatian, we often speak Italian, it comes naturally to us and then we go from Italian to Croatian, then I speak, I speak to them in Croatian and they, to me, return to Italian. That's what we're trying to do, and that's what I would strongly recommend to all of you. And once again thanks to the review for helping us with our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2827	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first of which is Mila Horvat's distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2828	Thank you. Comrade Furio, you've had a very interesting introduction to this debate. Of course, we support this debate at the club, but you read the title of a very respected read portal that says, "We argued about brushing, so Shuker called the bad Slovak for Yugoslavia and pictures of fellow Schuker.". I mean, it's a disaster, from this whole debate that we're having today, from this whole serious topic the media found, they pulled out the title, the bomb-title fact that it never happened as well as it was said here, and now someone needs to project some kind of conflict between fellow Pecnik and fellow Schuker. And that's how it works. And then we wonder what's happening to us on the street, what's happening to us, breaking cars, what's the frustration in young people has come to a critical point and they're reacting that they shouldn't react when this happens every day in a different form and away from hitting professionalism, from the responsibility of a serious profession called journalism. And then we wonder what's happening to us. Now, perhaps fellow Pecnik should respond with the same rhetoric, so we should return to this topic today in the context of the funding of national minorities to deal with these stories. I don't accept such dialogue. And this way the media is following us and following this political scene in Parliament and beyond is not the correct thing to say, and I don't see who needs this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2829	The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2830	But very short. The media are doing their job, we're stronger in the morning than when lunch comes, and after lunch, we're all quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2831	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2832	I agree with you, Mr. Radin, with everything you've said. I would just like to thank you for perhaps pointing out the importance of national minorities and the importance of the press, the lists of national minorities for the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world. The presses that are printed more or less appear online and often call me from Sweden, they call me from Australia, and they say well you said it, you did it well, the situation is like this or something. People follow it, people watch it no matter what we go out, I don't know it in 1,000, 1200 or 1,300 copies, no matter what happens there is sometimes a remittent, etc. For the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, it is extremely important to have the status of national minorities and we are, in fact, a mirror and that part of the Republic of Croatia. And it's time for it to be understood once, that we're not just fighting for our own partial interests, but that we're part of this society, that we contribute to this society, and that we're not just the ones who need to be paid, who are looking for something, etc. You can think differently, but I don't think it's in the spirit of what we all want, that it's not in the spirit of then progress, prosperity and raising the reputation of the Republic of Croatia which is our Homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2833	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2834	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorary Representative Fuiro Radin. You were talking about an exodus, the eviction of Italians from an area where the Italians were inhabited, so Rijeka, Istria and Zadar or... There are 17807 Italians living in Croatia as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the Italians not only left because the storm of war brought what he brought, not only did anti-fascists enter Rijeka and Istria and not mentioning the foybes lead to the departure of the Italians also lead to the departure of many Croats who were Italianized or Istrian, because there are associations in Trieste, the Union of Istrians. So, what's my message? If one part of it were to ask you a question, you know it, the Italians left because he was simply gone, he wasn't expelled because one number of Italians remained. And therefore I appreciate that I am glad that there is a "La fruit part of populo" list read by the Italians in Croatia and Italy and around the world. So that's one part of the funding is more or less transparent. But you have respected and appreciate the report's opinion that funding should be more transparent. If I didn't do it again right now... They know that, we all know that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2835	Thank you. The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2836	Thank you very much. I appreciate what you said. It's hard to say that one part wasn't expelled. I don't think anyone goes after the wars, leaves their home, because you know that these people have left everything behind, and then the war damages are paid with their property. I mean, there's been a lot going on. And they've never been compensated for it properly either in Italy or in Yugoslavia, or in Croatia, and these people are gone. I want to look to the future towards the future and say let's help that daily list to address as much as possible those people around the world so that they can feel closer to their homeland, because it's been extremely difficult for them. I see some of you know each other. They are actually so much with their psycho close to Istria, the Rivers and Zadar without any rematch, only with emotions that anyone who has had to leave their home with respect of course and anti-fascist struggle. Many were also on the side of anti-fascists, many were anti-fascists and left, many. I'll say one thing that's no longer mentioned here. Many communists have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2837	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2838	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Radin, what I want to commend. So, what is your daily "La voce del populo" is the only foreign language daily in the Republic of Croatia, which you are probably proud of and you need to be proud of. But what I wanted to say and what's the key is the word rational. How rational is it to be printed in 625000 copies, and 244,000 copies are not sold. So what you wouldn't print in 400,000 copies, 450,000 copies and the rest of the money to give to another national minority or spend on something else to make those funds more rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2839	Thank you. The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2840	... a proposal and a second one. [[Specially enabled.]] Let's get involved that this paper goes to the Croatian Embassy in Argentina where 40% of the people of origin are Italians, in Brazil where I said just before in the state of Sao Paulo there are 5 million Italians, in the United States, in Canada. Let's make sure that list arrives because this list contains information about Croatia and it is very exhausting and full of content. I said 290 million people in the world speak Italian. Let's not look, that means that this paper has enormous potential. Let's use those potentials. You should watch, I think our prime minister would support one such as calling it an investment no.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2841	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the last club of MPs, and that's the Most. In the name of MOST will speak the distinguished representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2842	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected members of the State Audit. Here we will support this report because it has been made very transparent and thorough. We also support the decision to amend and supplement the methodology for monitoring the implementation of non-governmental organisations' programmes and national minority institutions by which these same associations whose programmes are co-financed from the state budget are required to submit a quarterly, half-yearly and annual report on the work and implementation of the programme with a financial report. We hope it starts, if it hasn't been done before, it'll start. According to this methodology, the report must provide copies of the relevant financial documentation, the sources, payment lists, payments, accounts and the like, and we believe that such a decision contributes to the transparent way of co-financing of NGOs and national minority institutions. What we find unclear is, and it has already been said, the specific criteria for financial support for the financing of associations and national minorities. The point of the specific criteria of Article 4 states that the proposed programmes are to be evaluated on the basis of their quality and sustainability of the number of members gathered by the association, its previous results, administrative capacity, etc. We believe that these specific criteria should be different and clearer so that national minorities who have fewer members and less administrative capacity should not be left without the resources they need. And here we support the esteemed representative of Keatazi. One example of your own work and your life. I work at school, and I know what the problems of the Roma national minority are, as far as education is concerned. I think this way of funding so far that the national minority was pushed even more into isolation, which is not good. I think that this country should rest on the principle of justice and that here we support a review report that would want to change that. We're on that trail. I won't last much longer because a lot of it's already been said. I'll just say one more example of my own life, maybe it has nothing to do with this. My school where I worked until a few months ago is a frat school with a Croatian school in Budapest and those Croats in Budapest really don't have much support from the Croatian state. For example, my school provided them with the i.e. She bought bookies for those kids, so from her own resources. But what really impresses you when you come to that school and you see those children and those parents and those teachers and teachers of the Croats loving their country of origin but respecting the country they live in. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2843	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. She was approached by a respected representative of the first Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2844	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed fellow MPs. Here we have heard through all these reports long and wide about everything, and at least about what is the item of the agenda, which is an audit of the effectiveness of funding the implementation of NGOs and national minorities institutions through the Council on National Minorities. So, on this issue, I see that the topic and focus has been on a whole other topic, since the ideological openings of various debates on things that are completely unnecessary and that only create additional tensions, and few who say that he talked about the revision itself, its objectives and everything that the revision has established. At the very beginning of the presentation of her colleague, Ermina Lekaj Sllaskaj has detected several key problems where we have not actually heard the answers to these questions from the Council, to those remarks that are mentioned here. So, first of all, we have seen that the unclear system of funding for the lack of a clear financial plan, so the 2013 report, is the problem that we do not know how far the system has advanced, how many problems and perceived shortcomings in this report have been eliminated, but we see from this report an untransparent form of funding of national minorities where 10 national minorities have been put in a position of priority while 6 national minorities are therefore significantly less funded compared to the total share in the population of Croatia. So why this is how certain national minorities are discriminated on, and basically here here are the members of the National Minorities Council all the time, they've been looking for an excuse for their nelados, for poor work, for nontransparency. In the case of the financing of other state bodies, other state administrative organisations and everything else, not all of which they have been given a practical mandate and work. It is therefore indicated that there are shortcomings in the cost of employees of associations, so it is clear why these funds were intended to finance and encourage cultural activities, cultural autonomy. We don't see why this advice in these things hasn't responded. In the end, the counsel admitted some of its mistakes. They have indicated that they accept the revision and will therefore contribute to the resolution of any shortcomings, but no mention is mentioned here at least to accept that they are responsible as members of the Council for National Minorities and the issues that the Government has done in all of this. So why didn't the government control this whole process more specifically? So we can't accept the theory we heard here during the debate that it's about insignificant assets, marginal means, that it's about petty failures, that it's about small violations. Well, if they're small, then it's normal for them to happen. So looking for examples in other organizations is not good. I believe that national minorities in the Republic of Croatia have good rights and that Croatia can be an example to all other countries in our neighbourhood. I wish the Croats in our neighbouring countries had the same status, the same protection, the same rights as members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. So here we have no doubt about the quality of this report and the work of the State Audit. I congratulate them on this because in this way they contribute to the entire organisation of the system in the Republic of Croatia and it is of interest for everyone to commit as much activity as possible in a sign of legality and transparency. However, here the poor and non-transparent work of the Council for National Minorities is fully visible, and certainly the Government should seek the responsibility of the members of the Council who made it possible not to list them because it would lead us far away and all the predecessors were talking about it, therefore, unintended spending of the funds. So we want to improve the status of all national minorities, to non-discriminatory anyone who, through this report, shows that 10 national minorities had a privileged status compared to the remaining 6. So no one can be outside the law, and those who violated it should be replaced with other representatives. Because we know one who breaks the law to make it difficult to change his habits. It is necessary to change people and I believe that it will improve both the work and transparency of spending these funds. I wish Croatia could allocate more funds to members of national minorities, to finance their programmes. So here we've heard that it's more than 1,000 requests in the programmes and it's good that we have as much as possible, it's good that we have as many of these requests as possible, but when these funds are spent not purposely outside the framework for what they're intended for, it's absolutely unacceptable. So I think that today we've heard a lot and politics, a lot of flossules, a lot of flirting and winning political points on this subject. Efforts in a certain way to court voters. So I think it's totally inappropriate to use the question of national minorities for such things, as I say and inappropriate that the representatives of the opposition here show some kind of dissatisfaction with the work of this government or expect from this government something that they themselves have not corrected and done in the past. Well, these days we see, we are witnessing that former Prime Minister Milanovic and his associates who were four years old to make something concrete for this country, and also on maternity benefits where at least 1000 kunas could be given to each newborn child, are now reporting where they would give 8,000 thousand kuna. So they should finally understand that they lost the election, and Zoran Milanovic should finally wake up and realize that he is no longer the prime minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2845	Thank you. We left the topic again. Please stick to the subject. We have two replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2846	Thank you. The council has already responded to that. This is, I'm going to repeat once again, it's the contribution of this State Audit for 2013. But certain associations were not given money. I'm really interested in next year's report, if it's going to be next year, I don't know. I hope it'll be quick because I'm very interested. I've replicated for one other thing, and I apologize if I'm going to get out of the topic a little bit, but that's what you said, and it keeps repeating itself for a reason. And that's when you said I wish the Croats in other countries had those rights. I'd love to, too. But how much does Croatia work on whether HDZ is in power or SDP is in power? How much we have made sure that in the talks we have with other countries, regardless of what party is in power to raise the issue of minorities, the Croatian minority in other countries. Instead, we've been talking about it lately, and I know you'll be surprised when I say it, but you wouldn't be surprised if you remembered that I was talking about it then and who would remember who was saying anything anywhere, when we reduced the number of representatives from the diaspora to 3. That's what HDZ and SDP did together, fixing it while I and the National Minority Club talked about a flexible quota. He reduced it so that today the number of Croats, the number of Croatian representatives is underrated outside... That's what HDZ and SDP did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what they were doing, it's, it's changed the Constitution for it. I hope that some things will be fixed now, hopefully, as I hope all that has been claimed and that a letter vote will be put in place so that Croats and outside of Croatia could vote in a greater number that it will be entered. Because everyone promises it and it never comes true and technical assumptions exist. I, like the Italian in Croatia, vote by letter in Italy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2847	The honourable representative Petar Škorić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2848	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here I am thanking you for the replica and I hope that this remark that you have made will, I'm sure, follow this authority, I'm sorry it's not previous. So I believe that wherever the interests and rights of the Croatian national minority are, we should all fight and pawn together, and I am sure that this government will do so in our neighbouring countries. And I also hope that you will all support the return of a number of Croatian emigrants to the Croatian Parliament because this government will propose this, because we also consider that a discriminatory attitude towards Croats in emigration was made so that during the term of office of this government that we will correct it. So... The topic was therefore the financing and revision of the programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've made a lot of remarks here. Of course, next year we can't expect it to be for 2015 but at least 2014 the report that there will be visible progress and that we will be less eager to discuss and that all national minorities will be as satisfied as possible with the adoption of their programmes and that we will not put anyone in a discriminatory position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2849	Thank you very much. And now she's like the last replica of that distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2850	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You pointed out to Škorić what I would agree to or would not agree to, I did not very professionally analyse it, but most likely it is true that certain groups of national minorities were discriminated against by other national minorities which is unfair and there is no justice and this is what Mr Radin was talking about now and Mr Radin pointed out well, so that all should be given equal status on all matters. In particular, because we represent Croatia as a country that holds up national minorities, and that is how we should represent it because national minorities are rich and rich. In your speech, however, you were always emphasising the previous government. I would not agree if only the previous government had been there, I would say that before the government did not have a state-owned relationship with national minorities, regardless of what was partly in the coalition then HDZ, the SDSS towards certain groups of less national minorities, had no such relationship. Also do not politicise the emigrated Croatia or Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is much more important what the policy relationship was, both in the previous government and before, because it was a state relations towards our evicted Croats and those in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we need to protect, their interests under the Constitution, it is a constitutional obligation, as well as those who have emigrated to third countries, and unfortunately there are too many. And that's one big potential but only by state policy, not just by election law. For what? Because it's going to be in projections of some kind, it's going to be, you'd get 3, 4 more MPs, and that's it. If this is just the goal and if it's just important and we don't have a state policy, no matter who the prime minister is and who the national minorities are, and also the emigrated Croats, then the point is just to get 3.4 MPs is not a good message, only those people look at the number of MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2851	Thank you. The honourable representative Petar Škorić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2852	Well, your Honor, Mr. Bull, I accept to the greatest extent your replica. I do not wish to amnest any of the responsibilities regarding insufficient engagement in the protection of the rights of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it would take us as far as if we were to draw the line from the '90s, so on here who and how he held to Croatian emigration and before the '90s, I will not even open the topic so where Croatian emigration and immigration is declared a state enemy and so on. Of course, I am pleased that we finally have a consensus in this House, I hope that this will prove in practice that in future times and minority rights in Croatia, but also minority rights of Croats outside Croatia will be improved and that we will build a commonity, a higher degree of solidarity and everything. But here we are through this debate today where we have discussed everything and at least this report, so I believe there is certainly one persistent battle ahead to bring attitudes together and bring them closer together, and so that these topics are no longer politically coquetated and going in one direction that is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2853	Thank you. And we still have a replica of the distinguished representative of Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2854	Thank you. Your Honor, I don't understand you. Your debate began with the fact that few speakers here spoke about the review report, and then you ended up with 7 or 8 thousand euros in child benefits. I would understand completely that you said that for a Hungarian I don't know 9000 or 6000 euros and then it would be in some context of this debate. Another thing I would like to underline, I have noted in my debate that there is a reduction in the resources received by the Council for National Minorities, and I think this debate is all in fact today and confirmed that my findings. Money's never enough, and when they shrink, they open up a whole series of problems. This also raises the problem of the proportionality of the distribution of funds, or what they might call capital. You should bear in mind that there is a series in the Republic of Croatia to call them traditional national minorities – the Hungarian national minority, the Czech national minority, the Italian national minority. These are national minorities living, living in these rooms for thousands of years, organised, organised over 100 years. They have their own institutions, they have their schools, they have their own cultural homes, and we are all proud that our queens have invested in these homes. Czech homes, Hungarian houses, Italian houses, etc. Normally, these institutions should continue to function and it is normal for the National Minority Council to put it that way in a more favourable position. And if there were more money, if they were to stand out more then in any case, both the Roma national minority and other national minorities would, right, get to that level. And that's supposed to be our tendency. Because if we cancel the money there won't be any Czech homes, there won't be any Italian homes that live, that work, that work and meet the needs of these national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2855	Thank you. The honourable representative will answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2856	Here's the honourable representative, in the second part of the question, I practically accept your replica, that we all expect that the greater resources and strengthening of the economy will be allocated, that they will not be reduced, which is done here during this time of year because of the difficult economic situation, and we are all on the same track. And the mention I'm saying is the issue of raising funds for newborns was the same in the context, so this issue and generally politicizing the topic and all other topics. Therefore, the question of newborns is not recognized, so whether someone is a member of a national minority or a majority nation. It's a fee of 7600 kuna promised by this government, and it's going to go on. And it is inappropriate to bid on the subject by the former government now that they are in opposition to raise funds, and during their four-year term they were not prepared with a special 1000 kuna. So that's hypocrisy, that's what's inappropriate, and I've seen through the discussion that in a similar way, a number of issues, the rights of national minorities. And that's why I find it inappropriate to go back in time, but let's look all together in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2857	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is that of distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2858	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to answer for this item on the agenda today, but I'm reading this report it's unfortunately in 2013 you can't talk about today, about tomorrow if you have to go back to the past in 2013. But that's our responsibility. I believe that something needs to be changed procedurally and businessly, because we cannot reasonably discuss the failures of 2013 on the basis of the impact of the State Audit. I think the State Audit did a good job, and that's what this report shows. The report serves us to see if the government’s obligations to the Council have made it possible to meet and see if there are shortcomings. We believe that these shortcomings in 2014, the 15th year that this has improved and that this is now transparent. We'll find out later, unfortunately. But what particularly prompted me to debate is that we cannot avoid political speeches or debates, because this is Parliament, a Parliament where politics is conducted. We can't hold the Holy Mass here because we're not chosen for it. Personally, I was very saddened by the performance of a distinguished fellow named Pecnik this morning, who came from my city of Osijek and my constituency. Because look, if a representative of a national minority without any responsibility is going to insult any MP or politician from the majority Croatian people, and no one reacts, then it gives us the right to think that we do not live in a very democratic society. I believe that the Republic of Croatia has been long for years, and especially in the process of negotiating Croatia's EU accession, it has done much, and we are not to measure ourselves now. We have the right to say that we want the Croatian people in neighbouring countries to have the same rights, at least the same. It's our right. That is how those countries of origin that are bound by international law and their obligations to join the EU will decide if they want to do so. We carried out this process. Today, if someone mentions certain groups in Croatian society that are for various reasons in some deviations, the Croatian government should discuss this and decide how to punish the inappropriate ones in public. Surely it is not time that if there is a protest that took place after the arrival of the new Croatian government to send the Croatian police and beat someone in the streets. What kind of message is that to the Croatian public? And why is it that sometimes there is no understanding of national minorities in our country? Because we live in a society that is highly susceptible to outside influences, to the standard of living of our citizens, and to some national minorities that have gone too far at some point. Look, it was not disputed that the law was such that in Vukovar they should, if the law so decided, put those bilingual inscriptions on Cyrillic. And what happened? It happened that it was done overnight, that it was a move that was called simply meeting legal requirements but no one considered at least an attempt to talk to people who live there is the situation of international understanding. And that is the task of Parliament (Croatian Parliament) and the Croatian Government and all of us today and tomorrow. And when today we have to talk about yesterday if all of us sitting here and especially respected colleagues from national minorities I think you've made a contribution to your rights being like this. Are they financial enough? Is 18 million kuna enough for the press? Is 50 million kuna enough for the cultural amateurism of national minorities? Did all the presses justify the purpose of their date? We can set that up at a given moment of time. You can't have one national minority printing press in time today toss all your presses, but one of them has gone too far. Is this a political shoot-out with non-experienceds? Yes! And we can't keep our mouths shut right now and pretend like it didn't happen. It happened. And we can't talk today about 2013 when we live in 2016. The elections have passed, Croatia has entered the EU, we have a new Croatian government, we have new obligations ahead of us and unfortunately we cannot speak freely about the necessary thousands of times mentioned reforms or new laws if we have points on the agenda that bring us back a little bit to the past. But we need to speak openly. He who does not understand the right of his people, the right of his national minority does not love his country well enough, our country because in the war for the defenses of Croatian independence the Hungarian national minority, both the German and Slovak and Serbian national minorities, fought. We cannot say that there were no Croatian defenders from the Serb people. It is, especially in the area of our Slavonia and Baranja. These are things that are inevitable and they will enter Croatian history. In my opinion, colleagues from the national minorities, this is not controversial. This report is correct. The Council for National Minorities has performed its role and the task by law. There are some illogicalities, intransparency, but the state review is known to warn, the one who has crossed the area of the offence will be punished, and the one who has crossed into the area of criminal law will be prosecuted. That's normal. But we need to know where money is and how it is spent, as well as other things, and when it comes to National Minorities' Council. And it's not good when someone wants to argue that it's immediately considered an attack on the Council, an attack on a national minority. I'm the first against it. I don't want anyone to restrict the ability to warn anyone of any illogicalities and ask if it's improved in the years ahead. I believe it is. Your role in the creation of the Croatian state, in the contribution of parliamentaryism in this House of the High is great. But there were misunderstandings among you, too, because it all came down to the question of the world's horizons, going back to the past. Now did someone insult me if they said I was talking nonsense? Well, no, you have the right to say your opinion. But I also can't let Mr. Pecnik tell you that I'm a national minority, that's for me, and that everything you say is so beautiful and wonderful that I have to keep my mouth shut. No, I'm not! I will not because I believe that this is the High House of the Croatian People, the most representative body and cannot be allowed here to insult the majority of Croatian people because we are a free country. A country that wants to hear and has to hear criticism and praise but, reasonably, without any special hatred that is often present with you, shut up about what you're crushing. That's not right. Also, my wish has always been and I believe that the national minorities should be with the Croatian government was left or right, above all not because there is some kind of vote purchase and what I know but because the rights of national minorities, programmes, will be better achieved. The government needs to understand every national minority. Has the government done well in some situations? I think there were failures because there was no conversation, there was no understanding. Remember two columns in Vukovar. Then why are we discussing how much money the national minorities have spent? Because at some point, there was no conversation, no human understanding and no conversation. And every responsible government today when we are a member of the EU, when we have assumed a mass of international obligations, we should be teaching our neighbours how to join the EU more easily. Both the Republic of Serbia and our neighbouring friendly country of BiH and Slovenia and Macedonia and other countries. Look what happened to the Croatian people. It's probably not the subject of this report right now. I said I'd accept it, but it's sad when one constituent nation of a country becomes because of the political relations of minorities. No matter how formal it is, it's not like that. So, if we're to understand each other, if we're really going to talk about the economy tomorrow, about new laws, about how many of our countries have options, what our opportunities are for state finances, what we're going to do with savings, and how these kinds of topics were supposed to be to read the report, the State Review has done its job in a transparent, responsible manner. We accept this report, we ask for shortcomings to be corrected, we ask if there are opportunities for the new Croatian government to allow national minorities and presses and issues related to cultural programmes, amateur programs and everything else. But we cannot avoid the question that you are part of the Croatian Parliament and that you decide on important issues for the Croatian state and that you are part of either the Government or the opposition. It's your right. But we have always understood with you in this House. And I absolutely just can't accept it when someone can give themselves the right to say what they want, someone can't answer, and then we say you're going back to the past, you're going where you shouldn't go. And that is all the burden that burdens the Croatian people, the Croatian state and those opportunities that we have today. And I'll repeat, you haven't done a bit for this country, this Council, I've been following him for years, this is his third term in the Croatian Parliament, and I know how far we've made progress, and I know how much government has done, and I know how much work it's been to get to this level now. I believe that the level of 2014 and 2015 is much better than boredom. I'm also sure that even the new government, no matter how it goes, could be better, will not be trampled by anyone's rights. But it also won't allow anyone to be called and offended just because they belong to a national minority, and that we have certain outbursts that you, Mr. Pecnik, have here kept silent. We won't because you're wrong, it's not right, and you need to answer!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2859	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2860	I'm truly sorry if I caused mental pain out there, but you're going to survive it. Secondly, I didn't insult anyone here. They insulted me. I have not noticed that I have offended the Croatian people with one word. If I am, I apologize to the Croatian people because it really wasn't my intention, but I was offended with these words or it's normal. I didn't turn away from how it was, how they warned me here because I took this one as a metaphor just to talk about the quality of writing cultural programs. The cultural program isn't just the program you give, it's what you write in a particular newspaper. It was simply a parable of not doing such a thing because it goes against Croatia's interest. I guess that's clear or you don't think so? And yet, in the end, the advice one to teach you is not often said it is not in the spirit of the Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2861	The honourable representative Josip Salapic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2862	Thank you very much, President. I didn't mention what national minorities you are, that's what you think I said, I didn't mention it. I said you're a member of the national minority, and you know exactly what you're saying, and you know how and how you normally address the public and what your values are based on. I respect your left-wing worldview, but you too, Mr. Pecnik, must admit that neither your constituency nor your chair protects you from what you're saying here. So calling out the majority people, sometimes when you're talking to a man, he has to wear a black suit because he comes to us to bury a sense of democracy but also a sense of humor, because you don't have it. You just have a mission to insult someone. And when your answers are answered, you find yourselves offended. So I understand correctly, neither am I deaf, nor am I blind, and I know what you were saying there. I'm just saying that how nice, rude you were saying that at some point I wanted to answer. It is my right as Parliament's representative and I will always respond to every debate you have next if you cross the limits of any human tolerance. That's what my right is and it's your right to replicate as you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2863	The next replica of the esteemed representative Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2864	Thank you. Comrade Salapic, as always, just a little bit, as you always tried to balance your speech. So I can say that with at least 50% of the things you said, I agree, and I agree with more. At one point, however, you said one sentence that I cannot understand, so I ask you as a question, with members of the national minorities there is often hatred. That's what you said, and I listened well. Since I didn't notice that hatred, then I'd ask you just to tell me what you meant by that? If, in my opinion, if a member of a national minority is listed at a certain point in time or in voice, he has certain views that are provocative, extreme or satirical, let us assume that we must treat him as a member of the majority, as a citizen. So you tell him what you think about it, not question his nationality and correlation with him being a minority. So if someone does, if someone resorts to satire, you know, for example. What we're talking about now, we're going to talk about satire, whether it hits us, doesn't hit us, but the same way the Croats wrote, and often they write and the Croats now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2865	The honourable representative Josip Salapic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2866	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't mean collective hatred of national minorities towards the majority Croatian people. Most of my debate was about the debate of my colleagues, because I listened to what he was saying, and I also follow his work in the City Council of Osijek I know that he is personally focused on Mr. Glavas and HDSSB and often his views professional, scientific and as members of the national minorities are directed towards his personal animosity towards someone. And to explain why I said hate. As for other issues, I have never looked at a left-wing representative, sometimes I personally disagreed with someone personally, but once a good idea that was given and a good job done, I often mentioned some ministers from the former government there, I believe they were excellent ministers of the Croatian government as well as in the new Croatian government. So, as that element that we can speak freely and discuss and come to a common conclusion, believe me I'm sure you've been in the Parliament for many years and you've had all the mandates here, one of the few that the conversation regardless of the laws that we had then is in force but no one can judge the deep wounds in some relations, I mean the Serbian National Minority. If it had been discussed, we would have achieved much more and there would have been much less problems. Today, when people look at us, they don't understand that we're talking about 2013 because we technically can't. This is Parliament, politics must agree on the present. People expect a lot more from us than they did before. I believe that this topic of praise is worth every single one of the rights of the national minorities, but that we must quickly move on to what citizens expect of us. And if the state's okay no one's going to ask the question is you get 50 million or 100 million for the cultural activities of national minorities because in our country it's good, and you're going to decide if you're representatives with most or with opposition? It is now the right of every single person here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2867	And the last replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2868	Comrade Salapic, Mr. Pecnik insults someone when he's not in the hall, and when he's in the hall, Mr. Pecnik is smaller than a cat's grain or smaller than a mouse. So that doesn't surprise me, I wasn't here for whom he insulted, I guess he alluded to me. So he's smaller than a little muscle, pulls into a mouse hole and shuts up. And when it's not in the hall, then take it. It doesn't surprise me if it doesn't talk about who Mr. Pecnik is insulting. It speaks of him, a man who held a moral political education until the end of the 1990s for the JNA reserves. It's Mr. Pecnik. Let him be offended because he says that about him. The second thing, he says, is that he is offended by some conditionally spoken anomalies in the majority Croatian people. Mr. Pecnik, you're a national minority and you need to enjoy all rights. And I will support this report. But you will not and cannot read lessons to the majority people, this majority people will recognize these anomalies in their own ranks and will try to remove these anomalies. And you are not the one who will show the people of the majority and read the lessons to the people of the most good or bad. We'll be aware of that ourselves. And the last thing. You mentioned some black uniforms. You as an old communist and activist, a member of the Central Committee in '89. You probably have a lot of Tito's pictures in the archives. If you don't have a color on Tito's picture in black uniform, I'll be happy to give it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2869	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, since we started out so badly, we ended up. We started with everything but reviewing the effectiveness of funding NGOs' programmes, we ended up again with topics that have absolutely nothing to do with it. And I think we all need to take a deep, deep picture of it. Of course, someone picked it up. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2870	Thank you, Mr. President. In my understanding, there was an infringement of Article 238(6). The Rules of Procedure, which states that during the hearing, a representative must not, by his conduct, deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. I'm looking for, I've raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure before these central committees, etc., so I can't appeal to Article 5, but then Mrs Pusic may also have said. So I believe that the gentleman, i.e. inconsistencies, is the fact that Mr. Jaroslav Pecnik was elected to the Parliament from the coalition list Croatia is growing in IV. the electoral unit, not as a member of the national minority. And as a general rule of conduct in this House, we would have to define when MPs perform as members of a national minority if they are so ethnically and are elected on the general list because I believe that a large number of even preferentially respectable votes have been voted by members of the Croatian people and that its accession must not be seen from the aspect of being held on behalf of any people but on behalf of the citizens who elected him in the elections. And in that sense, our general rule of conduct in the House should be that we don't count blood cells for MPs and we're saying that they appear in someone's name and insult someone. So I can insult anyone in the House regardless of their nationality, even their own people, if we were to discuss it. Well, Mr. President, I call on these general rules of conduct to be treated in that sense and on the very nationality of the MPs if they are already heretically pleading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2871	I agree with you, for a good part, however, unfortunately as I said it had begun and began with my colleague, Pecnik, and his statements so unfortunately end, badly. Bad, bad, and wrong direction. It's totally bad and in the wrong direction. And then I appealed not to go in that direction, obviously my appeals didn't have much echoes in those who discussed it. The Honorable Vice President of the House, Mrs. Pusic, also raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2872	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Article 238 of the 5th indentation or insult of the chairperson or other representatives. I am certainly the advocate of a fierce, reasoned debate in the Parliament and even commentary in the Assembly but not personal disqualification, therefore personal insult. And in this case, it's really personal against fellow Pecnik. You'll remember from our time textbook in logic that we had in high school in which the example of the argument ad hominem was bad for you the letters told me Stipan and I tell him Stipan you're a clout. So we can argue over the metrics but personal assault and personal insult of disqualification at a personal level will ruin this little parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2873	I agree with that. As I did not interrupt, and perhaps I should have been a colleague of the Pecnik at the beginning and interrupted his speech, so I will not now do anything about the breach of the Rules of Procedure but continue to appeal only to all of us together to maintain our dignity in this House. And if that practice continues then I will begin to apply, of course, the Rules of Procedure with warnings, with the denials of words which I would very much like to avoid. Because it's not my way, and I don't think it's in the spirit of parliamentaryism, but I'm afraid if we keep doing this, we won't be able to avoid it, I say, as we've gotten off to a bad start, it seems to me that we're ending badly. But we remained in the debt of a truly respected representative, Josip Salapic, to answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2874	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleague Glavas, the intention of the debate and the intention of what I was saying absolutely did not go to personal insult. And these injuries to the Rules of Procedure that were going on are also the injuries of the Rules of Procedure because they were not infringements of the Rules of Procedure. And I think if someone is allowed to say what they want, but others don't, then it also reduces someone's rights because we're all equally elected in this House. If someone down at the pay phone says they speak as a national minority, then they speak as a national minority. And I know I'm going to cross the borders of the Rules of Procedure now, but neither Mrs. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament nor Mr. Bauk listened to the debate this morning, nor in his offices I'm sure of it. And also why we would not react if in our country, which was in the previous government of the Vice-President of the Parliament, a respected colleague without personal insult who was then a member of the Labourist and Vice-President of the party on Croatian TV represented himself as an independent political commentator of the situation, events in the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time he was a member of the Labourist and no one responded to it. Well, isn't that a threat to the rights of others who aren't on the same level? So every time colleagues from the Croatian coalition grow we will respond to these things that someone can allow themselves down when they speak and someone will not allow. We are all equal here, we have our mandates, we have our right to speak and all that is good on your part we will support and what is not good if someone crosses the border we will respond regardless of the violations of the Rules of Procedure and whatever someone hides behind these tiles and sticks it doesn't matter if we work together for our Homeland we will do equal rights. If you let this happen one more time we'll answer the same and more, because we won't keep quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2875	Thank you very much. With this we have exhausted the point of the audit carried out during which there has been more and more audit and funding of the programme, and then we will continue at three o'clock with the next point, and this is the report on the financial audit of the port administrations seems to me that at least at the port administrations we will not have as much deviation as in the morning. The next item is the Report on the effectiveness of the funding of NGOs and national minority institutions - National Minority Council. The report shall be submitted to the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the effectiveness of funding for NGOs and national minority institutions is adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. 116 votes for, 2 against, nothing abstentions. I find that most votes have concluded that it has been proposed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2878	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and representatives of the rest of you who are still here. Now, let me start with this report of ours, and that's about port administrations. Therefore, the State Audit Office carried out a financial audit of 14 port administrations of which 8 of the state importance and 6 of the county importance, noting that 29 port administrations were established in the Republic of Croatia. Reports were submitted to the Croatian Assembly in May 2015. The subject of the audit was financial reports and business for 2013. The revenues of the port administrations covered by the audit amounted to 284.7 million kuna, which accounts for 69% of the revenues of all 29 established port administrations. The expenditures amounted to €218.6 million, the surplus revenues showed 11 port administrations totalling €74.6 million, while the deficit was shown by 3 port administrations totalling €8.6 million. 6 unconditional, 7 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions have been expressed on financial reports and business audits of covered port administrations for 2013. The audit of identified irregularities and failures relate to the internal control system, planning and accounting or business, revenue, expenditure, programmes and projects and public procurement procedures. Among other audits is identified in the field of accounting operations irregularities concern the recording of business events, the list of assets and liabilities, and the keeping of travel orders records. In the case of individual port administrations, the payment of port fees shall be made in a way that sets out the monthly invoice on the basis of the reports delivered by shipowners containing the amount of the port tax charged, not the number of passengers and vehicles transported, and the total value of the tickets sold, which shall be served as the basis for the calculation of the port tax. The port administrations did not request the ship's delivery of the report with the necessary data and the payment-related paragon blocks do not follow a numerical sequence of chronological order. The payment measures were not taken, so the claims remain of value. The port administration paid incentives to employees without applying the criteria established by the internal act and the stimulation for the results of the operations achieved, which is not provided for by the internal act and the labour contract. For certain services and works, public procurement procedures have not been carried out and the supply of goods is carried out by direct negotiation. In order to remove identified irregularities, the Office has given 67 orders and recommendations which would contribute to increasing compliance with the laws, regulations and the efficiency of the use of funds. What I would like to point out is that in earlier audits carried out in these entities other than the county port administrations of Cres, Krk and Rab, because for the first time 40 orders and recommendations were made for them, from which 30 or 75% were followed while two orders or recommendations were carried out, and 8 were not followed at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2879	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2880	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Chief State Auditor with an associate and associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the 2013 report on the audit of the operations of the port administration's financial reports. First of all, Mr. Chief State Auditors, the mistake seems to have been subdued by the report, and that's what you've just repeated. In Croatia, 33 port administrations are set up, not 29 as it says, and as you said, 28 of them are seas. Of these 28 marine 22 are county and 6 is state and 4 are river port administrations, again of state importance Slavonski Brod, Sisak, Osijek and Vukovar. It is probably a tipfeller, therefore only because of the minutes clearly in the Croatian Parliament are we to correct that error. I must say that on behalf of the HDZ Club, we commend this report, it is transparent, it precisely indicates irregularities, and I would say illegalities in financial operations and otherwise the business of certain port administrations primarily of the Rab County Port Authority for which you gave an unfavourable opinion. I think that what is written can primarily serve the directors as well as the boards of certain port administrations, because from this report, it is very easy to make a quality financial report, including annual plans and reports of plans carried out in each port administration. Otherwise, the port administrations are public institutions established by the Law on the Sea, Marine Good and Marine Ports of 1995, when the port system is profoundly amended and when institutions that care about port infra and supra structures are established on the one hand and on the other hand companies which are generally authorised by concessions or concessionists who perform... works at each port. So in my view, the project when the port system in Croatia was established in a way that on the one hand the infrastructure and the anti-structure is primarily cared for by a public institution was owned by a state or owned by a county and on the other hand by a concessionary who is generally a private company, a private person, a private legal person well-designed project which has been functioning in the Republic of Croatia for 21 years. What can be determined from your report is that it is almost in all port administrations and almost even in those for which you have given unconditional opinion is still room for improving this financial reporting and financial business, but in any case in those port administrations where you gave conditional opinion and especially in the County port administration of Rab, there are a number of irregularities as you yourself have said from poor income planning and expenditure, from poor project management especially in the State Port Authority of Rijeka where the GT project is developing, then there are numerous irregularities that concern the stimulation of certain employees of the port administration for me unnecessarily needed for the efficient use of working time, etc. etc. So out of 14 port administrations, 6 received unconditional opinion, 7 conditionally and 1 port administration unfavourable opinion. It is significant to say that a county institution that was founded in 1999, which has been functioning for 17 years, works, works so badly to run its financial business, so badly operates as the Rab County Port Authority where such irregularities have indeed been found, perhaps even illegality that it is simply surprising that later, certain revenues are not shown in financial reports and these incomes based on basic activity and which otherwise account for 40% of the revenues of the port administration. This is the revenue from fees and port charges for the use of the coast and not to be recorded in the annual report. It's just amazing. Otherwise, when we talk about the revenues of the Port Authority in these 14 port administrations that you have audited, the total income of these port administrations seems to be around 280 mere 4.5 million kuna of which 107 million kuna is almost 40% of the waste on the most important revenue, which is the fee or port tax for the use of the coast and that this income one County port administration does not register until the kuna is uncomprehensible, let alone if it does not record almost 30% of the revenue it has collected in the year for which you audited. What is also very important is that, within the deadline foreseen, no financial reports are made that, after the prescribed deadline for the submission of financial reports, these reports are changed, etc. etc. It is truly unimaginable that for a county institution such as the Port Authority Rab because it can happen. I fully agree with your main observation that it is inadmissible and out of the economic interest of a particular port administration that its most important income is realised on the basis of a report from the shipowners which does not contain data on sold cards and on the value of sold tickets for both passenger and vehicle transport. So basically the port administration that should ensure the maintenance of the port infra and substructure, and for that to achieve the revenue from the payment of the tickets charged by the shipowner in the first row by the shipowner who is in line with the wave transport and whose income is 6%, 6% is not a small part of the value of the total ticket sold that individual port administration does not have complete control at the port which manages how many individual boaters collect funds from sold tickets either for passengers or freight vehicles. I know that since the Island Law that certain travellers were particularly freed, there were children, students, pensioners and persons over 60 years of age who did not pay, that the islanders paid the privileged ticket and that they had vignette etc. etc. However, it is so simple a mathematical process that it is incomprehensible that it can be understood that the port administration can function that there is no complete control over the traffic at its port why it was founded, and therefore more than that traffic depends on its overall work, the possibility of continuing to maintain port infrastructure in the first row of the coast for which the compensation is imposed. What you would refer to in particular now is the State Port Authority. So County port administrations generally do not have projects that are so difficult in financial terms, but 6 state administrations in Croatia of the sea, so the State port administration of Rijeka, the State port administration of Zadar, the State port administration of Sibenik, the State port administration of Split, the State port administration of Ploče and the State port administration of Dubrovnik. At this point, projects are developing over 800m euros for the construction of these ports to be competitive. Otherwise, the port which is the right and last point in the traffic direction is certainly the driver of Croatia's economic development. Croatia is, I would say, in a geographical sense to the God of the Day of States, where the Mediterranean Sea is the most entering the European continent and that position of our port should be used. Therefore, these projects, which I mentioned earlier, which are developing 800m euros, are extremely important to implement within the deadline within which the projects of these port administrations have received large funds with the guarantee of the Croatian government, i.e. with the guarantee of the state and these projects are being developed to raise the competitiveness of Croatian ports and then clearly Croatian economies. The study that was done for the port of Rijeka when it took place in the construction of the river GT project indicated that on one, one kuna, one dollar, one euro, anyway, which took place in the port system, the wider community, so the city of Rijeka Primorje-Gorski County and the Republic of Croatia on that one kuna, one euro, made a $20 increase in revenue due to the multiplication of these activities that connect to the port system. So you, too, rightly in your report and you said and wrote that it is unacceptable that a national port management project that started 12 years ago is still not developing, that projects are being changed, that local permits and building permits are not being coordinated when the projects change, and then leads to a delay in the project, which then causes major costs to the state budget, new agreements with the World Bank which finance this project, etc., etc. So you have rightly referred to the operation of Rijeka's port administration where you said that in the year in which you carried out your audits, that this project that costs 220m euros is not going as planned, as agreed and that there is really no reason for these works to be late and thus the port of Rijeka to lose that competitiveness that allows this project to be the best port of the northern Adriatic. But when we talk about these two projects, I have to mention two other major projects where the past government said for political reasons that I would enter into from one side of the humane change and that the humane changes later had a delay in the project which is very important, in the first place I think that the port administration of Ploče where you made your supervision in 2011. And when you gave that port administration unconditional opinion, you did not even visit it after that because the port administration was doing well at the time, in accordance with the law and its business and its financial reporting and its financial operations. However, despite such good work by the port administration, there was a change in the management council and then the director and, as a consequence, it happened that after the establishment, after the shift in the administrative structures of the port administration today, a project of integration of trade and transport in the port of Ploče, which is worth around 120m euros is significantly delayed. The project was due to be completed on 30 June 2014, and now here is the end of February, or half of February 2016, late 20 months of this project, or 19 months late, with the uncertainty of its completion. But what is even more important in this project will create a new 60 million kuna in the state budget, which you will determine when you come to the port office of Ploče, and then we will see that on the one hand, a late project and on the other hand, new costs are created in the state budget. And the second project I must also mention is a project by Gagenica in a partnership which this government inherited at a very high stage of realization and then the project complicated the situation. In any case, the project is still not finished as it is imagined and I don't think that this project can be done the way it was imagined, given that there has been a change of project. And then after the project was changed certainly to that, that all the repercussions and a little bit to perform construction works. So, it's not good at all when certain projects that are done in quality, which are well managed because of the change of political furniture in the government in the Republic of Croatia start to change, which then cause problems in the functioning of certain projects and then clearly suffers... which should have already been built, suffered and the economy that is relying on it and which is very important to suffer and the state budget as new costs arise throughout this system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't have time to say anything more about ports, about river harbor administrations that got unconditional opinions. I think it is good to have a similar project that took place in the seaports, I say in all seaports developed a project of about 800 million, I think the time has come to also enter the projects of building our 4 ports of national importance and in Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek and Vukovar, to finally approach the realisation of the reconstruction or restoration of the Sava River because until the Sava River is restored, until the GAS which was practically and the port of Slavonski Brod is returned, and that I am not talking about the port of Sisak is practically staying outside of any normal shipping and thus cannot be that very important traffic direction with it is Sava realized. It is a slightly better situation with Vukovar, the situation in Osijek is not better, since it is also necessary to enter into the maintenance of the Drava so that Sava, or Drava, could be used, in this way the port of Osijek, which, in its own time, was an extremely large Croatian port, could be again what it was before for the needs of the Slavonian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2881	Thank you, we have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2882	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bačić, I didn't mean to discuss this subject today, but since you've already opened the topic that politics has interfered with the fact that the project has slowed down. Politics couldn't influence the project if we saw that it was a two-stage project, that in the first phase, a container terminal was built and in the second one it was a scattered load. You're only talking in this section about building an operational coast for scattered cargo. In this section, if you look at the statements of the people involved in this process by the director of the Port Authority and the director of the port, you will see that the project was delayed because the technical documentation was being modified to find savings in the placement, i.e. the consolidation of the terrain. The second thing, you had to build a trafostation, you didn't say the same thing, and the third thing couldn't be an investor, the investor was the port administration couldn't agree with the concessionary that the subject of public procurement would be the appropriate equipment that would be installed after the terminal was built. That's why he was late for the project. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2883	The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2884	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Penic, I couldn't talk much about the port administration of Ploca. It is not the subject of this revision either, but I only looked at it partly, so I couldn't say everything, and I didn't say it as you said that the first stage was a container terminal that was completed within the time of the HDZ Government that you knew very well and contracted and this project and project terminal for scattered cargo which... The insurance funds started, and then, when the staff changes in the Port Authority came, it happened that he was late today for 20 months or 19 months, and that he was not finished yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But while you're saying that something had been badly done before, how that when the audit came when it happened, it gave unconditional opinion, the State Audit Office, and on the other hand, why the current administrative council and the current director if he holds that he is doing what is right and did not initiate the cost-refund procedure is a delayed project. Because when you're right and you're doing good, and the contractor doesn't do good, and he doesn't respect the provisions of the law, then it's up to you who's the contractor of the work to start the process of charging the cost of the penalty because it was late. I'm surprised that if you're right then why the current director then, the current director didn't initiate the procedure for the collection of extremely high costs. I argue, and this next time is likely to show us that the State Audit Office is expecting us in the Port Authority of Ploče where the project is worth 120 million euros and which is being developed, that you will be witnessing an increase in costs and not the savings you were talking about. God forbid they're savings, but you'll see that it'll be about 60 million kuna for the Republic of Croatia to cost more of this job currently being done at the Port Authority of Ploče. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2885	Thank you. The next is the replica of distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2886	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Bačić, you were talking about a negative finding for the Rab County Port. I come from the island, I know about what it is, but it really fascinates me that after yesterday's debate on cultural institutions where the Croatian National Theatre of Ivan the noble Zajc in Rijeka was particularly prominent with its findings. Here again we have one finding within a port administration that is under direct let's say command or directly is the county of the coastal-goranska in which the SDP, the mayor of Komadin, once again rules. And let's see what it says in the report. The revenues of HRK 625000 are not recorded, i.e. They don't have the bills for that amount. After that, we have an 18-count made in the amount of 942000 kuna done. No procurement procedures have been carried out for 219000 kuna. We're asking ourselves what the state institutions are doing? Why doesn't this bother the Mayor of Komadini who can change him the other day if he wants to and if it bothers him. No, you know what would be the reaction of the Port Authority director when the press asked him how you feel about this review report? He said that he didn't believe this review finding that he was going to take the private auditory house and that he was going to determine what was true of all this and what wasn't. So if we're going to act like this really in the space where we deal with the funds that are public, to demean something that's state, which is determined to deal with the audit, and we're going to say we're going to take someone private who's going to write what we want. Is that how those who told us that they were the Bundes League, that they were the ones who knew how to behave, which is acceptable to this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2887	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2888	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague, Boric, of the 14 port administrations visited by the State Audit Office in 2013 four are in the area of your county, then in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County. No institution has ever done business in such a way as to gain unconditional opinion. It's kind of weird to me, but here's the thing, they didn't get all the unfavourable opinions. But the only unfavourable opinion is coming from the PGG right now, so that's what needs to be said. In fact, when we talk about an unfavourable opinion, then there is not a single segment of financial operations in the Port Authority of Rab that can get a positive assessment. It's also a little bit, I said, I'm surprised that some public institution of county importance could exist for 17 years and get an unfavourable opinion like this. It is, and a team more if I remember just that County Port Authority was directly under the supervision of the then Deputy Maritime Minister who was the Mayor of Rab, and then all together this kind of business should be seen in another spectrum. Well, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2889	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative, Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2890	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the State Audit, I welcome you all. I would like to congratulate you once again on this finding that has been very professionally and crediblely made, as well as all other findings in all the institutions you have supervised. First of all, I want to say that the Most Independent Lists will support your report. However, as counterpart Branko Bačić referred to the work of almost all port administrations, I will not now analyse those irregularities that have been identified. I just want one more time to plead on all of you to actually change the practice in our work because almost all of our discussions are constructive and quality, but without any conclusions and recommendations for the work of these state administrations, so I will repeat our appeal once again that all the irresponsible directors in the various institutions in the Republic of Croatia are one way brought to the Croatian Parliament so that they will inform us of all corrected irregularities. Therefore, a report on corrected irregularities should also be introduced in the practice of the Croatian Parliament in addition to the report on audits carried out. So then we'll replace all these directors irresponsible until we're at the head of state institutions with the most professional and high-quality personnel. What I want to say about the port administrations themselves is that I am a little saddened by the fact that our largest port administrations with their biggest incomes, which are primarily made from port fees and concession fees, which are the Port Authority of Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik have not at all used the funds of European funds unlike the small river port administrations that I wish to praise this occasion. These are the Port Administration of Slavonski Brod, the Port Authority of Vukovar and Pula, which used in small amounts, but have experience in using European funds that are very valuable. This report shows that nearly 290 million kunas invested in 2013 are only 478 thousand kunas if I am not wrong in some way spent or secured from European funds. I think it's one defeating data, especially when we know how generous European funds are, especially those funds relating to transport and transport infrastructure, because we have people who are capacitated not only in port administrations but in all levels and in development agencies and in ministries. And that there's synergy in their actions, I think today we'd be in a situation where we don't have to sell out or concession state property on long deadlines. Although here is the situation we have and the situation is what I want to praise a project in Dubrovnik. Here's how much information I have the other day at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has signed a pre-contract on a concession for the construction and use of a passenger terminal in Georgia. It is a project worth almost 100m euros, it takes place in Dubrovnik. That area will be concessioned for 40 years. However, here is the regret that our Port Authority of Dubrovnik has not had the opportunity over all these years to invest more in its infrastructure, because I say that the revenue from concessions has been issued, but the profits made by foreign companies are unfortunately not spent in Croatia, that profit they make on our state property they reinvest somewhere else by other countries of the environment. Here, I thank you and another time the Most Independent Lists will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2891	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2892	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Your colleague Kristic obviously did not read the materials well because this port administration that you praise, the Port Authority of Dubrovnik, except that she signed that contract had built a major passenger terminal before, and these are projects that one government cannot do, these are projects that are transferred from one government to another and that's okay. But she also used EU funds. She just didn't get a chance to use her own money, but she used what she could.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2893	The esteemed representative Maro Kristic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2894	So we're talking about the State Audit Report for 2013 where there was no use of European funds by the Dubrovnik Port Authority, if it was used I mean not only for Dubrovnik but for all the other port administrations, I was very clear in my presentation that it was devastating how much these funds were used. And the project itself, the project has not yet been signed, the pre-contract has been signed. I hope that this adjustment process will be completed quickly and that the contract will be signed because this project will also give Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County a final home port, so far our Luka Dubrovnik has been a port of call, which means that we will get all the relevant infrastructure and hotels and trade chains and other facilities that should have one port that wants to be a home port, and this will be an additional contribution and added value to all Croatian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2895	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the next one will be taken by the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2896	I thank the esteemed Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the report on the financial audit carried out by the port administrations, finding that this report was made objectively, competently, professionally, and here is another commendation from the SDP's Club of Representatives. The financial reports and operations of the port administrations for 2013 as already said, and I think we need to repeat that in order to and remember it is expressed 6 unconditional, 7 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions. Our citizens should respect every law. The port administrations, above all, are obliged to comply with these laws, and that is something that sees the revision of whether these provisions are respected. In particular, the criteria for assessing the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports and operations, the regularity of obtaining income and the achievement of expenditure stem from the rules applicable to the operation of port administrations. Law on the navigation of ports of internal waters, Law on maritime good and seaports, Law on public procurement, Regulation on the management and transport of services of port administrations of inland water, Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations and Regulation on criteria for the fixing of port charges. There really isn't much, there aren't too many of those regulations. The report found that we therefore have 6 unconditional, 7 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions, i.e. the Rab Port Authority. The audit identified the following irregularities, some of which stand out from numerous and which are often repeated in many port administrations with financial plans, and there are significant deviations in income and expenditure that have subsequently experienced their change. In the case of accounting operations, irregularities have been identified in the recording of business events in the accounts, the conclusion of business after the prescribed time limit, the travel order records are not correct and the like. Some port administrations, past the regulations, charge port fees. This has recently been a criminal offence of illegal charges and we of our citizens in any case and the users should be protected from it and the SDP club will certainly react in the Criminal Law to protect citizens from different illegal charges that mysteriously went missing from our criminal legislation for ten years. One port administration paid off the incentives and individual employees without any criteria, without any plan, after all, without any basis. Some port administrations did not have a procurement plan, i.e. amendments to such a plan and certain port administrations did not provide a public procurement report to the authority responsible for the public procurement system. In view of the cumulative port administrations covered by this report, their revenues totalled around 885.5 million kuna and expenditures of around 218.5 million kuna. The surplus revenues of around 74,75 million kuna showed 11 port administrations and a deficit of 3 port administrations of about 100, amounting to around 8.5 million kuna. The report also identified irregularities in port administration reports which are under the jurisdiction of the County Port Administrations while reports for public port administrations are largely unconditional. Speaking of how they are, how neatly individual port administrations and how they did business and teaching what our colleague is saying on behalf of the MOST club, which I particularly liked said, and that must be our only criterion. And I just trust my colleagues from MOST who are also in their campaign, and especially now when speaking here about reviewing the operations of port administrations, in particular, it also apostropheed that people who are really, who have been given the opportunity to run the port administrations were doing it professionally, legally, and this is the best criterion that they have received an unconditional assessment. This is why the HDZ announcement in the city of Zadar is very sad, where it is publicly threatened by Mr Bilić, who runs the Zadar Port Authority, who received an unconditional assessment that as soon as HDZ comes to power it will be removed. I believe it's said in some enthusiasm and we won't allow it. As a colleague when speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Bačić, I think the point and the activity I think may be that although we are talking about the revision, the report is also about how much and what are the problems, what are the revenues and what have been the investments in our port administration. Here is very short that the Port Authority of Dubrovnik, that it has invested more than 32m euros in it, in the Port Authority of Ploče investment of 130m euros, the Port Authority of Split with a project to rebuild the infrastructure in Split is about 24m euros, the Port Authority of Sibenik, which was indeed in a catastrophic state in 2012 due to delays in work here is invested almost 2m euros, the Port Authority of Zadar if you can see it in this table, therefore, in the Port Authority of Zadar is invested no more than 195m kuna and this is something that encourages it since previous years have been talked about without much investment. Here's another, mostly not to repeat what my colleagues said before, the SDP club supports this report and thanks for such objective, objective insight and encourage and for the next work de so continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2897	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The colleague stressed that she would stand in the protection of citizens due to illegal charges and other illegal actions that are at the expense of citizens, which is good, which means it's good. After 4 years of leaving power, and even before they were in power, she even gave the deadline that 10 years ago, ten years to work, bravo, means bravo once again better than never. In the end, you'd better understand that in opposition than when you're in power. And as for Zadar and other port administrations, of course, I'm glad Zadar's developing, which has a lot of highway exits, which some other parts are forgotten. And I'm extremely glad that I'm a Dalmatian just what Zadar is developing, but you've been great, Mr. Calmeta, playing double... for your end so you have nothing to regret exactly that Zadar has stayed somewhere for, at least if you say it was less invested in Zadar, however... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's right, that's [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So according to these port administrations, what you're saying means that... A ratio of investment in Zadar and let's say in Split-Dalmatia County that, which is a much larger county to be a great proportion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Zadar alone, I'm not going to tell the County of Zadar what I'm very pleased about. So there's no... When there's no way out on the highway, it's especially nice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let's say the Cetin region today is 60 thousand people literally need to go on the macadam road and the rest of Lika and so on. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2899	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2900	First of all, your colleague, once again, I want to look back at what you specifically noticed in my presentation when I spoke on behalf of the SDP Club that this illegal... which is happening and is happening in all segments of our criminal legislation has always existed a few years ago, it really should have changed that, but since there have been significant changes in criminal law we have just noticed and I believe that we will also have support in that sense because it is something concerning every citizen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it's kind of when big changes in criminal law were happening that mysteriously was gone but I believe in whose lobby, large companies, especially teleopers and so on. But now there's a second topic, so I'm going to look back on this, and it was a long time ago when we finished the highway in that first coalition of ours since 2000, and unfortunately later, highways were also built, but three to four times more expensive than the coalition government did. Investments, you may have misunderstood, investments in the Zadar port are the largest, and I particularly apostrophe that has often been called by the former government that all projects have stopped. There has never been more investment and it is now clearly shown here from the audit report. However, despite the fact that huge investments have been approached and rationally so as not to build there a administrative building that was designed as a Tower of Babylon but something, perhaps even for the first hand, which is really appropriate but certainly will also come up with something in this sense that the Zadar port in terms of an administrative building needs and requires everything to meet the needs of passengers rather than of someone's megalomanic political ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2901	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2902	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterparts Anticevic-Marinovic, you say that the port administration of Zadar and its director Emil Bilic have received unconditional opinion so as to assess statements by the HDZ local leaders that they will be replaced, that it is said in a winning enthusiasm after the parliamentary elections. I would remind you that in 2012 you replaced over 5,000 people and among them Mr. Tomislav Batura, director of the Ploče port administration, who received an unconditional opinion in 2011. According to your judgment, you can expect us to judge you in the same way as you do by the same criteria. But I believe that every director of the port administration's work will be evaluated and based on this, on the work of the State Audit Office. And as for investments in Gazenica, you know very well when the project was agreed, when the project was designed, when loans were signed for its realization, they are at least interest for any credit that has been developed in the Republic of Croatia. But I would only remind you of the words of the then Minister in your Government, Mr. Hajdas Doncic, who said at the beginning of his term that the port of Gaženica is amoral, harmful to the state, harmful project that we should immediately break up at the beginning of the term of office. In the middle of the term of office, the minister said the project was overcharged financially. In the second half of the mandate says the port of Gazenica is needed, a good and useful project. And in the campaign for parliamentary elections a few months ago says the port of Gazenica is a great project, the port works, cruisers agree, it is a Croatian national project. Therefore, here is so much about your relationship with the port of Gaženica, which has always been one of the best projects for us in the Croatian maritime sector to be completed and which you are here, in which way you, or your Government, have treated the project of Gagenica. And while you resent our local leaders for such statements, I believe that because of their work and city administration Zadar has been declared the best point of destination in this year in the competition of very famous and tourist cities... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2903	The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond. ... Well, now I've told you you'll answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2904	In late 2003, the project was opened by the then coalition government. So that power started it and finished it. The truth is you've talked about it a lot more, we've worked a lot more. You've painted every election there, but that project was never megalomaniac, nor was it controlled by the end. And as promised, we started it and finished it. And Zadar is indeed a jewel and let me know more about it than you do. However, everyone has been invited to praise him and I believe that you have contributed precisely to that destination being the best in Europe. When you say you're going to act the same way because we were replacing people who had unconditional opinions, in other words, here you're announcing the law "eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth". And even that would not be unexpected from you, but even such a primitive law could not be applied here higher than us because the former director, the director of the Port Authority of Ploče, had not been removed but had expired his mandate. And you, Mr. Bacic, are also here, so when you speak, instead of speaking to those who got an unfavourable opinion, you're talking about those who got unconditionally saying that there's room for progress. All you have to do is try to replace this one, not just this one, but all the people who have done their job with honor, which will tell you about the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2905	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2906	Thank you very much. So here's a part of the question or replica is already answered by my colleague Bačić, but here's a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, because of this statement and attempts to practically abuse this item of the agenda, so also a general statement that it will not allow changes in the leadership of any company. Dear MPs, there is a well-known way of selecting staff as director of public institutions. I only remind you four years ago here had a memo your authority had immediately upon taking over all the administrations of public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia to all members of the Supervisory Board of Letters requesting a single point of call to Article 6 and Article 7 on the handover of authorities please act in accordance with the Law on the Privilege of Authorities. I'm asking you why you don't allow this right today or you think when you're changing, when you're changing that this authority has no right to do the same. Of course, the results will be watched, of course that will be evaluated, and whoever has the observed results this authority will take into account. However, you realize that you are finally an opposition and that we are the government and let the government do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2907	The esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2908	We let you work, but you don't work, so there aren't any, so we've been dealing with these reports since two years ago. It is necessary to distinguish a respected colleague now as a representative, to distinguish the Law on the Handover of Authorities and what acts of governance are and which you are filling seats with the shift of power. It's not questionable and you're doing it, we just want you to do it faster. And the second is, the people who came through the contest, you have to tell the difference, and that's where you need to be, that's what we finally have to agree on one time. There are always some appointed during some authorities. And the ones you named when we came who were left when you came back in 2004 you fired them first because you considered them unfair. You should finally start looking at what the criteria are, and this is the best criterion anyone's ever done. I think high-quality, good people of every government are desirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2909	The next replica will be the distinguished representatives of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said in your presentation that the mayor of Zadar, Bozidar Kalmeta, and the vice president of the Croatian Democratic Community, announced the shift of the director of the Zadar Port Authority, Mr Bilic, in a pre-election effect. I disagree with you. I don't think that's said in the effect, that it's a carefully designed plan, because in October 2015 Mr. Kalmeta took me to the City Council session when I invited him to come with me to the port of Gaženica because he bypassed both the ministers and the port of Gazenica, because this government opened the port of Gaženica in July two thousand and therefore the port of Gaženica was put on the market. He said, quote, "I will go to Gazenica after 8 November and be assured that Bilic will not meet me there." Thinking of the director of the Zadar Port Authority. So, it's the first time that this is the first time in a way that you publicly publish and announce shifts, we just don't know that we're going to see, so in the future, whether it's the reason for the change is the fact that it's the director who got the unconditional opinion of the audit and the business, so it's impeccable. Or the reason for that lies in the fact that in three years this government has invested four times more than the HDZ government has invested in this project. In particular, 807 million kuna, and perhaps the real reason is that there was an audit of the project where the only terminal that was left to build was down 300 percent compared to the first planned megalomanic project that we were used to from the respected Minister Calmeta in his term and in road construction and in some other projects according to the account of the one, I drink half of that old proverb, I'm giving half of it. I think this third is actually the real reason. He challenged the project despite the fact that it should be a project that is the generator of economic development. However, the obvious reason for this lies in some commissions or some of the deals that will ultimately not be realised because this project should be completed and will be completed thanks to the previous government of Mr Milanovic but in real terms because it is paid by Croatian citizens. And the new project meets all European standards entirely, only I say it's 300 percent cheaper than what Calmett and his suite imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2911	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2912	Dear colleagues, I wish I were right, but I'm afraid it'll be sooner if you're right. Unfortunately, here I am, or I don't know or, fortunately, I've been involved in politics for 16 years. Until then, I've been a lawyer for 20 years, and then I want to believe that things aren't so black and that reason and argument will prevail.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2913	And the last replica of those respected representatives of Hope Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to refer to some parts of my colleague Anticevic's debate. We would agree at the HNS, myself personally, that it is absolutely unacceptable for certain port administrations, in this case some of them, or one of them, to get an unconditional opinion, to actually work against the law, illegally, and that the founders of these port administrations and it is known who should indeed act or do something to exert pressure or to change the situation quite specifically. Otherwise, if such things are repeated, then the only way to do so is to not only rely on the possible State Attorney's Office or someone else to intervene on such an audit but also to know what action it is. But what's now in this debate has happened in these replicas, which is that it's not really talking about the revision anymore, it's talking about who should be replaced and how. I think that if all the authorities so far and most in power were colleagues from the HDZ that all the authorities so far respected the opinions of the audits, and especially institutions, institutions that were under review, means all the negative things that were perceived to have been corrected over the years, we probably wouldn't have anything to talk about today. So we should focus more on all of us insisting together that, regardless of the political colors, everyone works according to the law and legally, and less on who was better or worse because here's the receipt of circumstances, it happened that it's precisely from some areas and areas where there's a certain option in power that some of the institutions have been audited. What I just wanted to draw attention to some major projects were not realised but Mr. Bačić also knows because I have to look back briefly knows that for many of these projects and the efficiency of the port administrations, it is actually wrong that for many years neither the former government nor the previous government had passed a Law on maritime goods and seaports that should significantly speed up investment in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2915	Thank you. She'll answer with respect, and she hasn't answered. Okay. The next individual, we are now at an individual debate, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2916	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are considering a report for 14 port administrations out of 29 how old the Republic of Croatia was in 2013 or perhaps 33 as Mr Bačić claimed. And unfortunately, what is important is that this report covers the operations of port administrations from 3 years ago and I think that in the future such important materials should come more up-to-date for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. And with regard to the financial operations of the port administration, the State Audit, as you have heard, issued 6 unconditional opinions, 7 conditional opinions and 1 unfavourable opinion, which is about 2 to 3 in terms of conditional and unfavourable opinions. The audit identified irregularities and failures in almost all segments of business relating to the internal control, planning, accounting, income, expenditure, programmes and projects and public procurement procedures. Opinions and findings in most port administrations are not satisfactory regardless of the type and severity of the failure. But this report, of course, will be accepted because it reflects the real state of financial operations in these port administrations that experts in whose expertise and objectivity do not question. But what I would like to particularly point out to the Croatian public is that when we talk about the business of port administrations, we must make it clear that these are administrations in state and county ownership and their property is the property of the Republic of Croatia. And this property is extremely significant. Only these 14 port administrations own property slightly less than 4 billion kuna, i.e. 3 billion 993 million kuna, and precisely because of this fact, I believe that this revision raises the question of how this great capital of our country is actually managed. If it is to judge by the audit report, the conclusion is that this large capital of the Croatian state is managed well and such large capital actually generates small income. In 2013, the total income of the port administrations was 284 million HRK 660 thousand. The donations were 99 million and 700 thousand kuna, making their own incomes 184 million and 965,000 kuna. That's exactly what we don't want to happen in the management of our state property. Because this wealth should certainly be at the service of the citizens, at the service of all the users of the services but it must be useful both to the budget of the port administration and to the state budget because they have allocated significant resources for the implementation of these projects. Therefore, the operations of port administrations should be rationalised by their administrations, i.e. directors must look for a way to effectively earn, how to put all the assets provided for in the economic activity into office, more investment in development, more quality and more detailed planning of what colleagues have talked about before, because these projects are not planned well so that deadlines are breached and there are significant financial costs and ultimately a reduction of benefits. And what matters is what is very important for such projects that they must ultimately be self-sustainable. In the follow-up of my presentation, I would refer to the port administrations on the inland waterways. And when we talk about them, it is important to point out that the former Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion to the President of the Croatian Parliament on this financial report or revision of these financial reports. The Government then held that the report should separately observe port administrations on the inland waterways and port administrations located at sea and that is to say that part of the work of these port administrations, structure and the legislative framework in which they operate cannot be seen as a unique whole. In this regard, we can actually conclude that this very former government is contradictory to itself because it created itself this problem four years ago and abolished the Internal Navigation Authority and attached the Maritime Administration. Although Croatia is a Danube country, the Croatian network of inland waterways is now unfortunately completely unused. This network of inland waterways should be and represent a significant part of Croatia's national wealth, and therefore we need to approach Croatia's internal waterways in an extremely meaningful and rational way in future development and water management, in this sense, think of internal waterways. But due to the fact that both the Adriatic and Mediterranean countries have both been oriented by the sea and maritime transport, internal navigation has in the last four years had secondary importance in policy implementation and thus a low level of priorities in the realisation of the plans and achievement of the objectives. So the situation in this sector is significantly worse than in our environment and mainly in EU countries. Within some port administrations, there are large economic areas that can be used to cover burdens but also to develop industry. It is precisely those areas in which the state has invested significant State resources and needs to build its investment future and that economic zone in the port area should be made available immediately to industrial, energy and service capital in order to place state assets in the role of public interest. Thus, port administrations and local self-government would acquire a source of income to finance their own business as well as to build port buildings from their jurisdiction. I will give an example of the port administration of Slavonski Brod, which has invested significant resources in the formation of an economic zone at Slavonski Brod port. The area now has 100 hectares of size also found a good part of investors who want to invest in the zone and pay the cost of concession fees. However, we have witnessed one bad example that a private capital investor for a very valuable project has been trying to obtain a building permit for years. In the development of the project, a local authorisation was issued at the end of 2013 but which contained illegal provisions in its content, which the investor pointed out to the competent ministry with a proposal to remove these illegal provisions from the local authorisation to which the ministry had been deafened, investors launched an administrative dispute and after 2 years in January 2016 a recent verdict was adopted in which the claim was fully accepted. And the site for the construction of the facility was prepared, the environmental impact study passed a public debate, the private investor invested significant funds in the development of his project and what is important meant to the state was paying a concession fee for 5 years and basically that state did not allow or make it difficult for him to build his building. It is about the construction of a 500 megawatt thermal power plant and the title of the project would be done within the economic zone by the Bioethanol factory and the livestock food plant, and it is also important to note here that the realization of the project expects numerous benefits for the local community and one of the poorest counties of the Republic of Croatia. The city of Slavonski Brod is expected to open hundreds of jobs, as well as the 15km environment would get cheap heat energy, increase the necessary for road and rail transport, increase the annual stock congestion, engage significant agricultural areas for the needs of the Bioethanol factory without talking about a significant increase in the accompanying and service activities that come with these mega-projects. We regret that the past government did not support this project because it is certainly a strategic project and hope for the recovery of the county's economy with the lowest GDP in the country. I therefore call on this Government of the Republic of Croatia to include more in this project as well as other projects in port administrations, to speed up their realisation and to take advantage of the best resources it can and thus ensure that the revenues of the port administrations can be paid by their own incomes, by the commitments they are in charge of, to settle their costs within the port infrastructure and to build a new one. And it will certainly contribute to the great benefits of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2917	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2918	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cosic, you have rightly separated the business of port administrations from those of the sea. So it's completely two separate activities, which is why the ministry also had two administrations in its time, one for the maritime companion for internal navigation. And this interior navigation administration took great care and care of ports, river ports in Croatia. In this way it was abolished and you know it very well and it is part of your work, the Waterway Maintenance Agency has been abolished and the agency has been a potential investor for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Sava River without which there is no good and quality port of Slavonski Brod. And the other thing, the fact is also that the port administration itself, which operates on the principle of coastal use and that it does not have, on the other hand, in the back of the entrepreneurship zone, can not even realise from the large capital that is over 3 billion assets of port administrations, more revenue than 280 million kuna, and if we subtract the donations you mentioned, that is, 150 million kuna, or 110 million kuna. So such a large, so large property, which is in which the port administration manages, cannot even achieve higher income if it relys only on the use of the coast, but what you said must develop an entrepreneurial zone. That's why I have to say it's a miracle that the former government has stopped so to say, it has stopped a major gas thermopower plant project in Slavonski Brod, or in the port area of Slavonski Brod's Port Authority. That because of the conditions that were in the location permit, the investor had to go with the right to a claim which, after 2 years, seemed to have been adopted in January this year, which you yourself said. However, for 2 years they have been irrevocably lost. Because if it had been fully responsible for the investor at the time, I am sure that today we would already be witnessing significant works in the Luka Slavonski Brod, i.e. in the area of the port administration, and thus a large number of jobs could be opened in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2919	Thank you. Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Pero Cosic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2920	Thank you, Mr. Bacic. In fact, the state of the inland waterways you know for yourself that it is disastrously bad, it has deteriorated significantly in these 4 years, no funds are invested in maintenance of waterways, projects in port administrations have been reduced, resulting in, of course, the reduction of shipowners and everything else, outdated machinery both for the maintenance of rivers and port facilities because they have nothing to do. That happiness or the idea of building a 100-hectare zone in Slavonski Brod, where the port would have not only transit cargo but that the port would have its own burdens which would then, which could be distributed further, would also be totally stopped. And you can think of what several hundred jobs would be directly generated by this thermal power plant with its heat by-products, and even in this project it is mentioned that this project would solve and protect the environment. In fact, that money could be used to heat up oil for the refinery that is now being used as a mule. So I say, a lot has been stopped, two years have passed, new developments in the energy market are happening, but here's the luck of how much communication is being made in our city and in the county that the investor hasn't given up on that project. Of course, there will probably be some redesign of this project and that this project will go with all of what, following the content that is planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2921	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2922	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Ćosic, we have heard here that we have 6 unconditional opinions, 7 conditional and one unfavourable. The Rab port administration is an example of how you can't work. But we also have port administrations that have received unconditional opinions and I will list here three: Osijek, Vukovar and Slavonski Brod. Unfortunately, three Slavonian ports with no clear visibility that they specialize in, so it turns out they're each other's competition. We must have a clear strategy or narrow speciality as soon as possible so that at least a little repair of the economic picture of Slavonia that has long been on its knees. Removal of all administrative barriers starting from local to national level, which is why we are eager to wait for investments that could be useful for the opening of new jobs, here I am particularly referring to the port of Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2923	Thank you. The honourable representative Pero Ćosic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2924	Thank you. What happened in Rab, the colleagues said, the report said, it happened three years ago, and I hope the situation is quite different now. But what I would really point out is the need for the Ministry to more often control the operation of port administrations, we have internal controls and in such problematic port administrations, or when negative opinions are obtained, whether state audits, whether internal controls require these port administrations to enter special attention and maybe every two, three months to control their business, to send a report on it. And that our ports aren't categorized, they're not specialised in certain burdens, probably because there's a shortage of goods on the market and there's one port competing with one another. We have the port of Vukovar and Osijek that are very close and they fight for their own, each fighting for their own burden because there is not in the back of some, for these transit burdens because there is no back-up of its burden. I think we should definitely bring a single price list that will be competitive, meaning on the European market in these loads, from that and that these ports specialize because they would reduce costs, means the purchase of equipment and all that is necessary for the manoeuvre of these ports. And I think that, that these ports have to be categorized because 15 years ago I witnessed one visit to a man, the director of Duisburg, the largest river port that has said that they must, must be determined for which market they are, because they are too close and if they are competition with each other, they will not be competitive for transport, for unloading and loading, means load manipulation. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2925	Thank you. The next individual debate is that of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2926	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. We have before us a report from the State Audit Office for the business of 14 ports. And even though that's for 2013 I think we should be more here in the hall but also that the public's interest in this topic is very much there. Because not only is it 284 million kunas that these administrations had in their business and we know that... interests in the transparency of business and the legality of public money spending for each kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think we should commend all those port administrations that got the unconditional opinion of the state audit, and I think that's the way to do it in the future. And, of course, those who have not received the unconditional opinion should see whether the recommendations of state audits have been followed, whether they have changed and what other state bodies have done for those who have received a negative opinion where certain illegalities existed. It is inconceivable to me and us in Croatia that a public state institution does not record its revenues and expenditures, that it does not publish them in public documents and that it behaves automatically during the year, because it may happen in business that you have some extraordinary income, and the same revenues in changes and additions of plans and reports do not fall into the same. Which is just one thing that you can't afford when it comes to public money. Of course, it is necessary to see what happened through public procurement projects because it is inconceivable to me that it is not listed in the report where this happened that after the public tender of the selected bidder changed the terms of the contract, additional works that exceed 27% of the basic amount of the investment were contracted. If we were somewhere in the local administration or regional self-government only for 2700 kuna, the state institutions would intervene and there would certainly be a stop to this investment and the responsibility of the person. So I am also interested in us from the Croatian Peasants' Party for which the investment is concerned and why it came about and if there was anything illegal about it, or if there was anything he did to correct it. Of course the ports are both the first destination and the first contact with Croatia. Many tourists come to the Adriatic, so there is growing river tourism, continental tourism. The question is, how was it managed by public money? We see that there were irregularities, but the question is what about projects that would contribute to the modernisation of the same ones so that guests would have that memorial they have in their countries and that we would be competitive with other tourist destinations, and we all swear that our desire is to develop tourism because it is generously filling the Croatian budget. And I believe that there should also be places for ports on rivers especially for those who have received unconditional opinion, which is Slavonski Brod, Vukovar and Osijek and I congratulate them on that. Although according to Vukovar we should have a special pitet as we all want and publicly show, the port of Vukovar is in a difficult situation and it is urgent to find strategic partners who would have a load there, a load of goods and solve the reception of guests of transit tourists and surely that the town of Slavonski Brod deserves better attention and port of Slavonski Brod. Because it was announced in this campaign that the wateriness of the Sava River would be resolved, because there is a 4km-seded barrier that takes a million and a half kuna. The former minister in charge of the area has pledged to deal with it. Unfortunately, it is not, and I am not saying that it is necessary to resolve the wateriness of the Sava River to Sisak and Zagreb, which is what is in the plans. And of course for us is a special interest in the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, where, within the framework of the Danube Strategy and the countries of the region and Croatia, we propose this project as a strategic project and I believe that it will be found in the coming years as a strategic project that will contribute to the development of the Slavonia economy, the development of agriculture and we insist on it. Of course, we need this report to teach ourselves where it was wrong, but we are also interested in what the institutions have done to correct these irregularities, so in all the following reports, I think it should be contained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2927	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2928	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable and honourable representative. You mentioned one moment in your presentation of projects, programs and doubts about where money and funds went. The commission's report mentions the Rijeka Port Authority. It is mentioned that the revision has identified several gaps and this is during the programme and project "Gate way" project that you know, which was also started with World Bank loans with the natural guarantee of the Croatian government, the Croatian state. However, what is planned with the dynamics planned has not been done or done. They were works to restore port infrastructure, substructures, collapse, construction of warehouses and docks and supply of equipment to protect the environment. That was the intention of course to increase transport in the port of Rijeka. Why is the port of Rijeka important? It is the beginning and end of the pan of the European 5B corridor. So, it's transporting goods from the Far East to Middle Eastern Europe is 2200 miles shorter than transporting horns to the same destination through North Atlantic ports. And we might be able to do that, but there's another problem. A low-level railroad, so the low-level railroad wasn't built. You are here to mention the date of 2004 and the exact truth is in 2002 when the Hungarians offer, seek, beg the concession over the Rijeka port for 30 years and build the river range Rijeka – Budapest. It's a strategic mistake. It was an unrepeated and irreparable strategic error. Because you know that this moment the transport of goods from the Far East is carried out through the port of Piraeus, so the Serbian railways to Budapest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2929	Yes, time has gone a long way, and you will be sure to hear from your colleague Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2930	Thank you, dear colleague Kirin, thank you for your replica. I fully support your debate that without strategic projects, without the development of ports and the equipment of the same ports, as well as connecting ports with roads, railways and all others, we cannot expect Croatia to be competitive on the market both in terms of the economy, the development of the economy, the creation of a positive business environment, and the demanding tourist market where it is certainly important how our ports are equipped, how our employees of these ports treat guests and how they manage that money. We are in favour of these investments, especially for natural investments on the Adriatic, but also for investments in the continental part for the development of river ports because there is always a chance for the development of river transport of goods, but also for the recently coming river cruisers and bringing guests to Slavonia and Baranja. And there's also a chance that we can sell on the threshold the products of our family farms and I believe that we will all agree and support such projects in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2931	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2932	Here are the thanks of the President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to the audit report on river ports. In fact, the Port of Osijek and Vukovar river ports received an unconditional opinion indicating the legal spending of budget funds. The port administration of Slavonski Brod received an unconditional opinion but noteworthy that there were irregularities in the costs of the team, I quote: "The revision identified an irregularity relating to the costs of the team did not affect the expression of a different opinion." The port administration of Sisak received a conditional opinion, and because of this, I quote: "The port administration does not issue travel orders for official travel to the director, which is why travel order records do not contain data on all official travels and does not keep records of the use of the official vehicle." Since the irregularities in the travel orders and costs of the team are always unacceptable to the director and in these cases I believe it is necessary to examine the responsibility of the director of the port administrations in Sisak and Slavonski Brod. As I come from Osijek, I would refer to the work of the Port Authority of Osijek. I am pleased to see the positive audit report for the Port Authority of Osijek, but I find it inadmissible to officially close the Port Authority of Osijek. Luke Osijek and permission to enter a waterway state from the mouth of Drava in Danube to Osijek. It is important to stress that Luka Osijek is managed by the Port Authority of Osijek on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and it has given Luci Transzit d.o.o. a concession of 30 years for the performance of port activities. And when you give someone the concession they pay neatly, then you have to provide them with working conditions, and the minimum condition is that the airworthiness from Danube to Osijek is watery, right? Problems Luke Transit d.o.o. Osijek is a blockage and closure of Luke Osijek, which in the meantime is partially open. It is opened when the rain is falling or the water is high and it is closed when the waterfall falls to zero centimetres in the horizontal place of Osijek. Luka Transit d.o.o. as a concessionaire who regularly pays a concession fee to the State to carry out port activities suffers more than one million damage and threatens to bankrupt that otherwise profitable company and to leave more than 60 workers to the Employment Office. Also, the problem is the ban on extracting sand from the port pool and the waterway from the mouth of Drava in Danube to Osijek, the slow implementation of competitions for sand extraction. Then one absurd, meaning imports of sand, especially from Serbia that Serbia is extracting from the Danube, which is a river border with Croatia and we are forbidden to extract sand from the same river, and the lack of preventive sand extraction so that the port does not come into this issue of airworthiness. The concern of the previous river navigation authorities has also led to the following problems, the stalemate of the construction project of the Port East in Vukovar, the halt of the construction of a terminal for dangerous cargo in the Luka Slavonski Brod, the failure of the master plan for development of Luke Sisak, a stalemate in the construction of a freight terminal in Luci Osijek, a standstill in the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, a halt in the waterway regulation of the Sava River, so that the ports of Sisak and Slavonski Brod have basic conditions for work. And with minimal interventions in the waterway, waterways could also be provided for river cruises to Zagreb i.e. To Rugvica. Because as we know, the gauze of river cruisers is 70cm, unlike the cargo facilities whose gauze is about two meters. And the ever-returning of the river navigation sector. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2933	Thank you. We have one replica of distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2934	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've made a good point of your colleague Radić's lack of care on the waterways in our rivers, and we can clearly talk about carrying the responsibility of the port captainship, who along with the agency for the waterways of our rivers have not taken a step in the past four years, but perhaps even before in order to maintain the wateriness of the roads on our rivers. But what was in the previous law was a ban on the exploitation of mineral raw materials in our rivers and that contributed to importing gravel, sand and stone even from neighbouring countries. It is estimated that 5 billion kunas of imported goods have been imported in recent years on, say, the shares of Corridor VC from Republika Srpska and Serbia, Hungary. From everywhere, we import gravel and sand as if we don't have one of our own. We signed last year's Declaration on the airworthiness of our rivers and Neretva and Sava and Drava, all of this is abandoned. When in Osijek you can't overload what you think is simply Drava's fleet to, say, Koprivnica where it should be watered on all the declarations? How's Sava's airworthiness? The experts talk big about the need to build the dikes. The question is whether or not we're going to build dikes to the sky or we're going to clean up the trough of our rivers. Nature's protectors prohibit the exploitation of mineral raw materials. So let's call it the cleaning of the trough for the wateriness of the road, and it'll be all right, it won't be the collapse of the Transit port in Osijek, it won't fail in the boat, it'll be the waterway and Sava, there'll be loads of cargo, and the cheapest transport is by the waterways of our rivers and ships.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2935	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivan Radic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2936	Nothing, thank you very much. I agree with Mr. Djakic. That's exactly what I said. It is inadmissible that the river is unmanned, meaning that there is limited airworthiness because sand is not extracted and sand is imported from Serbia at the same time as counterpart Djakic said for the purposes of building Corridor VC. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2937	Thank you. And the last individual debate is the distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2938	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues. It's late. I'm not going to rely on the review report on what the predecessors said. I'm going to try to shorten the debate so I don't take the time. The State Audit Office has audited 14 port administrations. The verification covered the credibility of financial reports on whether these financial resources were used only to achieve the objectives set by the work programme and the financial plans as well as the regularity of the execution of other investments. The revenues were 213 million if we were to count donations, then 284 million kunas and about 218 million kunas were to be spent. This shows that small revenues are available in the light of such assets or the value of maritime goods. The State Audit Office expressed an unfavourable opinion that HDZ colleagues enjoyed to be run by SDPs, so I won't talk about it. And he came out of seven conditional opinions, out of those seven conditional opinions, I will refer to that conditional opinion issued at the Dubrovnik Port Authority. In the last term, I was a member of the board of directors so that I was very well informed about what was going on in that board. You made two remarks, one relating to the report on the work of the concessionaries that he never did, the plans of the work of the concessionaries and the result achieved as not shown. However, if we scratch a little deeper, this is about taxi service and travel agencies and laundry agencies. So that's the numerical data that's very hard to show. Second, the second observation that he wasn't the director of the former didn't run the mileage. The former director signed a contract with the furniture before 2012 had a strong financial contract, i.e. a contract to be respected. So the new set had to honor him, couldn't take him down. And according to that contract that he made before with the previous administration when during the HDZ rule he had a higher salary and a variety of bonuses that I do not now count against the director we chose, so we did not replace him but only after the term of office chose another. As far as the Ploca Port Authority is concerned, as I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County here, it was in discussion on behalf of the club, my esteemed islander and counterpart Branko Bačić said that the Croatian government has, through various staffing, led to the extension of the project of the second phase for Luka Ploče. It is a terminal of scattered burdens and the project has led to some changes in the project, so the project was consulted and it was going to be because of these quantities that would be poured into the project that some savings were being made by the consolidation of the ground, to get some savings in the business. The other thing he was late for was making a new trafo station. And the third thing, the procedure of public procurement was delayed by the concessionaire and the day of the day, now I talked to the director not yet received, had not completed the public procurement procedure on the funds to be installed for the operation of the port. Is there going to be a penalty what you're saying that I'm not sure and whether the value of the savings will cover the value of those pens and I can't say it because I don't have the data, but what I'm worried about? You said that our government didn't invest, didn't recognize that it was a maritime good and river good, or river ports, we didn't recognize them as valuable resources and we didn't invest enough in them, so among other things, a 120 million-euro investment was now made in Ploče that you started but we continued. In Dubrovnik is now a 32m-euro project with counterpart Kristic saying it was signed before a 100m-euro investment contract, 100m euros for a new ferry terminal, the value of construction works is about 60m euros, and the value of equipment will be around 40m euros. A new terminal in Split has invested 24m euros, investing 150m euros in Zadar. What am I worried about? I am concerned that these large investments are later not returning to their revenues as determined by the audit, not paying back enough funds to cover credit debts. Only the Dubrovnik Port Authority returns about 65% of the loan funds, and these others are at a level of 10 to 20%. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2939	We have one replica of the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2940	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Penic, just two three things. So, all of these projects that you mentioned also Dubrovnik port, which refers to the construction and reconstruction of the Dubrovnik coast, and Pločan port, and Rijeka port, and Zadar port and Sibenik port other than Split port, which is now being built external berths for the consent of the cruises was agreed long before the Government of the Kukuriku Coalition. You know this very well, and the only thing that has been agreed on are the external links in Split and everything else has continued unfortunately slowed down, unfortunately it has slowed down. As for the river ports, you heard it from our other colleagues, nothing was done there. A project to rebuild the Sava River has been stopped, which is tragic. Nothing's been invested in the Drava River. Luka Osijek, Luka Slavonski Brod, Luka Sisak and Vukovar nothing is done you have heard. It's just that these activities are absolutely stopped. And otherwise you can't invest in infrastructure, so it's a port infrastructure, whether it's an air transport infrastructure, whether it's a road that can't be measured by usability parameters as other projects. In particular, investment in infrastructure is expensive and cost-effective and is the basis for the development of other activities which, when they are realised, earn their income and their income precisely thanks to that infrastructure. If we were to measure the construction of highways only per toll then we would never build highways but toll revenues, from building highways in successful tourist seasons that were supposed to be such good tourist seasons. Therefore, we can not only measure the property of the port administration through the income of the use of the coast charged by the port administration or concessionaire, but rather about how much this port now that it has a great infrastructure can establish an entrepreneurial zone and there some other activities are happening, where Col. Ćosic was great at saying that when we built a port infrastructure, we must establish an economic zone and there, because of the proximity of traffic of the cheapest traffic, we must achieve profit in a particular port, in a certain port administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2941	Thank you. The honourable representative Davor Penic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2942	Comrade Bačić, obviously we're just saying the same thing, and we're just interpreting it differently. But I was not talking about river ports and I am sorry that the economic activity of the Republic of Croatia is not so powerful that we can invest in everything. I said I was worried that those where we invested, not saying that port administrations, or ports multipliers of the development of their environments, it's unquestionable, it agrees with you, I was talking about where we invested most, let's say in Zadar we have the smallest return. It's only now in this year that we've got a few returns because the port's on its way. So we didn't get along, I was talking about one thing you guys did about the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-18-0.u2943	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will meet again here tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and we will discuss the report on the effectiveness of the management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia. And at 12 o'clock, I remind you, there will be a vote on the debated points. Thank you very much. Have a nice and pleasant evening. The following is the report on the financial audit carried out by the Port Authority. The report shall be submitted to the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the financial audit carried out by the Port Administrations is hereby adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. 114 votes for, 1 abstention. I find that most votes have concluded that it was proposed by the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee. This ended today's vote, and we return to a previous point, of course, which we have not finished.
