ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7105	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you all to sit down while we focus in the morning, it's already a question later. Here we go to the session. I ask Mrs. Honorable Representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7106	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HRID Club and Independent Representative Sandor Juhas regarding yesterday's current event of the government's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7107	Thank you. Dear Representative Radimir Cacic came in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7108	That pause, regulation, phone session, abandoning 8 companies from the strategic list. The theme is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7109	The Honorable representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7110	... Excuse me. [[Speech is not enabled.]] So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSLS Club and Independent Representative Gordana Rusak regarding the structure of Croatian exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7111	The Honorable Representative of Stipe Petrina. We're warning you that you are, you've all forgotten to suggest what duration, but fine. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSU Club and the Independent List Stipe Petrina is a subject of privatisation and subsidies from the state budget of Brodosplit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7113	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7114	... I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club for 10 minutes to say our position on the amendment of the decision to determine companies of strategic and special interest that was taken yesterday at the government's telephone session. [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7115	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7116	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the same reason, the HNS Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7117	Dear Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7118	I'm looking for a break to turn against the intelligence underground that, if necessary, protects national interests and those who dare to obtain documentation that is protected under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7119	Thank you. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes, at 9.50. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Here I would like to ask the esteemed representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the HRID Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7121	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday's government phone session is the reason we're looking for a break. There is a malignant disease that all Croatian governments have suffered from, and it is called privatisation at the expense of the state. And as soon as someone gets stuck in a government chair, he becomes sick of the disease and starts making moves to do the privatisation in Croatian. And as we watch in the media yesterday, Denmark announces that it becomes a 100% ecological country in our country, we sell out what little remains of strategic property. Phone call to sell well-being state-owned companies, so it's completely inappropriate and unserious. And I don't want to de-polomeze about it at all today because we've pollemized it yesterday as a strategic firm, so that's what we said yesterday. And according to me, ACI Marine is a strategic firm. So is the next step of the eBay sale? Will the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister call his wife and say, hello, listen, I'll sell the apartment, the garage, three mornings of the country, and they'll say more, but don't ask me who I'm selling because I can't tell you. And I will remind you again that we are looking for an extraordinary session of the Parliament on what will be sold and by what methodology. And I call on everyone in the Parliament to discuss this, to discuss here among Croatian MPs, and to give MPs the opportunity to make a decision and then commit that decision to the government, not that each government is working on its own, without a parliamentary debate, without the public in any strange urgency. So what's the emergency? What's with the secrecy? Our club is asking questions over and over again, and we don't get answers to these questions over and over again. What will be privatized by what criteria? Whom in secret is sought for land and for which shall be sown. Why is the amendment of the GMO law why the government sent this amendment by emergency procedure? We haven't received a specific answer to any of the questions so far. So if you work in the interest of the people as to how to speak, then why don't you give these same people concrete answers to who's hiding from whom? Is the Prime Minister hiding from the Deputy Prime Minister? Are the ministers hiding from each other? Is the government hiding from the public? And how do strategic firms get wiped off the list of strategic firms overnight? I see that apart from the malignant disease syndrome of Croatian privatisation, we have another syndrome that is still 918. Stjepan Radic said that Croatian politicians like to come out like geese in the fog. We can also ask why the government is making a decision when individual representatives of the Most yesterday said they would not support the decision. As far as I can see, some MPs from the Patriot coalition. So is this theater of absurdity over? And to repeat, we are not against the debate, but we are against the secret decisions of hidden intentions. So the Croatian public must know the truth or we will once again know this new wave of privatisation without openness again, again without transparency sink this time into the fungi from which we no longer return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7122	Thank you. I would like to ask Honorable representative Radiir Cacic to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the SDSS Club and Reformist, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today probably, my predecessor and I are probably just part of a series of club representatives who are going to talk today about a subject that no doubt shows that it should have a great weight and that it deserves to be talked about. When we talk about billions, it's never supposed to come out. I am neither a person nor a party who is a pro-business party, which is a party oriented towards the entrepreneurship of Reformists, projects I run, such a party profile, that we are inclined and always ready for a decisive maybe, not to make a decision, not to do anything, not to be such a man and that is not a profile that fits the appeal of the habitat. On the contrary, I'm willing to make decisions but not bullshit, not bullshit, not bullshit, not work by heart. I'm not so that, whether it's demagogy or really some people think they're attacking these moves on the basis of the best Croatian company, as soon as someone says the best Croatian state-owned companies and among them are a Petrochemy, I think at that point he discredited himself. So that's bullshit. Not even Croatia's bank some flowers and ACI is far from what it should be, and Croatia Airlines is not what it should be. So it's far from the best Croatian companies. Some of them, yes. Why? Because they are not led by Croatian politics, Končar for example. The Croatian state and Croatian politics with Končar have nothing to do with it and therefore it is a great company and there is absolutely space to think about quality of it on the market. But that's not the point, it can't be telephone, it can't be without a public debate, it can't be without a public opinion and a clear what I'm analysis, which is the basis, why it's going in some direction, and then, it's a failure of the last government that it didn't do, Petrokemija was supposed to sell when I was in Moscow, right now, 200 billion dollars were the basis of ours, after which she made 200 million more losses, without reason because of political cowardice it wasn't done, no. Okay, no, but sometimes it's better to be a political coward than to do stupid things, no. Here we need to talk about ACI absolutely because it is a location on the essence of the monopoly and one strong position potentially for the development of nautical tourism and tourism is 18% of Croatia's GDP. We're thinking about whether or not the concession, whether or not the release of funds, whether or not you're managing, okay. It's too serious to put it on the market because we thought of it today, so every jerk can think of it, there's no such stupid guy in this country who can't sell ACI, no, we haven't found such fools yet. Port of Rijeka, what is she today, what will be tomorrow? Finally, let the government wet their strengths and wits and abilities and courage whatever you want to get into the project of the low-level railroad. It's a very different port, it's quite different values, we're talking about other gauges. About Croatia Bank we have nothing to talk about, Končar can market, there are things that are clear, right? Yeah. Petrochemy, I've said all about it, regrets God's comment. The sub-level is a topic, whether it's a lever that the state can and wants to think about tomorrow or whether it's a place to love political local or wider like it has been for decades, so we want to keep it that way. That's the darkness. And there might be some leverage in one development tomorrow. Yeah. I wouldn't think of it. So, once again a public debate in the Parliament, clear analysts and then we can cool heads without political demagogic prejudice to enter into debate and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7124	Thank you. I would like to ask Honourable representative Gordana Rusak, on behalf of the HSLS Club and independent representative Gordana Rusak, to explain the reasons for the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to look back today on the structure of Croatian exports driven by the recent data, or information recently presented by the governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr Vujčić. I have tried many times to draw attention to science, knowledge and education as the only real lever of Croatia's development, and it seems to me that all of this is seen as a flossula in which the few believe. At times, however, some data confirm that without science and education there will be no progress in this country. But that's what the governor of the National Bank's records are on. He says that Croatia continues to export cheap labour and, in part, produce intensive knowledge. I would add that we are on a very good path to becoming the best exporter of young and educated people if we continue on the path we have been going for decades and then there will be no more in Croatia to create products of intense knowledge and we will no longer have any more to really export. Today we export about 5% of high-tech products to compare Hungary and the Czech Republic 15%. The data defeated itself but even more devastating is the fact that throughout all these years we had no intention of truly becoming a land of knowledge. And that today we are where we are, at the bottom of the European scales by all parameters related to the science and the export of high-tech technologies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask your attention and to listen to the following facts from UNESCO's report on science related to Croatia. So, it's not about the data that's possibly been haired because they're our domestics, but they're international. According to the capacity to retain talents, Croatia was on a ranking of 148 countries in 137 places in 2004, so to keep young educated people in 137 places of 148. And Montenegro by chance or not 81, and Albania in 93th place and now an even greater tragedy in its capacity to attract talents means not to keep them but to attract them from abroad, Croatia is on the ranking of 148 countries in a defeating 141st place. Albania at 96, Montenegro at 97 or simpler said far more favourable conditions for working have educated and talented people in Albania, Montenegro, than in Croatia. The Albanian government has purposely developed a programme to attract talent and results are visible. Therefore, it does not seem unrealistic that soon our educated and talented people will seek their jobs in Albania by fleeing from Croatia. And for Croatia, there remains an open question that human potentials should ensure exports of knowledge-based products over the years that follow. Croatia is currently funding only 175 doctoral students through the Croatian Science Foundation with four years of scholarships, far less than the number of students who go abroad from Croatia each year to doctoral studies abroad, and also much less than the number of science doctors who retire each year. The number of young researchers in the system after doctoral training is negligible. Croatia is a country where R & D isolation has been constantly falling since 2004. During this time, neighbouring Slovenia has increased its allocations in five years from 1.6% of GDP to 2.6% of GDP, and this is an interesting fact one of the biggest R & D gaps across the EU. Done at Brussels, Slovenia invests in research and development on the head of the population 4.4 times more than Croatia. And now the conclusion. This unsustainable situation in Croatia is the result of a policy of systematic neglect and underestimation and suppression of science and knowledge that seemed to be handled by all policy options, indeed all because knowledge is power. And those who have that power with them are harder to rule, they are harder to encourage the passions that will lead them away from the real problems. They question, they search for answers, they touch the core of the problem, and that's dangerous. Isn't it? It is more dangerous than to continue to remain a country that exports cheap labour and raw materials and which is therefore subdued in economic and political terms. The people subdued by the political elites, a country in whole foreign centres of economic and political power. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] For ignorance and ignorance lead us into slavery, it is time to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7126	Thank you. I'd like the Honorable Representative, Stipe Petrina, on behalf of the HSU Club and Stipe Petra, to explain the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to speak, to refer to Ms. Irene's exposure to the model of Croatian conversion only as this one is much worse, and it is about the conversion of Brodosplit. In fact, with the typical model of Croatian conversion, otherwise, as I like to say, the robbery was added to that by the state aid of a billion and a half kuna a year. So, what's this about? In 2010, the government made a decision on the privatisation of Brodosplit. Who knows how to make a boat, ladies and gentlemen, knows how to do everything and what's most important is to step into step, the technological step that my colleague Gordana was talking about. So there's both knowledge and power and all that we need to resist the challenges of this time. So, in 2010, only one bidder appeared in the competition, which is DIV d.o.o. a company that was established finds that because of its proven financial incompetence, there is therefore no which required contracts simply does not satisfy the needs of such a giant, world giant who has knowledge, tradition and great renaissance in the world of shipbuilding such as Split. So, the DIV refuses. However, it is clear that the buyer had no financial capacity or in a very small part to fulfill what was to be agreed. Despite this fact, the inconclusive fact that the DIV as such has no ability to take over Brodosplit from its 7, 7 and a half thousand new government workers in 2011 only after three months, so only after three months of formation makes the decision to give Brodosplit to the DIV. In what way? In addition to what else needs to be financed from the state budget annually, i.e. to subsidise a billion and a half kuna. A billion and a half kuna a year, with the money not to do anything Brodosplit or the new lucky man in the Croatian transformed sky, the gentleman who owned the bib of the DIV could have paid the workers to do nothing for six years. So it's clear what's being assigned here. During this sale, alleged sales by the Government of the Republic of Croatia knew well before signing a purchase contract that DIV shipbuilding as a buyer of notes was founded with a capital of 20 000 kuna, there is no way that even a small part of it would build its own fleet of ships from a restructuring programme worth 3.5 billion kuna, nor would that ad hoc company be able to do anything in the restructuring of shipbuilding. If the legal business forced the Republic of Croatia as a condition to join the EU, and then after joining the EU, it could be broken down. Namely, what do we have today? Today we have 3 years after the privatisation only confirmed what was evident before the signing of this sales contract for Brodosplit. And therefore, of the 14 ships that were to be built in two and a half years, no ship was built. That's the facts. As a result of this poor privatisation, the total income in the third year of restructuring was at 30% of the projected restructuring programme, and the loss in the previous year, i.e. in 2015 and the 14th year was as much as 40%, i.e. a total of 160 million kuna. It's a conclusion. The government of the Republic of Croatia knew or had to know that practically nothing of the contract could be achieved before the signing of the contract, thus neither the ultimate objective of the sustainability of a business system called Brodosplit. As a result, Brodosplit disappeared today from the world scene of the shipbuilding industry. The worst thing is if you lose your tradition, your staff, your knowledge and your reputation in the world. That's what just happened to Brodosplit. So what now? So it was clear that after Croatia's entry into the EU, the contracts had to be terminated and the restructuring of Brodosplit in the first place should be reconsidered in this way. What are you looking for? Emergency termination of privatisation contracts, establishment of criminal liability for all actors before and after and development of the concept of the rest of Brodosplit in possible co-operation with Uljanik. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome gentlemen from the Brodosplit Union to the gallery and, for a short time, the press has been announced for 11 hours on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7128	Thank you. I would like to ask the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Milanko Opačić to explain on behalf of the SDP club the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think it is clear to all of us now that there is no very clear majority in this House because there is no vote for the second week, there is obviously no majority in the government, because that there would not be three phone sessions in five days. So, phone sessions were held during our government only when we made decisions on the amendments, so the minister's approval could accept some Friday's amendments at the vote or if we sent planes to put out fires in one of the neighbouring countries. Such topics as the privatisation of companies that we have protected and called them companies of strategic importance cannot be brought to phone sessions. It just shows that there are no majority in the government who could vote that way. The question is, why sell companies that stand well? Which is why it's being sold, for example. The sub-level that we've recapitalized and that's standing on its feet, that's doing business in a positive way? Which is why Croatia's airlines are sold which also operate positively unlike many other airline companies that have combined all these years with other airlines so that they can survive, Croatia's airlines as one small company with good leadership in the last 4 years has actually surfaced and is doing business with the positive. The question is which citizens should be answered and whether the new owners will, for example, be able to answer. Podravka buys from our producers everything that today Podravka buys? I'm sure they won't, they'll bring their products here, our people will lose again without being able to sell anything to anyone and live off their work. What's the biggest problem is that the sale of these companies has obviously already happened. These companies have already been sold. They were sold in the last 15, 20 days when the president was selling ACI I won't speak to which countries and their presidents. The president was selling some other companies. Prime Minister Oreskovic has already sold 10,000 hectares, only looking for where he will find 10,000 hectares of the country in Slavonia. So obviously these companies have been sold politically. Maybe she sold some of Mr. Karamark's wife, too, and yesterday we talked about it through our agency and through our home friends and business. Therefore, it would be good for you to answer the Croatian citizens to whom you sold these companies because they were sold or it will remain your little secret until further notice, but not long, because it will be very soon to know who the companies were sold to. So we are opposed to this kind of privatisation, especially those companies that are doing well, which have stepped on healthy legs, which can remain in Croatian ownership which have proved to be well-run by the management. The question is whether Croatian citizens will be able to buy any shares of these companies if they decide to go to their privatisation. So there are a lot of open questions, and that's what we need to discuss here. On behalf of the SDP club, we ask that key ministers come here together with the prime minister and explain to us what is going on and in which direction the privatisation of these companies is going because this is not their private property, this is nobody's private property, this is the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and they have the right to know all the facts and all the data. It cannot be hidden in the government's telephone sessions, in this House we ask responsible people from the government to come and give complete answers to Croatian citizens. And finally, I'm curious about something else, is this decision that was taken yesterday at a phone session just the HDZ position or the position of a complete coalition that is currently held accountable by the authorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7130	Thank you. I would like to ask the honourable representative, Milorad Batinic, to explain on behalf of the HNS club, the liberal Democrats, the reasons for the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So privatisation, yesterday in the debate on the State Property Management Plan, we clearly highlighted the position of the CNS. The government needs to adopt a management plan and explain why it is selling specifically now to these companies via a telephone session. We have two levels there. A formal level means that it's practically not a job done correctly, it's not in accordance with customs I won't tell the laws but also by law. And next, we can talk about whether the names of these companies are individually what they want to do with it. First of all, let's briefly remind ourselves that we had shortly in the January presentation of the President of the current government now and in his programme, a hodogram of activities, and in the programme of the Patriot Coalition and MOST, it doesn't say anything. My colleagues and colleagues from the center to the right what happened? Is the budget charged, how full and what's the problem? We all know about the loans that have to come back, we all know what the charges are waiting for, but is that the way? The availability of property, primarily if you look at the specifics of the strategy and the law itself says very clearly what this money can do. Look at you, the vast majority of you worked in regional, local self-government, selling property exclusively dedicated revenue for development, for new investments, for new capital projects not for consumption. As regards sales specifically now Podravka was already said unfortunately back in the 20s and a few years we brought agriculture to those branches on which it is today and could Podravka as such be a driver in the northwest and even wider? Furthermore, the ACI problem wouldn't be a rush. The Law on the Sea Good, now ACI based on regulation is worth what it is and can also be a lever of development and how much will it be worth tomorrow to amend the Law on the Sea Good? Are we going to lose some of the territory that we've all been drilling into our chests for is protecting national interests? So wake up, so let's wake up now your national interest of colleagues and colleagues. Croatian airlines of course HNS is also a law that we have supported and strategy, availability, sale, one bit available to, but not what is of strategic interest for the development of Croatia. So the question arises, is being imposed simply and what is the strategic interest in the development of the Republic of Croatia? So Croatia has no development strategy. There are sectoral strategies, and unfortunately we don't know what we want in which direction. We have some goals, some fragments of goals, but essentially what do we want from our country? Our position is to sell by us here, certainly there are companies that are of strategic interest and many others will be of strategic interest until the government gives this Parliament a proposal that companies are of strategic interest which they are not. Why don't you sell some companies, for example? Losers? Well, no one's gonna buy them. Who's gonna buy losers? We give it for one kuna, but through business plan 5, 7, 10 years to see what and how it's going to be with that company. Furthermore, we will not support both colleagues and colleagues from the MOST yesterday, but I certainly support that you will insist on discussing these topics in the Assembly. I remind you of that and we will insist, but you're also the majority, you're in a position to make decisions, you have your representatives in the government and stop. This is a blurry job, this is a blurry business. Make it easier for yourself, make it easier for your voters and your souls to discuss in a transparent way here in front of the Croatian public which are the reasons for this decision by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7132	Thank you. I ask the honourable representative, Mira Bulj, to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7133	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are all talking to the left and right about the protection of national interests. All except the newly elected parliamentary representatives you have had the opportunity to protect national interests, protect the economic belt, protect the INA, protect HEP, protect all companies that were to be protected so that Croatia today will not be 300 billion kuna due, 300 thousand completed and 300 thousand unemployed. However, what everyone knew when it came to protecting national interests was what I was doing in the local community when the robberies of the Dalmatinka Auto Transport took place, the other companies in the local community, and I had the same experience because I only had my duty to tell the public to protect national interests in the INA. And everyone who could be and what was happening around INA in the previous years mostly during Eve Sanader when they sold out a strategic national firm that makes us need to increase health insurance, which is why we're being brought into this situation. You knew that all the left and the right, but you worshipped your leaders. Or what Stipe Petrina just said about the Squire of Splitski who pushed the whole of Dalmatia away. You all knew about this, however, when I told the truth and when I called on the state institutions to check Oreskovic, Petrov, Karamark, all the ministers of entrepreneurship, the economy, Mira Bulja, all the parliamentary deputies to check them out so that it wouldn't be affected as it affected the sale of national interests mainly in this case around the INA. What's going on with para-intelligence i.e. The intelligence underground of what must not naturally be brought to the public stage to distract itself, comes inquiry, my war that I was 18 years old, 5 years later, another 12 years in the army, everything is questionable? A number of documents are being drawn, which is why they are being kept secret and protected. I'm not ashamed of them because I was in the Homeland War as well as many people here on the left and right. I'm sorry General Krsticevic didn't say that to me. No manger was found some, an inspector of shipkeeping, while we fought for Croatia's free country no one is world and no one can throw a stone, he found himself called out, but he is not the poor one to blame he only got the order of one who cannot come out. I personally did not offend anyone, nor the family, nor the individual I only protected that what Ante Starcevic said to protect national interests and Dr Tudjman what he said to protect himself, not to sell in London Croatian interests to the Jews. Where did he get the courage? This is pressure on you and let's know everyone on the left, on the right, that the intelligence underground only has an interest. If you touch them, you'll have representatives coming out of you, Croatian defenders. If you are not in their step, these intelligence stakeholders will experience you defenders gentlemen and you dear friends as I have experienced. Although I am proud and I am sending a message to my children to all defenders, honest citizens, you are not afraid, you are not afraid, but, in particular, we who are in the representative body, we present, regardless of left and right, in the center, and we are fighting for interests because that is why the voters chose us. We've got defenders here, what do the defenders say? I respect them, respect them, and bow down to them. I'm really sorry that my commander here isn't, General Krsticevic, who we fought together. What he says about the hero who grew old from me who made a statement here on Mr. Andrija Mikulic. They sold out our gold for Judah's sheaths, sold out our country. And now, of course, who are to blame, the ones who defended the Homeland. We have to fight the intelligence underground, they're not sacred, and they don't care about the anthem or the hands on the heart, it's all OK. And so there should be diversity. We can fight. I call on the defenders, the people, to stand up against the intelligence underground. It's unfortunate that a journalist who mentions INA could lose his job. Let him write against me, but he can't lose his job or anyone. It's press media business. And I'm calling you again. Let's stand up against the intelligence underground. That's why, and I'm sending them a message from here. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time!]] And on behalf of the MOST Club, we will protect national interests but you will not silence us or prevent us from fighting. Because of the struggle for national interests against the intelligence underworld that made this time secret data trying to transfer things to another thing to cover it up, I'm out front, On behalf of and outside the MOST club, I'd like to invite you to come out for two minutes and tell the para-intelligence structures you won't. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7134	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7135	Thank you, dear Vice President. One charge at your expense. I mean, you interrupted me, and I mean my colleague from the SDP after five seconds of time, Mr. Bulj seeing her for 54 seconds had more, but I'd give him more, some man talking but you didn't do your job correctly, you weren't the same to everyone. Thank you. Don't do that in the future. They all need to be the same. If we tolerate about 10 or 15 seconds, let everyone tolerate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7136	I would like to thank my dear representative, Petrina. If you've heard, if you can't look at the video, I've warned my colleague Bulja after 5, 10 seconds but I can't physically, neither is it right nor anyone else. I'll just beg, you had the right to tell me the criticism. Otherwise, in the future, call on the article of the Rules of Procedure that you are saying is an injury, but if you follow my lead session, then you will see that I am giving whatever the left or right side of the assembly, some of you knew for a minute, a minute and a half. But here I'm saying, I'm not the kind of person that will physically, this is the Parliament, everyone has the right to speak, I expect that you are all adult persons, people who are aware of how much you have the right to speak and I'm not the one who takes away the word. Here I am begging for understanding and I say here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u7137	I'm sorry. I didn't see you warned. Here's an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9493	We're moving on to the session. So on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 51; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with the article... Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Minister of Management Dubravka Jurlina Alibegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9494	Good morning, Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So here are a few explanations with the draft bill amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. So, as you know, this Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials requires that the basis for calculating the salaries of officials is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision, and that decision also applies to the President, Vice-President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for this law proposes to establish that the payment of the salary of the President, Vice-President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is subject to the basis laid down in the law governing the salaries of judges and other judicial officials and which has been established for that purpose for the account of the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, and not as so far as it has been established. The manner in which the President, Vice-President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's salary is charged is proposed to determine this draft law. It is now governed by the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate in the regulations certain issues of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. By proposing this law and by amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State who have won on your benches, we are actually proposing that this law be adopted. The procedure was in an emergency procedure. Here, so much for an explanation under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9495	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, I am opening the debate, the first to come to the debate was the honourable representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, and in relation to this law, when we see several articles, and we think that it may be just a technical matter, however, it is not. We know that the constitutional foundation on which the Republic of Croatia operates is the principle of the division of power. We therefore have a legislative, executive, judicial authority and this is exactly the basis we support and we strengthen this foundation because in this relation the legislative, executive and judicial authorities are not sustainable so that the government determines the basis for neither the judges nor the Constitutional Judges and therefore the Constitutional Court's decision goes in this direction and the implementation of this law respects and discusses the Constitutional Court's decision. Not to say, the Constitutional Court is very important in the functioning and structure of our entire state because here is a very complex procedure for selecting 10 Constitutional Judges of the Republic of Croatia. I'd say if we don't choose the Constitutional Judges, if we lose the Constitutional Court, then we don't have a circled arrangement of our country. The Constitutional Court has extremely important duties, therefore, ahead of it is the assessment of the constitutionality and the law that we have here. We have therefore defined by the Constitution the Constitutional Court as a body only to question whether the laws that we are in this House are in accordance with the Constitution. Other regulations may also come before the Constitutional Court where it is then examined whether they are in accordance with specific laws as well as with the Constitution. So I don't say about the election, about certain other issues, and also lately, it seems to me, for the last few years, that's a very important issue, it's the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed rights, and it's a little bit of a situation that I think we should talk about well, and that maybe we should come up with some different solutions. The Constitutional Court has slowly appeared to us even as a certain kind of last judicial instance, which is in principle not his role as it is said in the Constitution that he also solves those decisions and individual acts of state and local authorities if these acts violate some rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. So, this has led me to find a large number of cases in the Constitutional Court where it actually solves and even from those cases where the proceedings are actually being conducted about disturbing property, the arrangements of the border and all that, I don't think that this Constitutional Court should be burdened with such matters, but that this should be done by that part of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court should really serve these things, fundamentally whether the laws are in accordance with the Constitution or not. In this way, by setting the basis for the salaries of the Constitutional Courts, we determine, so when we determine the basics and the judiciary I think it's the only correct solution, it must not be in the power of the executive authority. That's exactly what we're doing with this law today. However, what I mean is, we on certain committees mean for both the Constitution and the legislation, we have proposed that the law, despite being shorter and more complex in its scope, should go into regular procedure. Why the regular procedure? We want to give the government a chance that all of that list of coefficients based on which salaries and other officials in the Republic of Croatia are determined, that once again thoroughly analyzes it because there is indeed a series of illogicalities inside, and we think that until the second reading, some, at least those that are stricter and, for example, we have the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, Health Insurance, Employment Service, extremely important systems in the Republic, would be good if in this segment the directors of these laws had equal coefficients and not that one had, another smaller because I think they were really important tasks and there was no reason to be. And before us, I deeply believe and reform actually pays for the whole public system, because we have to say, this pay system works for a whole number of years, but what we need to do is to make sure that whoever works for his work is fair and rewarded and whoever actually is weak in the system to feel it tomorrow and on their salary. So that's the hard part of the job that's in front of the government, which is in front of the resolution ministry. I am very confident that you will carry out a good analysis because today, if we look at our entire system of public administration, I would say that inside the system there are people who may be overworked, taking parties, making a solution, and in fact it doesn't all follow pay, it's equally paid who and the one who doesn't really know what they're going to do with themselves and how they're going to spend it. Also in the public administration system we need today as many professional, quality people as possible because when we saw in some segments and these are now special jobs related to making applications for withdrawing funds from structural funds. We see that we are a very thin human being and the pay system itself, which is actually so rested on some sort of equator, however we see it today, is not stimulating that people from some private consulting houses that offer significantly higher wages to come into the system of state administration. Therefore, it is necessary to keep all of this in mind when making new laws that will regulate public sector wages, but today is not the topic to be discussed. I'm just saying it this way, it's something that's waiting for us and something that's too important for the whole of our public administration to function. We will as a club support this law, but what I think is good to go 2 readings and that already in the second reading, because technically it is very easy to do, and I know that the regulation is worth up to 30.6. and that we need to be quick, but we can be quick and actually do a very fast second reading and bring the law, and to correct some of these things that are really essentially strict. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9497	Thank you. Next in the debate, distinguished envoy Milorad Batinic is on behalf of the HNS club Liberal Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. And when it was on the agenda, we were against an emergency procedure. Now you can practically see that we can do it in two readings. Although the changes are technical, I think the law itself that speaks, and especially now that you're reading the explanation I'm going to read a few cartoons so that you don't misread the challenge of additional attention. And first of all, I would like to suggest to the ministers and associates that if they are in the argument, the assessment of the underlying issues that should be regulated by law in that section if they quoted or used the constitutional court's statement that here we believe that perhaps before, I will not say radically but something like that. Well, I'll just read some attention. Therefore, it is further stated that giving in charge of the political execution, that it directly affects the determination of the salaries of judges and priorities means that relations between the authorities are executive, i.e. politically executed and tried on grounds that are objectively unacceptable in a democratic society. Okay. More or less this is a colleague of Bosnjakovic's. However, I would draw attention to we have an adequate Croatian word executive power, an execution especially in the current atmosphere which is in the Republic of Croatia not to say since the opening of Pandora's box, mentioning the execution does not make it a good feeling. Furthermore, and I believe above all that those colleagues who have discussed, that is to say, some other changes in the coefficients on the subject of officials, so in your explanation, pay elements must be regulated by the legislator. It's totally fine. So, democratic and parliamentary procedures in a way that respects the importance of guaranteeing the stability of the judicial function, i.e. the proper professional and impartial exercise of justice, in which all elements of the judicial salaries must be appropriated to the dignity of the judicial profession and the burden of responsibility of judges. Well, that's fine. We can view it this way, but colleagues and colleagues who propose certain corrections in the coefficients of Croatian officials' salaries should remember it. And what also bothers me, I think that it is not appropriate to explain it means on the second page of this bill it also prevents a disturbance of the relationship between the Court of Justice's salary and other judicial officials who would result from the implementation of the economic policy measure, and now it is speaking further, so if the basis for the salaries of state officials were reduced. Well, aren't we all on the verge that we all have to bear burdens and economic crises and market disturbances and deficits? It is my suggestion that until the second reading you try to change this part of the sentence at least, you can't change the essence, but I also can't support this explanation because we all think in HNS that if it comes to it, and we're not far from what the situation is and what the climate is like, that we all have to bear the burden. And as I said earlier at the beginning we propose two readings for these reasons, but also although it will not be formally possible I expected certain proposals that could be discussed in parallel with this. It is also a law that speaks of the obligations and rights of state officials. Maybe until the second reading, they can get into the process and we can discuss it. If it's going to be the first reading, we'll support it, if it goes in two readings and I say I'd like to ask these corrections in nomo-technical respect. If anything, it'll sound nicer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9499	Thank you. Next in the debate, the Honorable Vice-President of Parliament Robert Podolnjak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9500	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today it is on the agenda when we will be able to discuss two bill proposals, one amending the Law on State officials, and the other discussing civil servants. Both were also proposed by law on the parent body to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And first of all, I would like to say that the committee is unanimous, as well as the Club of Representatives of the Most Supports that this proposed law is also being discussed in the ordinary procedure and that it does not go by emergency procedure. Both this and the next one we're going to discuss. This is one of those very short laws that comes down to a few sentences, and it seems to me lately that these laws come in the running lane, mainly as a result of some decision by the Constitutional Court. This law is also the result of the fact that the Constitutional Court has abolished certain provisions of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, so later the Government has regulated certain salaries with its regulation and must now regulate it by law within a certain period. What exactly is this about? The problem is first of all if I wanted to talk systematically about this subject that we have too many laws dealing with individual categories of government officials. And unfortunately, we don't have just one single Law on State officials or on the obligations and rights of state officials, but we also have a special Law on the salaries of judicial officials and judges, we have a special Law on the rights and obligations of MPs. They all kind of intertwine, all of them partially regulate coefficients, pay bases, other rights and fees. In fact, we have never fully regulated or the Parliament has not fully regulated this problem. And then it happens that in some situations something is regulated by the Parliament, sometimes it leaves the Government to react and to regulate its regulations or decisions a part of the normative regulation needed to implement the law and then some times the Constitutional Court appears here with its views, especially when it comes to the salaries of individual officials. First of all, the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials has been amended, and I've tried to count all these changes and additions, about 30 times. And it's never obvious that even the refined text was never made. For a law that regulates one important question in my opinion, too many amendments and additions are likely to be made, with an unofficially refined text, it is difficult to find out how normically this text is still appropriate in everyday application. And I think the priority of the Croatian Parliament should be one whole Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials. In this regard, it would be appropriate and I believe that this should be applied to ensure that all officials have the same pay base. That it does not differ between, say, political officials of those who are therefore in the legislative and executive authority and officials who are in the judicial authority and who have a higher foundation. It would be logical for officials who exercise the right to pay from the state budget under the same conditions to exercise that right and to be equal for all officials. I don't want to say it here, and I don't want to talk about the height of that base. In a specific case, it is now higher for judicial officials, and lower for those in the executive and legislative power. You have specific situations so that the Law on the Payments of Judges and Judicial Officers fully regulates the salary of these officials. So, and the pay base and the coefficient. So two key elements for determining the officials' salary. On the other hand, when it comes to officials in the executive and legislative authority here, the coefficient of officials established by the Law on Rights or on the obligations and rights of government officials, but the basis for payment is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And while the Constitutional Court said by its decision that it is not appropriate for the Government as an executive body to determine the basis for the salary of judicial officials, and then, in fact, to be passed on to specific officials in the Constitutional Court who are in law laid down in the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, therefore among political officials, we now relocate this situation in a way that judges of the Constitutional Court remain in the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials where they are all so political officials. And that their pay base will be established by other law, the Law on the Payments of Judges and Judicial Officers. So one situation that is not perfectly ideal. In any case, this law is welcome because, and it has been repeatedly warned earlier, it will equalise the wages of, say, all judges, so also those in the Constitutional Court, and those judges of regular courts in terms of the same basis. We've often had, I won't say an objection, but the indication that judges of regular courts especially the judges of the Supreme Court don't report to competitions for judges of the Constitutional Court because the basis for the payment of judges of the Supreme Court is higher than the salary of judges of the Constitutional Court. And by that logic no one wanted to run for office in the Constitutional Court where the base was lower. This law corrects it. The basic salary of the Constitutional Court judges will in future be identical to that of the Supreme Court judges and other courts and judicial bodies. That doesn't matter right now, I have to say, this time, we may have received the Supreme Court Judges' applications for the first time. I don't believe they were particularly motivated by this law of change which is now in the process of adoption, but in any case, it's good that our judges of the highest courts are evened into the basics of pay. What is also pointed out in the debate on working bodies and should certainly be considered in some future amendment to this law is the fact that we have not seen in the committee and we have not seen the logic of identifying individual coefficients for individual officials. And that some times it is unclear why individual officials, it is pointed out, for example, why the assistant director at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or the Croatian Health Insurance Office has a significantly higher coefficient than the assistant director of the Croatian Employment Office. You don't really see the logic of that difference. There are probably other differences that don't make sense. And what is also visible when it comes to coefficients that, for example, some officials have a very high coefficient, for example, even compared to representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, the MOST Representatives Club will support this bill with the following comments that this law goes into regular proceedings, so that this is the first reading, that it is acceptable because it replaces the existing regulation and equalises judges of the Constitutional Court with judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the highest courts, although each one has its own specific jurisdiction and part-round and we propose to the Proposer, especially the Ministry of Administration that, having regard to the fact that this law has experienced 30 amendments and the supplement to start working on a full legislative solution on the obligations and rights of civil servants, seeing all that will be said in the debate. And to see once again how much more quality can be regulated and rights, and duties, and coefficients of different officials and to what extent it is possible to avoid normative reregulation in a way that you have several different laws dealing with the same problem, so rights and obligations of officials. And that when you touch one law that it automatically reflects and reflects on other laws concerning some other officials in the second sphere whether executive, legislative or judicial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9501	Thank you. Next in the debate, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin is on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues are before us the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. One issue which, since it is only the implementation or translation of a regulation that has existed for more than a year in the law should not lead to excessive debate. However, this issue has caused this debate for several reasons. First of all, because this law has also shown that the ruling coalition is unable to refer any law to a regular procedure and that it respects what we call a regular procedure. My colleagues spoke before me about the need to conduct two readings of this law. There is nothing to add, and we can only say that SDP's club supports such an initiative. However, this is not the only formal problem related to the said law. Subject law is just another law in a series of those referred to in the parliamentary procedure without prior consultation with the public. The obligation to consult the public is codified in Croatia by adopting the Law on the right to access information. However, before that Law on the right to access information, that is, even before that obligation was made, the Constitutional Court established the obligation to carry out such consultation and established that the laws which such counselling, or even lower regulations, did not go into the situation where there is formal unconstitution for them, which is already in itself sufficient reason for the Constitutional Court to abolish such a regulation. In this context, we propose to the Secretary-General, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to conduct such consultation between the two readings. Such counselling does not necessarily have to take 30 days because we have objective reasons here for which it may take a shorter period of time but such counselling must be carried out. It is not worse mentioned that during the period of now already the famous coalition talks with all, precisely the Most from whose quota the minister is coming from, has asked that absolutely for each regulation before the procedure is addressed be consulted with the public. Practice has shown that it is easy to speak one thing before you take responsibility and it is a little harder to implement it when you take responsibility and when you come to the position of the government yourself because neither this law nor the law that we will discuss under the next item of the agenda has passed such counseling. But let's go back to the metric. As my colleagues have already spoken before me, it is a regulation that has been adopted to ensure that at the moment the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed, the Croatian Parliament adopted a reform of the income tax system for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the Constitutional Judges had the same income as their colleagues in the Supreme Court. And it's absolutely fine and it's absolutely fair. And that part should be supported. In this respect, the SDP Representatives Club has no objections to the content of the law itself. Of course, the remarks that my colleagues made before me are absolutely valid, should be considered. And you should also warn of an interesting fact. When you look at the chapter of this law, when you see how many People's Newspapers it's published you'll get to number 31. So this will be 32 publications in the National Journal relating to this law and we really need to consider whether we need a revision where this issue will be codified by a whole new law. So once again, the SDP's club supports the adoption of this law and supports the proposal that the law goes into 2 readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9503	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Milivo Spika on behalf of the club Bandic Milan 365 BUZ Ermina Lek, etc. Is the representative in the hall? If not, we move on to individual debates, distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9504	Thank you very much, Vice President. So we're talking about Amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of State Officials, we've heard over the past 20 years 30-year changes, only in the last term four times the law that says that every government of state officials is experiencing in its own way and trying to edit something, probably catch a few political points, because stories about officials and their rights are always grateful especially when it comes to salaries and consensus almost never happened. I remember the last government, they came with a strong promise to abolish parliamentary MPs' pensions, they implemented it through amendments to the law, abolished pensions to parliamentarians, privileged pensions. There was a heated debate about it. And what happened? Those who were the loudest in this, who wanted it the most, who suggested it to the public, gave the bill a bill, abolished pensions to parliamentarians but called on from 7th and beyond. So today you have two categories of parliamentary representatives of those who have the right to a privileged pension and those who do not have that right and we will agree that they were all parliamentary representatives or they will be. Such a pension remained for Zoran Milanovic and Silvana Hrelja and all those who were most eager to abolish. I don't know if you knew it, but the fact is that they have a right to it because it counts as retroactivity and whoever gets caught, gets caught and who isn't, has no luck. So and now these stories, I say they're always grateful because state officials are privileged, they don't do anything, especially parliamentary MPs, and of course it's the easiest place to catch some political point here, especially if there are still MPs who want to say it nicely to the outside, or catch a political point and then move on to all the great privileges. I'm just saying, here's the pay of the parliamentary representatives. We're looking at the State Officials Act, 25th in a row of all the odds, 25th means there are 24 other types of officials who have more coefficients than the MPs, and no one asks them anything. Some are even in the capacity, I'd say before, a civil servant than an official. I don't know, Deputy Chief of Government. I don't know whether he or his work is perceived in public, see which coefficient he has or some other, similar to those names of jobs or posts. We have situations from position to position or director of a state office, I don't know, for Croats outside the country. The last term marked the change that ministerial assistants came above or in the same rank as parliamentary deputies. It was interpreted in a specific way. They're doing more than Parliamentarians. Can we accept that? They can, they're executive, they work, they have their receipts at the tell-tale level of parliamentary deputies. But it happened then with such a move something else. In the term of 2007-2011 we discussed here the politicisation of public administration, and in 2010, contracts were held to introduce directors of the administration instead of ministerial assistants, and this was carried out and you had management directors for two years and the level of officials was only ministers, i.e. State Secretary. There's a new government, they said no, we don't want that. We will politicise the administration and we will add a third order of executives and these will be ministerial assistants and they have done so. And today we're saying again in the situation that we're constantly spinning around in circles, one government wants to depolitize it, the other government is going back to square one. That's the kind of situation we have with public enterprises. They could, through their regulations and their tenders, put political figures at the head of public enterprises through their decisions, leave the next government a regulation and ask them to be professionals looking for agencies and to be then people who do not come from politics so that we have now and these changes where we implement one decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm saying, another amendment, we don't know which order, and it's really time to make a new law and take care of it, so maybe in this part that concerns us Parliamentarians because there are three coefficients for the same parliamentary representative, if you're president of the Committee of a Working Body, you have a higher coefficient, if you're a vice president of something lower and an ordinary representative of the lowest and that working body would never work without all the representatives who are members of that working body. Then you have some other privileges going through it. Let's at least work something out between that, and I think the vice president and the president, but also the member, the parliamentary representative, is doing something about it. Well, we can't all realize the story, so we're taking performances, we're answering, we're preparing a session, and everyone else isn't doing anything, and they're members of a few working bodies and we come to that committee and we're now something isolated and then there's a jag on the formation of a government who's going to have a committee, etc. So there's one level to think about and how to solve it because without all the MPs, there's no and there's also a way to find a way to even it out in some way because there's a bad impression on the outside. There's only so much about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9505	Thank you. You have now reached out to the replica, the distinguished representative Ilic Marija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9506	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. In fact, I only wanted to tell Mr. Boric about the appointment of individual parliamentary representatives in this case, MPs Hrelja and Milanovic, on their right to retire parliamentary representatives. You don't have to call them. It's the Constitutional Court's decision, and I don't know why they should be ashamed in that case. But he forgot to mention something far more embarrassing that some members of the HDZ had not now gone there for one day to retire and returned back to gain the right to a privileged pension, in the interest of the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9507	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9508	Thank you very much. My colleague, I said that it was one of the promises and that it was a fierce promise, that it was one of the first points of the first term. I remember that very well and that it is the right thing for them to do. You can say that the decision was taken by the Constitutional Court and it was known and then, in the debate, it was said that it would fall in the Constitutional Court and that those who ended their term with a 6-year term would still have the right to that pension and that it happened. Nothing unusual, nothing foreign. As for retirement for one day. I know a mayor of SDP who retired as mayor just knowing about that law for one day, and then continued to be mayor and took advantage of that right to his pension. I asked him, and how did you retire as mayor for one day, and then you continued your term and nothing happened. And they tell me if he's SDP, then he can do anything, so don't worry at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9509	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9510	Thank you very much, Vice President. When any law is amended, a thorough analysis of the situation in the area regulated by this law should first be carried out. Dear Ministers, the law which covers, the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials imposes two key points which are not covered and should be covered. Who is all the state official because this law also determines who is all the state official and the pay-level coefficients, they define not only the salary but they define the relationship between each other. And it's so unnatural, irrational, politically unhygienic that it should finally be regulated. Here's just a few examples. Can't anyone see when it comes to who's all the officials, that there are in the law officials who can't be because it's said that the Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate is the official, and the Chief Inspectorate doesn't exist at all, he's been abolished. Nobody sees that. We have a chief state auditor and his deputies as a state official. The chief state auditor doesn't have a deputy, he only has a deputy. They can't be deputy officials when they're gone. But no one reads what other laws say when something is abolished and when something is aligned. Three years ago, four years ago, the State Inspectorate was suspended, unfortunately suspended. But he's always a state official. And so we have those who can't be, and we don't have those who should be. Why has he been in this House for 8 years, and the director of HRT has been arguing with the Parliament whether he is an official or not? Why don't you finally get the director of HRT to be a state official because it's only natural and only normal and only logical. And not just the director of HRT. Why would the President of the Commission for National Minorities be an official and not a director of the HBOR Administration, governor, deputy governor, vice governors are not officials by definition. I don't think many of you even know they're not officials, they're not officials. That the Director of HACOM is not an official, that all those who submit reports to the Croatian Parliament are not directors at all, such as the Council for Electronic Media, the Director of HANFA, the Director of FINA, HERA and not to list any further. We have 50 officials who are supposed to be officials, and they're not, and we have a few that shouldn't be who they are. Further on about the coefficients and the relationship. I would like to hear someone's opinion whether it's logical and that we have a different opinion, to see the arguments for one and the other, that the Chief State Auditor has a smaller coefficient than the President of the Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. If we consider the scope of the job, it's incomparable. If we take the complexity of jobs incomparably. If we take responsibility incomparably. But this one has a greater coefficient than the state's chief auditor. Director of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance or Vice-Presidents of the State Election Commission have a higher coefficient than the Director of the Tax Administration. And what are we going to say about that? Vice-Presidents of the State Election Commission, greater coefficient, higher salary than the Director of the Tax Administration. So imagine the responsibility of the Director of the Tax Administration, what the scope of the job is, how complex the job is, how much knowledge it takes, and vice presidents of the State Election Commission meet twice a year. And we close our eyes like we're sleeping over all of it. We're going to talk a little bit about representatives in the Croatian Parliament. They have a 5.27 coefficient. Imagine the same coefficient as Parliament's representative. There is no EU Member State that I have checked, that a member of Parliament has the same salary as the secretary of a court, secretary, secretary of the Supreme Court, the secretary of the Constitutional Court or the secretary of parliament, anyway. It's the same coefficient. Directors of state administration organisations, imagine this and Ministers listen well, the directors of state administration organisations have the same coefficient as parliamentary representatives. Let me hear someone agree that that's the way it's supposed to be. Or as a lawyer for gender equality. I don't underestimate anyone's job, but the lawyer for gender equality has the same coefficient as the Croatian representative. A little while when we call on Europe, let's see what it's like around Europe. The heads of state offices have a higher coefficient of 5.70 both from the Director of the Customs Administration and from the Director of the Tax Administration and from the parliamentary representative. What paradox? How does someone's stomach not work on that? It's to me, I'm afraid. And no one's changed that for years. And now that we're changing, we don't see it, so let's change it at last. I don't know what to call it. But that's when laws are passed without any analysis. And I'd like to know Minister, do you know that's the case? Do you know that who is not a state official, and I would like your opinion whether they should be the ones I listed and whether they should be in a law that doesn't exist? I'd like to know that. That's why it's good that this law goes into another reading, but it needs to be thoroughly passed, a thorough analysis to do, to agree on everything that's unnatural. Imagine having bigger odds, having official cars, having cards, having cell phones, all being paid for, for every tenant a parking lot is secured, and a parliamentary representative having a lower salary, a smaller coefficient, no privilege at all. Here's my privilege of saying this. I thank God for that privilege, because if he didn't, maybe 20 more years of silence would be left for these anti-natural circumstances that someone produced, but we have to change them. And I'm just going to support what's logical, rationally in the interests of the state, in the interest of each individual, not the privileged, certain groups. This shows who worked like this, that some office presidents, some secretaries, some with a minimum range of work, with minimal responsibility have much greater coefficients, much greater powers, much greater privileges than those with enormous responsibility. I can't believe this is being supported. But I do, and I'm glad to hear that you know that, so I hope that within 2, 3 months, I will come up with a thorough analysis and a change on this matter that I'm talking about. And it's the same situation with the next civil servants, so I'll talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9511	The first replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9512	Well, I agree with you to some extent, dear colleague Maric, but this is a solution that I have realized for more than a decade in circulation. Always some pay was a unit of measure. I'm thinking until '98. the measure was paid by the President of the Republic, so all the other officials were paid in percentage of the salary of the President of the Republic. At one point, the standard became the salary of a parliamentary representative. I have to admit after four years of acting in the executive power and now this short time as I am, as far as I am concerned, whether it's perfectly normal to say ministerial assistants, deputy ministers, ministers have comparable salaries, i.e. The same salary as the MPs. I think the responsibility of one minister and one president of Parliament's working body is incomparable. But every time such a question is raised, it is also put on the other side of Parliament's counterargument to safeguard Parliament's integrity as the highest body. As for the various directors and heads of state, it was every system must have its own homes. If it were to be measured for every duty by an apothecary scale how heavy, important, how much more or less we should pay, we would have chaos. I know they're just a few ministerial assistants, that's all. The director of management organizations had a slightly higher coefficient than the assistant ministers. That way it was going to show that something was a little bit more important, that something had a little bigger work to do. But I agree with you that such a system should be reviewed and reevaluated. But I would also not call for any new privileges or rights for us MPs. The fact that someone has a parking space, and we don't have one, which almost everyone in the system of the state administration has the right to not know a whole lot of phones and we don't have it, I don't think it's a big deal. After all, we are not because of these things here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9513	The honourable representative Maric will answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9514	I'm not asking for any privilege to myself. And is it normal for me to travel by order of the President of the Croatian Parliament at the Conference of the IMF and the World Bank and, of course, in three days with the road I have to answer the calls and get an account of 1000 kuna and pay my cell phone in private? Is that normal? That's what I'm talking about. The chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget, it doesn't matter whether I or someone else, it's not normal for me to have to spend $1200 in private to travel officially to the IMF Conference. If that's normal, I'll take it from you, too, come on. As for the former criteria, it used to be worth the golden rule, so it gave up. The gold standard was worth it. It's no longer worth it. It's gone into the currency war. Imagine the state officials are all those appointed by the President or President of the Republic of Croatia in his office. And he's not a government official, he's not a deputy governor of the CNB. They're not Vice-Governmental officials, but one counsellor at the President's office is a state official. Well, isn't that irony, a parody from the state? He's not the director of HRT, and who's the director of New TV or RTL? I don't care. But the HRT that submits the report to the Croatian Parliament appointed by the Croatian Parliament must be an official. And everything appointed by the Croatian Parliament must be an official. That's why I listed these agencies. It is unnatural and impossible why the Croatian Parliament appoints a director and he is not an official. Who determines their salary? It doesn't determine the law, it determines itself. Is that normal for you? Well, thank God it's not. That's what I'm talking about. But there's no way we can get to the bottom of this. That's why I'm raising my voice on purpose. Not to get a better understanding of how much it's necessary to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9515	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I haven't heard so much in such a short time, so I wonder if that's possible. Someone before me said it much nicer. So our task would be to introduce order. And that order should be our one and only goal. We can't like it any more or less, and collect political points. We're here to bring order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9517	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9518	Thank you very much. Rusak. Of course, no one bothers to analyze. But how can we get to order if we don't know the situation? If we don't know if there's a mess you can't bring order. We accept the constant state he is. No one analyzes it. So I'm glad you've figured out the unnatural nature of these situations. Look, I respect the assistant ministers but the assistant minister with some other function or what I was saying to the deputy president of the State Election Commission has more coefficients than the director of the Customs Administration. But believe me, I've tried a little bit, and I've analyzed it, and it doesn't make any sense that there's no logic in the law. There's no logic in coefficients, not even in the lowest or the highest, there's no logic. The coefficient should exclusively be the result of an analysis of the scope of the job, the complexity of the job, the invested knowledge in order to be able to carry out the job, the responsibility for the job. Here are the key elements for determining the coefficient. The height of the coefficient is in direct contrast to these two main elements, but there is no analysis of how complex the job is, how much it requires experience, how much it requires knowledge, how much time, how much responsibility it takes. So how is a certain coefficient? It's determined by memory, determined by whom it suits. And if we will determine the coefficients to the main state auditor and we will not determine the coefficient of the director of HRT or the director of HANFA, or HBOR, or FINA or HACOM, then we are not in a function that the public, Croatian people, is asking of us. Thank you for your observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9519	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9520	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Maric, always has beautiful discussions analytically, opens key issues on each subject. These two questions which he opened who is a state official and the question of coefficients imposes one reply rhetorically, he has actually asked a rhetorical question, he himself gave the answer that these debtors, those who are not officials and are appointed by the Croatian Parliament, which is the governor, vice governor, director of HERA, director of HACOM, FINA, HRT to be reduced into coefficients so that they can be controlled. That's the point of your story in terms of job responsibilities, complexity and the scope of work. Now you're in a position of power, so arrange these relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9521	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9522	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Penic, thank you for your suggestions and commendation, but also for this latest proposal. Well, that's exactly what I'm doing. And what is this now than an initiative? This place is the only place I can do it, and that's why I'm calling for it to change. That's the only way. You know where they come from and who does what work, I do my job. As far as responsibility is concerned, I need to point out that concept of responsibility a little bit. I can't understand that so many people in the ministry have, the administration that no one yet has the level of responsibility needed to propose in a few, it doesn't matter now in four previous or eight before or now, that they don't notice that there's no official of the state's chief inspectorate. I can't believe it. As I can't believe she's writing a record on the road at the Six-Six-man that Omis is 25 kilometers away, and she's writing a seven-mile record. And that's 25 years. I can't believe no one can see that. But I can't change the board, I can only say it's wrong. So is this. The one who changed the law and abolished the state inspectorate had to change both the Law on State officials and throw out when it didn't exist. But he doesn't know what his right hand is doing. And we're going to have to introduce responsibility to the primary school, and then, on top of that, responsibility. I just don't know who would teach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9523	Thank you. We've exhausted exposure and replicas. The final argument will also be given by Minister Dubravka Jurlina Alibegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9524	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs and gentlemen MPs thank you very much for the very productive discussion, the debate on this bill. Until the second reading, I accept your proposal that we have heard today that this bill goes into two readings and until the second reading we will consider all the remarks we have heard today and, of course, try to make all the remarks that we consider relevant and acceptable to install in the new proposal that we will discuss again in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9525	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, and we will vote when conditions arise.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9526	Following the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.51. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System have proposed to the Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion on the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.51. There will be a debate in the first reading. Any comments and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them. When establishing the text of the final proposal of this law, in particular, having regard to the justification for the regulation of different coefficients for similar positions. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the proposal for a conclusion. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Please vote. Who's in? 121 votes for, not one abstention or against. I find that the conclusion has been reached unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9527	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.49. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The amendment was filed by a representative of Peja Grbin. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system whose reports you received at the session. Does the proposing representative want to explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Management Dubravka Jurlina Alibegovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9528	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, is before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants has been prepared because of an increasing number of objections that the procedure for employment in the state service is complicated and long-term and requires that the possibility of faster employment of civil servants be arranged to work on jobs related to attracting and using EU funds and structural and investment funds. Of course, while respecting the constitutional guarantee of equal availability of state service as a public service to all citizens under equal conditions. In the current Law on civil servants, the most important issues related to the recruitment process have been settled and the detailed examination of how the public tender is conducted has been governed by the Government's regulation. Therefore, both of those rules should be amended when shortening procedures or speeding up the state service employment process. Amendments to the Law on civil servants and the Regulation on the opening and implementation of a public tender and of an internal ad in the public service have also been prepared. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on civil servants should also be adopted first and only after its entry into force may the Government adopt a new Regulation on the opening and implementation of a public tender and an internal advertising in the State Service. This Proposal for a Law and amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants has several fundamental changes and I would start by explaining the first fundamental change, which is the employment of officials in EU funds-related jobs. So the following amendments are proposed in this bill of law. Firstly, employment does not need to be foreseen in the state service accession plan but, of course, funding for new employment needs to be provided. And so far, it has been a practice to plan employment on those jobs with a specific government decision concerning all the authorities of the state administration and the government's offices. Secondly, when launching a public tender, it is not necessary to verify whether there are at the disposal of officials who meet the conditions for a schedule in a public place and verify their competences. Not only will this speed up the employment procedure but it should be noted that it is the officers who remain unscheduled in their national body because there was no job opening that they meet the conditions and, as a rule, it is the officials who, in view of their competences, would not meet the requirements of a job where European Structural and Investment Funds are engaged. The appeal procedure is an emergency procedure and the Committee on the State's Service is obliged to decide on a complaint within 30 days of receipt of the complaint. The service for a given time for the needs of work on a project financed by the EU funds and the EU programme may last for the entire duration of the project. Otherwise, until now, an official period of time has been set to carry out premature jobs or jobs whose range has temporarily increased may last for up to a year. In addition, the following is proposed in this proposal. Instead of cataloging criminal offences which are an obstacle to the reception of the state service, it is proposed to prescribe that persons against whom a criminal offence is conducted under official duty or found guilty of a criminal offence for which a criminal offence is conducted under official duty cannot be accepted in the State service. And I must point out that all of this is listed, consistent with the Ministry of Justice. In this respect, it is not necessary to state that obstacles do not exist if rehabilitation has taken place under a special law because this stems from the Law on the Rights of the Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation. In the public tender procedure, the national authority shall only verify whether applications for public tender are timely and complete and at that stage there is no obligation to determine whether candidates meet the formal conditions of general and special reception conditions and the schedule at public place. However, in the text of a public tender and a call for testing, it will be indicated that a candidate cannot be admitted to the state service who does not meet all the required conditions, which should be speeded up and simplified by a review of the applications, as there is no specific need to work tables with data on meeting the conditions for all the applicants reported. For example, in large competitions with over a thousand reported and generally 30 percent of the applicants reported appear for testing. The determination of the formal conditions of candidates registered in a public tender shall be left for later in the follow-up phase of the test before the interview and only for 10 candidates who have achieved the best test results. A decision on admission to the State Service shall be delivered to candidates by public publication on the website of the State Authority which has opened a public tender and on the website of the Ministry of Administration and delivery shall be deemed to have expired on the 8th day of the day of public publication on the website of the Ministry of Administration. The possibility of such delivery is provided for in the General Administrative Procedure Act and such delivery will significantly speed up the process and avoid the problems that arise when people deliver solutions by waiting for returnees, disorderly delivery and the like. In this way, the costs of delivery of the solution by mail, recommended by the returnee, are significantly reduced. The advantage of delivering a solution by public publication on the websites is that the deadline for complaints for all candidates will begin to run on the same day from the delivery of the solution, or on the expiry of the rest of the day, from the date of public publication on the website. People may be admitted to the state service on the basis of a public tender for a specified period of time to the cabinet of ministers until the date of termination of the minister's term of office. The selection of candidates for the public tender procedure will be carried out on the basis of the results achieved in the interview. An interview with the candidates shall be conducted by the head of the body or persons authorised by him. I must point out here that this is not about the so-called revolving door provided for in Article 74c of the Law, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia because it is possible to participate in a public competition for all interested persons who meet the formal conditions and the reception solution is made in the administrative procedure. The decision must be reasoned and all the reasons relevant for the selection of candidates must be specified. Therefore, the interview must be properly conducted, as a rule being done as a structured or polystructured interview and on the basis of it, on the basis of quality issues and answers obtained, selection should be made and selection should be made and the candidate who has the best knowledge, skills and skills to perform the job that is being completed. This proposal amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants is about changes in two more important areas. Therefore, the appointment of a member of the Committee on State Service to which the term of office expires, so a member of the Committee on State Service to which the mandate expires, may be re-named for a new term without carrying out an internal ad. A member of the Committee to which the term of office expires may apply for a re-nomination no later than 60 days before the end of the term of office. It should be pointed out that it is an option rather than a right to remain in office for a new term of office and that it is decided by the Government if a member of the Committee has performed his duties knowingly and in quality, so the Government considers that there is no need to call and implement a new internal advertising procedure for the appointment of a member of the Committee on State Service. With this proposal to amend and supplement the laws of civil servants, a similar provision is also amended, it suggests to the government's managing civil servants, appointed by the government on the basis of a public tender on a time of 4 years. It is proposed that the government may re-nominate a management officer whose term of office expires for a new term without carrying out a public tender. The term of office of the Executive Officer may apply for a re-nomination no later than 60 days before the end of the term of office. It is proposed to lay down, as a reason for the termination of the service by law in Article 137 of this proposal, a case where an officer is sentenced to a sentence of imprisonment or a sentence of a long-term prison or a partial sentence of a criminal offence for which the criminal proceedings have been conducted under official duty to give us the knowledge of the power of judgment unless he has been given a fine, a conditional sentence or a work for the greater good. So far, it has been a solution if it is convicted of a criminal offence that is an obstacle to the admission of the state service or if it is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of 6 months. Finally, Article 151 of the Law on civil servants proposes to establish the coefficients for the calculation of the salary of the managing civil servants referred to in Article 74a of that Law. It is, in fact, the existing coefficients that have been reduced by the Regulation amending the Law on civil servants which is in force until 30 June of this year in order to align the salaries of management officials with the salaries of civil servants. If the proposed law does not lay down, the coefficients of senior senior officials from the first July of this year will return to the height before they were reduced on 1 January 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9529	Thank you. The replica was presented by the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister! Later on, on behalf of the club, I will talk about some concrete remarks and suggestions, and it seems to me that we have failed to explain the need for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. But for this first line, I came forward for something else. We have already introduced a whole series of different kinds of MPs into our legislation through the President of the Republic and now to civil servants. They may be in very different positions but our legislation still doesn't know how much I follow one category. That's what you said in your opening statement. It's not a revolving door situation, and I'm pleading for it because of the clarity of our legislation, because the revolving door means something completely different from the status of any civil servants, any state officials to avoid that trivial name in all reasons because it doesn't mean anything in itself, he doesn't talk about anything. He cannot explain the norms you have proposed in the amendments to these laws and in our legislation is completely unknown. The fact that someone once said or gave that mark by repeating this in the reasons of the law can only lead to doubt. I'll try to explain why I'm talking about it and the Committee on State Services, so it might be good if the government doesn't use the terms our legislation doesn't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9531	Thank you. The minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9532	So, just one brief explanation. First of all, I thank you for this comment. However, here I must say, therefore, that in reason we used a revolving door for one single reason, for the reason that the Constitutional Court used this in its arguments, in its decisions. So, relying on those decisions, and in our explanation, the government used the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9533	Thank you. We're moving on to debates on behalf of clubs. He is the first respected representative, Milorad Batinic, on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, this law could be spoken of as something needed. However, a more quality debate would be far more clear to all of us if we knew specifically, if we had at least some initial indication of the very systematicization of these jobs. In fact, everything is explained in this legislative proposal after the adoption of the law, the Government will define by a regulation which is what it is. However, this is a targeted law. This law is strictly passed for a particular reason that you have explained, which is acceptable to us. You do not have enough people, consultants, educated, educated so that they can conclude from this in a system of state administrations that could do jobs on European funds projects. But I'm interested, and I say far better, and we could support it by emergency procedure like this, I'm not sure that's acceptable. Simply what number of people are concerned, which ministries, will all concentrate on what we think would be more than good in the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds. So, it's just the name of the restoring ministry. And the next question is whether you have the data on how many educated people you have for this area are in the system of state administration, and how many are on the market. Why am I saying that? Last year we launched a project with EU co-financing for young people. We chose not in this way but in the public tender of 10 young people highly educated in the area let's say the western part of the Varazdin County. They passed the test, they went through interviews, and after that, two and a half months with the agency, we signed a contract that took over education for this particular topic. After two and a half months of training, education has been certified by EU project leaders. Other skills have been gained along with that part. And now they're working on their own. How many people like that do you have? Unfortunately, if you didn't mention it or if you won't mention it, you don't know. Whether, and I'd like to hear that answer, whether these people, mean first how many you're going to receive, whether they're going to go according to the resolution ministries schedule or go all the way to the Ministry of Regional Development. If you don't answer, you don't know what's wrong. Furthermore, I'm saying it for another reason, too. We closely followed both yours and when it was of course when we voted on the government's trust, then an action plan to implement the Public Administration Development Strategy from 15th to 17th. There's only one link I could find with that inside some chapters. However, you have also made very clear in the programme of the Patriot and Most, rationalising the administration whatever it means. It doesn't necessarily mean reducing people, it doesn't necessarily mean. However, it was expected that after that, the government was confirmed in this House, the second half of January, February, March, April, let's say almost 4 months. Did you manage to record the qualitative and quantitative structure of the people in the state administration? I'd like to hear that answer. If you're not well. The more absolutely, in principle, this Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Strategy, the more it was adopted on the basis of the Public Administration Development Strategy, which in principle I think no one here in this House is against. Furthermore, these certain amendments to the articles can accept urgency, responsibility for as many candidates, registered, audited projects as possible. Okay. It's acceptable, let's go this way. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, But the key question is do you need a hundred people, do you need 50, do you need 200? It's not good this way for me to make changes to this law, because you're doing this precedent. This is a precedent based on what you presented to the citizens of Croatia and this Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy. I don't want to go into some details, but can this be applied to local and regional self-government? Do you think that at the level of local and regional self-government there is no such need? I'd like to hear the answer. So, that's why we're not for an emergency procedure like last week's commentary so that we can get there very quickly in the House and until the second reading I'd like to suggest another reading, and to the second reading of requests and recommendations to you Madam Minister to bring before this House a proposal as many people, what professions as people and try to find out on the market whether they're going to have a priority for people from the Employment Service, which is always a priority. I'm not sure. And next, I assure you, and this is an emergency in terms of the financial envelope that is in the funds, did you think in a way that at certain and local levels, regional levels you don't pull people out, regardless of what it says is up to 50 or if they give consent, because this can and the situation is urgent, did you think about it? And I'm also convinced that at a certain local and regional level there are people, there are environments that would be willing to give people up for it. Furthermore, in this part of what is certainly unacceptable and what is also haired, which is also precedentd because believe me from my own experience I know, and I believe that it is not good to do precedents when it comes to public administration. It's your boomerang. Article 10, Article 74 adds the following point 2: "The government may appoint a management officer whose term of office expires again to a new mandate without the execution of a public tender." And there is a list of who they are, etc. All right. Can analogy be applied at a lower level? And we now know very well the regional leaders, the local level going to a public competition, going to a test. Is that necessary too? I do not see the need for a managing officer to have anything to do with attracting money from EU funds. I don't know, or maybe I'm wrong. I'd like to hear your clarification. And it says in Article 74.d. paragraph 5: "The reception of the state service referred to in paragraph 1 does not concern the provisions of this law on the obligation to plan admission to the state service and the procedures prior to the opening of the public tender." So don't get me wrong, but what this says here is not in line with what you said here in the Assembly, which I was listening to in my opinion that it was in Sheraton at the presentation of the public administration reform, so I ask you whether this is entirely your proposal or what I can't say is also unacceptablely simple if the government has made such a decision that you have to write it down. We propose a second reading, we can pass very quickly, and I would like that if it is the EU funds that we support, to try to consider all these opportunities. And I'm also convinced by looking at numbers, so quantitatively there are more than enough people, qualitatively I'm not sure, but that's your failure if in 3.5 months you haven't been able to get information from the Minister's resolution ministries to do one such analysis. Furthermore, let's all think back three months after some appointments of ministers I'm missing 40 people, I'm missing 20. OK, I approve with full right, but after that it stopped and now we get this. I'd like to say he's going to another reading and I suggest the other clubs support this proposal. In principle, I agree when the urgency goes that way. And try to concentrate in these amendments to the law exclusively on officials who will work to attract and audit EU funds projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9535	Thank you. The replica was presented by distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9536	Thank you very much. I agree with you that this proposal of the Law on civil servants should go to another reading. And otherwise, any law if it's not technical, so just for some minor change, should go into two readings rather than an emergency procedure. You said the whole area wasn't seen. Well, here's in favor of only one article that speaks of the right to protect officials who report suspicion of corruption. Article 14a has not been amended and needs to be amended. Why? It is unlikely that anything that is unnatural and which should be removed is causing suspicion. I quote: "The address of a civil servant on grounds of reasonable suspicion of corruption or the submission of a complaint in that suspicion to responsible persons or to competent public authorities does not constitute a valid reason for the termination of the service." So what is this protection? It is not a protection, and in the chapter, the right to protect officials who report suspected of corruption, it is said, if they report suspected of corruption, they will not be fired. If you see a robbery on the street in the neighborhood and if you report it, you won't be ordered into custody. They'd be around to protect you. Therefore, every article of the law needs to be thoroughly studied and seen and then evaluated in accordance with both time and change. Because something worth 10 years or 5 years ago, or yesterday and today is not the same. We need to adapt to the situation. This is an undefined, vague, bad definition that actually doesn't protect the one that reports corruption. What kind of protection is that if he won't get fired and reported corruption? Well, I don't know how that thesis could have occurred to someone and incorporated it into the law. But I'll do the rest of the illogicals when I speak individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9537	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Maric, I'm going to do a good replica, answer the line in the emergency. In fact, even under the current law, it is possible to receive a certain amount of time to a year. For this reason, I do not see the urgency of the procedure, so they can, according to the current law, not need these amendments to the law to be applied to officials working on EU funds projects for up to a year. The more we read the Ministers carefully, the more we read the Action Plan in this year, the more you are tasked with doing this revision. There's no need then for this law if you're going to do it. Take a year of what you can do under the current law and then you will already have one base of people and call that contest and then you can according to this law which I assume you will then be able to get a job by the end of the term. The precedent is not good work. Next, was there a public debate on this bill? No, it's not. That was the first thing you said would work. And I say once again until then I believe that the government will be able to make quality systematization, quality analysis to decide whether to go to one ministry, Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, give yourself a timing, this is over your knee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9539	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9540	Thank you. Kolega Batinić, this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Civil Servants is not ready for the first reading of what is at our benches today. Not to discuss an emergency procedure to adopt him. He's mature for at least three readings. You asked if you were able to record the qualitative and quantitative structure of the staff of the minister and I assume that the question has been addressed. Minister Alibegovic, while you were on display, chewed gum, which I think is unacceptable in the Croatian National Assembly that the Croatian Minister of Government chewed gum during this main debate. And these discussions about this unprepared and unprepared proposal for and first reading here in the Croatian Parliament. I would like to remind you that in its report to the Prime Minister, almost 150 people in the ministry, which is incomprehensible, which is an indication that they simply entered into the agreement of this government unprepared, that they do not rule matter, and therefore, at this time, even though it has been over 100 days almost 4 months, they have failed to prepare a quality proposal for this new law for first reading and let alone for the second. And the last thing I'm saying is that I think this debate about these murky bill proposals is at the same time that the government has no purpose at all. So this House should look into each other's eyes, parliamentary representatives and recognise that in Croatia there is a major crisis of the government, that this government is falling apart and that almost 100% certainty can say that Croatia is being followed by early elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9541	Thank you, thank you, fellow MP, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9542	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9543	The honourable representative, Milorad Batinic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Glavas, you have some experience, you've been in politics for a long time, and you know that system, and it was simply a natural reaction through your replica. I get the feeling I've got some gum, too, so I can't blame the minister. However, why did I say the urgency of the procedure? So for this very reason, knowing far before the minister entered politics, knowing her work through the economic institute, and through her intercessorship for certain views she stands for, which means the profession I have expressed my doubts whether it is her work or whether it is a directive? I'd rather say it's a directive but Madam Minister can be done this way. We propose two readings, respect the suggestions and means the essence of someone's lever ok, what must be done, but don't ignore the profession in all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9545	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9546	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Batinić, you mentioned in your debate on several occasions whether it was analoguely withdrawn towards lower levels of local administration or regional administration. And here I am with you absolutely agreeing. Why do I agree? You also come from that mile of local administration and you know very well that still out there I think in 2001 a law was passed where the elected mayor or mayor or mayor could not at all influence the choice of their principals, the closest associates. They could, of course, have changed the systematization or some other maneuver games. But that's why I think now that I absolutely agree with you that elected officials at local and regional levels should be allowed at least by way of a level of duty to conduct a tender, at least to conduct a tender with regard to the head of local level. After all, these are their closest associates. They will ultimately implement their policy with these people and their idea through the development policy and local, regional administrations to simply have the opportunity to say tomorrow, I would say, to realise their plans and projects that they planned in the election campaign before they entered the post. As early as 2001, the law was not good, it was not good, it is now an opportunity to do so, that segment is improved and not to say that the leaders you are there, whom the official found must pass but must in some way give the newly elected official a mandate at his disposal and ensure that the newly elected official has a tender for the selection of his new closest associates. Otherwise, I agree that in two readings, maybe more, but really and of course, a public debate about this law and bring it down to a local and regional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9547	I thank you for the response of the distinguished representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9548	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boban, when I was saying whether it can be applied by analogy from experience and you also at local level, of course we operate under the Law on Local Self-Government, but our eyes are always against each other in practice as it is at national level. Just so we don't damage whether we're hiring someone or something, so we don't make a mistake. But that's one reason. The second reason is because there's a need to hire a guy like this. And that's why I'm saying that we support this if it takes for the duration of the projects and lasts longer than a year, absolutely yes. To make this one let's say an operational step, a practical step in this part of whether it can be applied at a lower level. If we want to be more operational at national level, the same need is also at local and regional level. That's one thing. Furthermore, as regards the structure itself, etc., as you said about the presidents, the local level, we are, primarily, that, at least not too clearly but from the minister's point of view, I agree in the work that it is necessary to very clearly determine what public administration is, to what level is politics but to what level of policy cannot break through, there is no influence on choice. Professional public administration, competent, effective, that's the goal. And you, too, and many officials at local and regional level, have learned that our success is very conditioned with the expert staff that... Without strong people, competent, quality people who both in the state administration and at lower levels and our role, or our success is questionable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's depolitize public administration and be real professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9549	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Club, the debate was held by Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if there's any need to repeat this, but perhaps she could have solved some doubts in the opening minister very briefly, we received reports with two committees. One is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the other is the Committee on Law. Both committees suggest this law goes to first reading. Therefore, even after this debate may have been initially said, I think it is the least the government should do to remove a whole series of objections and it has already been said that we can spend two law readings within a month and have time not to rush like this if we already have amendments on benches to give our proposals where we see that the law could be corrected. I'm going to start with something that's important for this law and show you that, in fact, by the measures we're proposing, it's not the case in these amendments and additions. An important law on civil servants had this great idea that Article 1 states that this law regulates an equal relationship between civil servants and the state as an employer. I'll try to show you that to these norms if so far there was a sure-fired equal relationship. Secondly, this is a law that we have now extended in the discussion that should apply to civil servants, which means for a circle of about 8,000 people who are currently employed with the status of civil servants. However, in its earlier amendments, this law extended the scope and concerns a local self-government official and the question is whether this law should do so and whether the law really guarantees an equal relationship between employers and officials. I will start with those amendments, therefore, except for the urgency of a procedure which explains that the emergency requirement is based on the government's reform measure on the need for a maximum speed-up of the call for tendering for EU funds and requires the need for hasty regulation, a faster and simpler recruitment procedure on the management and control of the use of EU funds, etc., etc. I'm not quite convinced from all the statements that we have simplified and accelerated the procedure except in some areas where the most serious suspicion is that this procedure should not be accelerated in this way. Therefore, admission to the state or reception service is subject to certain rules but only for certain categories of officials. What is prescribed by the rules does not apply in the rule of admission to the state service for a certain period of time and remember the initiative seems to me from last week to be a certain time of exception rather than a rule of employment. You don't have to go far, you can look at the Croatian Parliament to have people working on a certain time based on the contract for many years which the legislator never intended to prescribe. The rules then do not apply to the filling of jobs left empty by leaving officials from the state authority and to the admission of a civil servant to management and control operations of the use of European, structural and investment funds. It was one formula that was already used more to employ a whole series of civil servants after a short procedure, but unfortunately in our practice it proved that everyone was then working on the business of using the European Funds, so it was a rule that was often broken and lost the meaning that the law gave. Therefore, such exceptions would have to be if nothing else in these two readings were to be explained and more stringently defined when these officials could be employed under a special shortened procedure. Secondly, Article 5 amends the existing Article 51 of the Law, and it now prescribes that a human potential unit that will appear in this recruitment process before the Commission itself will then decide on employment, so I am in doubt how much this will speed up the process. In that Article of Article 5(4), you concluded that those who go to the test of candidates and after the test has been carried out, 10 candidates will be invited for each post, i.e. the performer who is sought by a public tender and who has achieved the best results. Which is why the legislator thinks that out of the 100 candidates tested 10 on the best test should call for an interview, it's certainly an acceleration, but it seems to me that you're giving up the possibility that maybe even of those who haven't perfectly written some tests and the conversation would have left a much better impression, you're denying yourself to choose the best of those who answered the contest. Next, there are some exceptions as well as so far that we have objected to when the past Government proposed the Law on Civil Servants, which is Article 7 where it amends Article 61, and you say that a person can be admitted to the state service for a certain period of time, and because of his job in the cabinet of the Minister until the day of the term of office of office. They're special civil servants. I will not use the term that you used and the fact that the Constitutional Court uses the Constitutional Court in its reasons does not mean that the term is laid down by law and even less means that it is defined and that it means something concrete. Therefore, there are again some officers who will be applied for a certain period of time because they will carry out tasks in the cabinet of the minister and will have a de facto mandate, which means that they will not be classical officials, will have a time-limited duration until the minister's term is over. You have also had practical questions, what if the next minister wants to keep such people, etc. But I don't want to get complicated about it. Furthermore, you said that this law solves some important areas, one of them is the work of the State Service Committee, which I honestly believe most of the Croatian public does not know at all what it does in particular, given that there are Official Courts and that this committee works in the complaints of civil servants, there you have listed a new rule that applies to some other management officers who, for example, are the chief secretaries of the ministries: "The government may appoint the managing officer to whom the mandate expires again for a new term without carrying out the public tender. "This is really something new in our legislative practice, especially when you take into account the reasons. The proposer says: “This provision suggests the possibility that the Government of leading civil servants appointed by the basis of a tender for four years can be re-named without holding a tender at the same executive place if they possess the necessary knowledge and skills essential for the performance of these tasks. I'm asking you an argument acontrario how they were so far employed if, for example, they didn't have those necessary qualifications. On the other hand, it means the will of officials who have been accepted to be re-appointed for four years without being able to compete with others in their jobs. And they were received in a way that we want to end, received in a way that did not allow all the best to compete for those jobs. And now 60 days before the term of office, although I think it's already too late for some of you tell them you can call back. We will take you because you, if the officer in charge is good and wants to keep him. What's that mark that a commanding officer is good, so that he wants to be kept, what kind of explanation is that? What does his will mean to remain in the executive position? And are we introducing a rule that we will apply later on for other mandates? I asked that on the board. I would like, say, 60 days before the end of my parliamentary term to apply to remain in the Assembly or elsewhere, it can still refer to the government. I think the argument is awkward, I think the principle of being able to name themselves as government officials, so they're carrying part of the state administration inaccessible. The principle also applies unfortunately to a member of the Committee on State Service where it is said that the Government may appoint a member of the board whose term of office expires again for a new term without carrying out an internal ad. A member of the Committee to which the term of office expires may apply for a re-nomination no later than 60 days before the end of the term of office. It's kind of petrifying the situation, allowing those who forgive the expression to sit in those jobs, very responsible places in the system of state administration and remain in those places without being able to gain competition that might be a better and better quality solution than the one we have. Finally, although the Constitutional Court regulated some of the issues in its decision by one of the articles of the law that allowed employment in the state service for a certain period of time until the end of the minister's term, it proved to be neither constitutional nor legal. In the end, only part of it gave up, because I still don't think the best way to solve what with one part of the people who should work as a professional service with appointed officials and what their working legal status is. And finally, what is an objection, if I may say so, no matter what my business is, it seems to me that the law has other areas to be changed, and you are not changing them by this law, and that is particularly the question of the transfer of civil servants. Today, under the current law, it is possible to move officials from local self-government to state administration under constant conditions that are not so complicated even from public services. When the last government was making that solution, I gave a little cartoon, so I said it was possible, let's say, that the archival from the town of Samobor be transferred to the medical center of Dubrava for a nurse. That's what the legal solution looked like back then. Unfortunately, it hasn't changed, so it seems today, and thus we are opening up a much bigger problem that we haven't talked about, that this law actually affects local self-government officials who are by no means civil servants and cannot be covered by this law. There is a special law for them, but in this way intervene in the legal status of local officials, officials in public authorities and transfer them as needed, or in other ways to the bodies of the state administration, I think it is at least comprehensible and it is part of the law that I stand up for on behalf of our club if, and we will have two readings to try to solve in a legitimate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9551	Thank you. The replica was first reported by the esteemed representative Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9552	Your Honor, Mr. Mlakar, I appreciate your intensification that through quality and content debate we come up with as high-quality a final proposal as possible of this law. However, I would also like to point out that all these anomalies in the laws have been an opportunity to solve even the previous years, at least one part of them while you were also one of the ministers in the Croatian government, and by referring to the previous debate of counterpart Batinic, who also spoke about unprofessional staffs, etc. about the need for a heartreening. This screening was required 25 years ago, so we would certainly have better quality and professional personnel who could respond to all the challenges. However, I would also like to complete your debate with one proposal. In the current law, there is one discrepancy with the Labour Act. It refers to retirement on the issue of age, so officials at the state administration. According to the Labour Act, officials retire on the day of their birthday, unlike those working in state services leaving calendarly on December 31st. I think that compliance with the Labour Act would certainly free up a space for the employment of young quality professionals. Therefore, here is our recommendation for you and your people in the administration to bring this process of second reading into line with that provision of the law on labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9553	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9554	Dear colleague Kristic, you wish to impute to me in your replica that I have had the opportunity to work on this legislation and that the legislation that some of these relations should have been regulated was not perfect. That's how much I understood the essence of your replica. I never said that. I haven't done a single job in my life perfectly. But I did it well enough for the EU to say the laws you have made have passed every possible test of Chapter 23, I don't know if you followed legislative activities in the Republic at the time, so forgive me but a little more serious critics than you have concluded that our legislation is good enough. These standards I read today I haven't entered into the law and I haven't had the opportunity to change them because they've been in this law for the last few years. I was saying, and then I told you about this law no matter what people talk about, I'm the first one to protect civil servants because it's easy to throw all the sodium at them anyway, and without them, you wouldn't have these papers in front of you today, or you could talk about the quality of their work. I have a much better opinion of them than most or that picture created in public, but I never predicted that I did everything perfectly. You just know our legislation is 26 years old, it's had various conditions, it's had different solutions, it didn't start the day before yesterday, it didn't start with the last election. It's brought you a lot of things you can use. And it's good to study first, so let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9555	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9556	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Mlakar, your debate has a double weight in relation to all of us because you were the minister of administration in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I personally think you've done a good job. It is somewhat unusual for me that such a bill comes into emergency procedure and I agree with colleagues who have also proposed with committees to go into at least two, and three can because it is a very important and extensive area where public debate should be involved. I don't know how the legal proposals are coming to the Parliament, I know what's in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and I know what the government's powers are. How could this possibly have happened like this? Is it because she's the Minister of the Most and then there's a proposal coming from the Most, or has all the government's professional bodies gone this way the way that it came to us? I'm against it, and I've listened to you very carefully, and you've been very argumentative and professionally explaining what needs to be changed here. It's amazing that at this moment when we are here, and our civil servants expect much better treatment than they do today, I agree that we should intervene in the law and that we should, but Madam Minister, not in this way. And I'm surprised, I'm here third term, all the ministers who came to the Parliament and who came with legal proposals listened carefully to the presentations at least on behalf of the clubs, this individually about that after. You didn't write anything down. Mr. Mlakar, I believe, I expect the minister to give you a reasoned argument that you have in your debate. It is the least expected of ministers when coming to the Croatian Parliament and speaking on behalf of clubs regardless of which party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9557	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9558	Dear fellow Salapic regardless, I have taken at least part of your replica as a compliment, but I have no double weight. I may be a little bit harder than you, but that's probably why it's just a healthy diet, nothing else. What you said, and I will repeat to my colleagues who think that I, with some particular intention, have made these remarks. The government is a parliamentary majority, I think it's the correctness of the parliamentary majority and that the remarks it made when it was in opposition stands out and today it has the right and obligation to tell its government, in particular, that you cannot put such laws into an emergency procedure. This law, I wasn't rude, it wasn't completely out of line, this law we've been saying on the working bodies didn't offer statistics what the State Service Committee has been doing for the past five years. What's their statistics? How many received items, how many solved and God forbid, and I'm afraid of the unsolved? Is it possible, then, to re-name the same people on these duties, or in this case to official jobs, etc.? I haven't talked about all this in an effort to show that we have enough arguments to suggest to the government that he thinks about the solutions for another month and that he might come with a more complete law than the one he's offered. This was the intention and in any case the intention to talk about civil servants properly, not to use them only when it is said that we have a trom, inefficient and over-counted state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9559	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Mlakar, in your presentation and in your explanation of this approach to this law, and among other things, you said that he, that an equal relationship is being violated, can it be called a discredition of one part of those and all in one way that might come to the competition and not get that opportunity? It is certainly certain that we need experts in all the restaurants, which can certainly speed up certain processes. And my question is, has everyone been put into an unfavourable position that way? And those who are employed in such a way and those who have not been given the opportunity? It is doubtless, I will agree here with all of you and also with your exposure that this law requires one full approach and discussion before the adoption itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9561	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9562	Dear counterpart Šipic, I'm glad you came forward because your experience from the locals can certainly help and surprise me, I don't think we must always have big public debates in order to pass any law although the colleagues refer to it. In this way, the really legislative process could also have serious problems, but something that can be solved in a relatively fast time I don't see that we have to bring overnight. What I was talking about about was the attitude of the state as an employer and those principles of the law, I was thinking first of all about what the law which is now in force is not about this proposal, but I appealed that this proposal was brought into place by an injustice that never existed and that the civil servants of the employer were moving according to their own will, justifying the needs of the service which, of course, was not defined and transferring people from local self-government, from the public service to the state service. That's what I think the earlier law has gone too far or gone beyond what would be permitted by the Constitution and that, in some way, with the right of the officers, they could object to such a solution and then, of course, to their transfers. It's a problem that these changes haven't even been touched and that's why I mentioned it in the debate. Because as we go in two readings, the Proposer can decide to settle things like that. It seems to me again that we've talked about design here, design according to the population of people who have high positions in the state service, and we're allowing them to hold their mandates without getting competition, and you're right there there's no way someone can compete in their seats. That I think is really the thing that this government has to erase from its proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9563	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9564	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague, I wanted to be on the subject of this bill harsh and critical such opposition, but I must say that my colleague, Mlakar, has preceded me in his criticisms, and I think it is already quite difficult to follow and understand this situation where a bill goes through the government, a government that makes up the HDZ and the Most together and then comes to the Assembly and then the Most, excuse me, in this case, the HDZ falls under a bill that is defended by the Minister of the Orders of the Most. And then after that, fellow MOST colleagues are replicating their colleagues to Mlakara. I think it's more difficult to track in this chaos who's ruling and who's the opposition. I think they treat each other like some kind of ruling opposition. MOST v HDZ, HDZ v Most, who knows where the Prime Minister is. But let's go back to this law, the Law of Amendments and the Supplements to the Civil Service Act. So as far as this work is concerned about simplifying the ESI fund-related employment, we agree in principle. We feel that this should be simplified, that it needs to be accelerated, that it is simply necessary to look for the best people for these jobs. It really is of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. As far as I'm concerned, I skipped, you'll only forgive me for the law-making process in an emergency or regular procedure, and we, of course, agree as a SDP club that this law is going on a regular basis. We think it's good that the more laws go into order. I'm only afraid that if this law goes into regular action, and not urgently, I'm not sure we'll ever vote it because at the rate this coalition is falling apart, this ruling majority. And I'm afraid that neither this law will be passed nor will there be those ministers if that law ever comes into power with which these people should be co-workers to which they speak in the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9565	I'd like you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9566	This is the subject of debate, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9567	The subject of the debate is to amend the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9568	Look, this is the political body of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9569	I'd like you to stick to the subject matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9570	All right, all right. Thank you very much. Here I am no longer, since this is still a Croatian Parliament where only matter is to be discussed and no political court can be said. All right, let's go back to the matter of the law. So to me, we are extremely pleased that this law is in front of us today in Parliament because it means we see that it is returning to the Institute of Article 74c, although in one slightly altered form, so now it is no longer 74c but 74.d. I use that term on purpose, not the revolving door. Because I agree with my colleague, Mlakar, I don't think there's room for such names in Croatian and that's not legal matter, and that was one of the coloquial names of that one institute we proposed, voted in 2012, with which we agree. We, for example, were called 74C in practice in the state administration, now that 74C, after 74D, and there are no big differences in being that law itself. So in one case and another, people are employed for a certain period of time during the term of office of the minister. I'm afraid in the case of these ministers and these governments, it's usually going to be quite a short career, short-term employment. As we were then for that model, we'll still be today. At that time, we felt that every body leader, whether the Prime Minister, the first vice president, the second, the third, the fourth, or whoever is already the vice-president or the minister, had the right to form one of his narrow team of closest associates and that in terms of teaming up the team must have some flexibility. I mean, these people were bound in fate to their bosses' duties, and in some ways they were further motivated to make extra efforts, to be maximum concentration. You were fiercely opposed to that model at the time, you said there was going to be an outbreak of the administration, that all your people would remain in the system. Here, as you can see, that didn't happen. None of these people remained in the system and although there was a suspension of this article 74C by the Constitutional Court because the Constitutional Court concluded that it was anti-constitutional because it did not give everyone equal access to public services. All right, I don't know why the Constitutional Court took so long to get that decision at the end of the term. But well, all right, I know that some of your colleagues at the end of the term before the new government came in very anxiously called me and asked how they would now resolve the issue of their colleagues in cabinets. So here's what they came up with, so now we have in the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, special advisors for various jobs that I believe that when this law comes into force, it will become a little less special. Special and slightly more counsellors for general affairs and other jobs. So we can tell you that we have had very good experience with this institute and we have also had a very good experience for you if this law comes into force and if it is maintained we want a lot of happiness, and when you leave the government, we will be very happy to also use this law because we also felt it and we will always feel that it is much fairer and better for the system to take people into the cabinets in this transparent way, but then they go away without doing it like it was done at some time not so long ago that simply for an empty job, a competition is being opened that so visibly outlines the candidate that it was practically missing just a picture. Well, then that gentleman or lady gets into the system, and then she's playing pro in that system for the rest of her working life. And such examples lead to the uplifting of the administration, and I don't think such cases have ever been completely deprived of party influences. And since a colleague was there, I did a little research on these discussions when this was passed in 2012 by Law 74C and it was about party cards. The party's cards had an impact before, and I believe they'll have it now. The only real difference compared to the 2012 law is the famous 74C, you see, I don't keep using the term revolving doo, it was also annoying to me, so 74C, 74D introduces one step in normative activity i.e. in norming the law on... the national administrations where a tender can be opened in principle by anyone and introduces a truly rigorous selective process through an interview procedure in which the head of the body will conclude very transparently which of those who apply to this contest and who may apply to all have satisfied its conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the terms are prescribed by him and the decision is strictly discretionary. What's your conversation gonna look like? It's not in the law. It's nowhere. Is some form specific? We can only imagine what will be said there. Most likely, the MOST will be lost a little bit, and the HDZ will be lost a little bit, depending on which minister or leader the candidate is coming to. The decision will be at the end of the decision to the leader in question. And again I say he'll decide discretionary so that's it, this whole interview and this contest procedure is one of the most common farces. But if it helps you at the Constitutional Court so that the Constitutional Court doesn't lift you again like we did, that's better. I say again, I don't know which way we think every leader has the right to bring in his team and a team that isn't necessarily, Assistant Minister, Deputy Minister. I see you have a terrible problem still choosing assistant and deputy minister. Here's Mrs. Resorna Minister, who sits here, for example. Still no deputy minister. I believe she wouldn't be sitting here today, I don't think the secretary of the administration who announces the comprehensive reform of the state administration has a better job than sitting here, but she doesn't have a deputy, so there's no one to sit here. Well, maybe he'll have a little bit more luck with Article 74D, so he'll get a little teaming up, so he'll work better. Besides this institute, apart from this institute, we're also a colleague of the Mlakars talking about the Institute of Temporary Employment, i.e. Move. I can tell you that we've had some very good experiences with that, too. Although we didn't pull people, at least as far as I know, at least not in the institution I was responsible for, we weren't pulling people out of local self-government, we were pulling out, or borrowing the best of the best. And you know when you look at that employment institute under Article 74C it could be done in one other way. We did it in a way that we made the system flexible and that we took the best of the best, people who today were respected diplomats, ambassadors, very few were brought in, people who didn't deserve it, i.e. Not that they didn't deserve it was a false word, but that they weren't really necessary for that system and were rightly borrowed from other institutions and later returned to those institutions. And that enriched the office of the Prime Minister, which I led and in some specific tasks, some specific circumstances when you needed an associate with specific knowledge such as the online communications department that today and this government are using not as skillful as ours, but here for now they've changed the coat of arms, it's a great success, and I really congratulate you on that. It was really a reform of measures, i.e. Back it up. We were doing not only an interview at the time, and that interview wasn't me, but that interview was the head of the department, the lady who was very professional because we needed specific knowledge and we called the competition, we invited people and they did the tests, and they went through the best, so we could do it anyway. It doesn't have to be written anywhere by a farce like this, a playbook that somebody's gonna answer. And we'll also be here to be an opposition to following these competitions and we'll follow up on these conversations and we'll follow which people will show up at these jobs, we'll insist, we'll be boring, we'll bother, we'll ask questions. I assure you there will be a very high coincidence between the current special advisors and, as I said to those who may become a little less special tomorrow. Croatia as we said were yesterday has no government. I think today this little play between fellow Mlakar and fellow MOST has shown it very clearly. There is chaos in the Bani Courts and everyday conflicts that are overrun at this assembly. If these new officials, these new colleagues, the frames will help you to start working, that as the president of the Republic of Croatia said very nicely the other day that you were going to step aside, then we welcome these changes to the law. Otherwise, don't make things difficult for all of us. Don't, just say it, it can't. We're going to the election or let us keep working where we left off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9571	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9572	In your speech, you were not focused on the subject in one piece, but whatever it turns out that the SDP was in power no longer 20 years ago, not some 3 months ago, and that politics only started with the Most. Unfortunately, your governance structure was very easy to function in the coalition with HNS, divide lipo HEP, share clean trade, it is known that it is the entire structure of Croatian water, employment, preying, so these are familiar things. Let's say the director of HEP, the former best man president, was now when he was no longer president of the HNS, was removed, was brought from your coalition partner by his best man, so this best man you threw out now has to get a million kunas of compensation, abandoned vehicles, and that's what you were dealing with, it was your management strategy. There's no problem here that the government will fall apart or fall apart, and here the problem is that by your leadership in the last 20 years, it's now 300 billion kuna. Can you tell me how much she's been in charge for the last four years since you've been in power, here's what I'm interested in, I see that you're quite professional, competent, and I'm glad that such people are representatives of the people, but I'm very interested in the information that you would continue in this direction so much debt to the state that we have a number of problems and issues today that you've brought the state to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9573	The honourable representative of Tomislav Sauch will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9574	Dear fellow Bull! And unlike this government, our government existed, she had a prime minister who got legitimacy in the elections, who made decisions and we made decisions as a government, we sent laws to the Croatian Parliament and that's what you're not doing right now. So you're not even aware of how much damage you're doing to the Republic of Croatia by not doing this exactly. I can tell you that now you're talking to me like you're being so nice and professional. Look, I've got some experience, at a state level a little bit more than you do, and I'm not denying you the right to be a parliamentary representative, though, you're an excellent parliamentary representative. I'm just telling you that out of my experience, the state isn't waiting for anyone, but nobody and the job is piling up, and when decisions aren't made, when problems pile up, it's at one point becoming a problem that's very difficult to get out of. I told you in the end, dear colleague, if these personnel help you to step aside, start working, we welcome it. So my message is just start working. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9575	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sauch, I've been closely monitoring your exposure. I see you enjoyed it yourself. Somehow the smile didn't come off your face. I understand I hope your sarcasm. You've made a few things completely wrong. It is that I have made such harsh criticisms to the law that you no longer need to talk about it. I think the need for you to shut up some things stems from something else entirely but it doesn't matter. The second is that you have completely incorrectly and incorrectly said that any changes to the law on employment in the state service have you done the right thing, you have chosen the best of the best and you have not increased the administration. It's the easiest thing I can tell you that's not true and check in each of the ministries what state you left behind, including those people you received without a competition. Now in your mind, you've been running competitions when the SDP does it, then it's quality, good and fair. When others conduct competitions, that's not good. There you are a little contradictory in your statements. I was saying today that it's much fairer to conduct a competition than to choose people by political resemblance without the competitions you've been doing. And do not take your own example of finding a solution for all those who have quickly and easily reached top places in the public service regardless of whether they were official or official. And finally, the fact that at this point we are the position that our government dares to say and what is not good in the laws is a standard that you can only dream of and it will take many generations to discuss in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9577	Thank you. The honourable representative of Tomislav Sauch will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9578	Dear colleague Mlakar, I apologize if I offended you or if you felt that I was not correct when I said that you had brought a bit of opposition. It's just amazing to me that one serious party in the power to claim, i.e. which is the strongest club, therefore, which is at the moment the main party of power, that it does not agree with its champions in the Parliament about such an important law. This did not happen so often in our day, because we had club representatives who had ministers coming to, and it was discussed, negotiated, discussed. So, we've had our parliamentary procedure as soon as we've done it, these deals we've done in the assembly to control each other. When it comes to the fact that we hired, I don't know how many people, that they stayed in the system, it's just not true. And I told you first about article 74c. So revolving the door. None of these people stayed in the system, none of them. If someone is left to deny me, and if someone has reported to a job competition in the state administration, and my God, it is the right of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to report. Right? Public service must be available to all under equal conditions. And if someone's been through the 74c system before. And in the meantime, he reported to an open job so that we could stop him from doing it. But I believe there were few cases like that. If I'm wrong, please deny me. And yes, I can tell you that I enjoyed my presentation and I hope you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9579	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9580	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully to my dear colleague Sauch. First, your request to resign. So here's my little modest experience of four years here, I've been looking directly into the eyes of the current hour 10 times, asking former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, today's fish king, to resign for the damage he's done to the state. His answer would always be that we have a majority in the House, and I'm not really interested in you asking me a lot of questions or what you want. We've got a job and we're doing a job, he's always talking about the benefits of the state. So your stories, your resignations, the government has, the governments don't have just one politically beautiful speech like this, but nothing more than that. Because we hear yesterday and today, Pedja said yesterday there is no government, today Zoran Milanovic says there is no government, and then yesterday all journalists run and ask how the government made the decision. So, a government that doesn't have made a decision every day. Of course that's very interesting to the media, because I say as long as we catch your pass, and that's one replaced vice president and 10 ministers probably take some time. Your first minister left at this time, if I recall, one of ours left at the beginning, and that's about the same, and now we're going to see this by 10 or so if there's a need, and I don't think it will. Because when we listen to the remarks, we don't make laws. What was the former government famous for? She passed about 470 laws somewhere, and we concluded that the people had not lived better with it, it was removed. So now we should get me a 700 so everyone's happy. It's not that, we're gonna do what we wrote down and it's gonna happen. And what were the differences? I don't know my colleagues, Chacic, Holly, today Baldasara, with all of you. Well, that was art to watch. The media didn't enjoy it as much as I'm trying to say today in some situations that are perfectly normal in political life. If he's got most of them, he's got government. [[Invadica Podolnjak: Dear fellow!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9581	Thank you. The honourable representative of Tomislav Sauch will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9582	I'm glad you called. I've been waiting for you. Yes, you called on the Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, often to resign, and he answered you, we have a majority. But I'm afraid that in the case of this government, it's not quite clear and safe. I mean, we don't already know which Friday in a row we didn't have a vote because you can't secure the quorum. What kind of congregation majority can't secure a quorum? So you still haven't been able to bring Stjepan Mesic's office to an end, and that's how much you cared about it. Well, that's where we've been arguing for two days. Well, you're not able to raise 76 hands here to vote the most ordinary laws. Because the government is gone. And why do you say yourself, but the government made a decision yesterday. But the government made a decision at a phone session yesterday. You know, but no, no, no. Wait! Wait a minute, phone session. Very interesting that one such fateful decision is made at a telephone session that...... What? [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go. Here's what Mr. Mlakar might want to say. It's about leaving. So, yes, a phone session about such an important issue. So we wouldn't have to sit at the same table. And on the matter of the Minister's departure, look, my colleague, here on this issue, you keep the world record recorded in the Guinness Book of Records, and believe me, I don't think anyone will ever be able to beat you to it. So, Mr. Black, how long did it take him? So on the matter of the departure of ministers, divergences, etc. You are champions here, and you will remain champions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9583	Thank you. The last replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Sauch that Ms. Secretary still doesn't have a deputy, and because of that fact, she has to sit here in the Parliament, explain the law, and she certainly has better things to do. I must say that I assume you were joking when you say that the presentation and interpretation of the law in the Croatian Parliament is that it is not a very smart job. I have listened to all sorts of nebuloses in this House but here this one certainly comes to the top of such statements by Croatian parliamentary representatives when they claim that it is not particularly smart work of the minister and minister to explain their own law, the law of their government here in the Croatian Parliament. Otherwise, when you mention a phone session and talk about how the government at yesterday's phone session has solved a very important topic through a phone session, I will remind you that your government has also decided at a telephone session to leave the arbitration for the dispute with Slovenia in Savudrija vala. So it's not that it's something new, I think we listened to it and watched it in the last term when your government, the government you belonged to, had a series of phone sessions and just for very important topics. And we didn't exactly believe you when you say that the constitutional right of civil servants in the state administration is that when they enter the state administration through a revolving door to report to the competition then because believe me, he's not in the same position as the one who already works in the ministry, which the minister brought with him in relation to any other citizen of the Republic of Croatia when he comes to the competition in that same ministry. I think this is about a much better position and advantages than any other citizen reporting for employment in state bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9585	Replication response, Tomislav Saucha.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9586	Dear colleague Bacic, why did I tell Mrs. Secretary that her deputy might be sitting here if she had one, so she could choose him. For a reason because here I remember when we voted i.e. When we discussed the abolition of former President Mesic's office for two days, Mrs. Secretary was sitting here. My question was at that point good for me who at this point is sitting in the Department of Administration and making decisions? Who does strategic thinking, who designs public administration reform? I remember when I was head of the Prime Minister's Office, which is probably not as demanding as the secretary of the administration, so I couldn't move out of that office as much as I had to do. So that I would sit in the Croatian Parliament and not participate in the debate and sit there for hours and hours and hours and hours and again I will send the same law to the procedure and time goes on, and the work is piling up. That's why I'm telling you, my colleague, that's why there are deputies, you understand, that I can replace you in some situations. And yet I think it's a fundamental task for the ministers to be in the ministry to manage the ministry to come up with new laws, not to sit here and listen to our debates necessarily. That's what a deputy can do. And as for those who've been hiring, I don't really know. But I would only tell you one thing, for those who will eventually get a job on this 74.d. I think we should immediately foresee these special conditions. specific additives for difficult working conditions. Imagine these unfortunate people who report to this terrible, selective procedure and theoretically get a job, get a job and then go home every day and watch with a chill of central news show and watch about new conflicts in the Patriot coalition and the Most. Well, you must be going to sleep trembling every night because they won't know if they'll be busy in the morning. Well, that's terrible!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9587	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Vice-President Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9588	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Mrs Opačić, the esteemed Minister with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me present on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MOST the club's position on the subject of amendments to the Law on State Officials. Since I was holding a session at a time when this debate was already being held on behalf of several clubs, I was denied to look back at certain statements in a single replica, but I will try to look back in part at this exhibition and what was said earlier. First of all, the position of the club is, on the basis of all the discussions that have taken place in individual committees, especially two parent bodies, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Legislative Committee, to discuss this law in a regular procedure, to go to first reading and to actually be the basis for the final draft of the law today. It's the club's position, but I'd like to say that earlier it's been pointed out that we are, in fact, in some way now breaking the position of the ministry and the government that is proposing an emergency procedure. I'll put it this way, I don't know what it was like in the previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament, but I know some numbers, I know that in the previous meeting and in the earlier conventions 80% of the law was passed by emergency procedure, 80%. Many of them were not laws that should have been passed by emergency procedure thanks to a special procedure of harmonisation with European legislation. There are even special reports of the Constitutional Court that warned that this was a harsh violation of parliamentary practice and that the Croatian Parliament should, if possible, consider the laws in the ordinary procedure and only exceptionally in the ER. If, therefore, we will respect that position of the Constitutional Court and we would have to, not only because the Constitutional Court said so, but also because it protects the dignity of this Croatian Parliament. I see absolutely nothing controversial in that both MPs and parliamentary majority clubs also require that individual draft laws be discussed in the ordinary procedure. Whatever it is about our government, the government is an executive body and the government always has its mechanism of action and the government always wants to pass laws or suggest that they be brought here by emergency procedure, that the Parliament does not discuss them too much, that it does not think too much, that there are no too many amendments. I guess that's the nature of the executive body and every government. In addition, this is one of those reasons why they say parliamentaryism is worse today and that governments have, on all grounds, gained priority in the parliamentary system. I am therefore pleased that in a series of discussions in the last 2 months on most legislative proposals, and not only these today, there are the views of the parliamentary majority clubs to discuss most of the laws in the regular procedure, and even of those laws which consist of several articles like those of previous officials who are less than one page. And for him, we asked for a regular procedure. It therefore becomes the usual practice of parliamentary majority representatives. And I hope that as a good practice, this will be shed into some tomorrow's meeting of the Croatian Parliament when today's MPs may be the parliamentary majority of the opposition. This is a good example and good practice, and it is not necessary to see why MPs of the parliamentary majority collapse in such a way in their own government. Furthermore, this law that is under discussion today, the proposal of the Law on Civil Servants is another law that we have at least partially under discussion because the Parliament is in the correctional exam. Because we are partly solving some problems that clearly fail to solve any co-operation regardless of the change in parliamentary majority and opposition when it comes to hiring certain categories of employees. The last meeting had this problem with civil servants who were admitted for a certain period of time without competition not to use that English term that was not measured, mostly the Constitutional Court assessed it as an unconstitutional and violation of the constitutional principle of public access to public services under the same conditions for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This proposed law tries to solve the same problem again, but the fact that we should objectively look at both in the parliamentary majority and in the opposition that there is a clear problem when the new government, new ministers, new vice-presidents and vice-presidents, as well as the officials of the Parliament, vice-presidents, etc. that they come to offices where they either find employees of past predecessors in past ministers or they find no one. When I came to the Vice President's office, I didn't find anyone. So, simply all these people are either temporarily in certain offices or on time going to another workplace or as in the previous assembly of these officials are actually suspended jobs because they were admitted for a certain time. And so the problem should be solved as what every government obviously wants, each minister to surround himself with at least a few people of the greatest trust that should be in his opinion professional but at the same time the person in whom he has absolute confidence. It's probably the fastest round of associates every prime minister wants, the vice-president of the government, the minister of government. That's what the government wanted and passed when it proposed an amendment to the Civil Service Act, so does this government. The past government did so in a way that it amended the law in a way that the adopted civil servants were limited by the end of the minister's term but even without a public tender, which was then abolished by the Constitutional Court. This government is trying to solve it with a milder measure. Therefore, a public tender will be held, but after that, officials will be accepted for a certain period of time based on talks with the Registrar or Deputy Prime Minister. I do not want to say from this speaker that it is necessary to oppose the Constitution but I am sure that such a provision would have been addressed by the Constitutional Court because the question is whether we are introducing a category of officers at a certain time, whether this is an objective, impartial without checking knowledge, expertise and professional qualifications, possessing an expert examination etc. etc. So we should find a solution that would not only be constitutional but that would make sense of what every government is looking for. In my opinion, one possible solution, to offer an answer, would be to trace what you have, for example in the Office of the President of the Republic. Namely, there are more or less officials in your office. And that's what employees in office head, advisor, head of cabinet, head of protocol, chief secretary of office and spokeswoman. They're officials in an office who are therefore not civil servants. And they're subject to special rules. So they come with a certain president and go with him. The legislator, or made it clear that these are the positions of the President, or the President of the Republic, which are positions of special trust. Perhaps on this trail we should come up with a solution to enlist the Prime Minister's cabinet, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister have people to be legally defined as officials and who, as such, will then work on the mandate of a member of the government. We can define that it is the head of office, head of cabinets or advisors, so several people in the closest environment of a member of the government. And I think that would be, I'm not just going to say it more honestly than legally much more appropriate and constitutionally appropriate in that way to define people rather than try to sort it out legally to satisfy some form and actually one, each government really wants to have the end of key people in the government of people of the highest confidence. Furthermore, I would like to say that this proposed law has 20 articles and that many of these articles are not normative, high-quality. I agree with everything the committees in charge have said, so the committee that I am chairing and the amendments tabled by one representative and many other reasons why this law suffers a lot of complaints. And it is therefore necessary for him to pass the regular procedure, pass the consultation with the interested public and that we can make a quality decision in the second reading. One suggestion related to employees who want to be admitted to work on European projects. It is somewhat surprising that now several years after Croatia's accession to the European Union we have a great need for civil service employees to work on these projects. And now that we have an emergency procedure, we must go beyond the reception plan, beyond any other procedure we have for other civil servants to urgently receive officials who will deal with EU competitions and projects. That's disturbing to me. So what have we been doing for years? It is often said by some of our ministers that he had very high-quality agencies that exist at county and city levels in the use of European funds. In my county there's a county agency, there's a city agency, in the central city, probably in all other counties. And I believe that there are a large number of high-quality officials in these agencies that are in a broader sense in local and regional (regional) self-government that could be used through transfer to the state service. We may not need new employment if we take advantage of the great potential that exists in a series of county or city agencies dealing with the use of EU funds. There are very good practices in some of our counties, mentioned for example in Osijek-Baranja County and Virovitic Podravska and some others. And why don't we take part of the employees who have gained a very good experience in attracting European funds in writing projects, why don't we use them at the state level and we can do so in a very fast procedure, with the agreement of the Head of State and the Body of Local Self-Government. It is legally possible, and I think that would be the best solution we can make in the short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9589	Thank you, Mr. Downhill. We've got four replicas but we'll leave it for the start of the session at 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9590	Here, dear colleagues, we move on with our work. At the presentation of the distinguished representative Robert Podlnjak, we have four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Podolnjak, you first said when you said that a proposal would be accepted which were the committee's proposals not to be adopted by emergency procedure. Your statement is tearing down the government's position. At that time, you noted that it was a common parliamentary practice for laws to be passed by emergency procedure, that this bill was concentrated, that the motioner focused on what is important here, means that people, officials related to funding or writing or evaluation of projects from the EU Funds, believe me, would support it. However, the parts of this law by us are not for an emergency procedure simply because it is a fig leaf for something else. Is that a common practice? Perhaps even in the previous term of the former government, a lot of laws have been passed by emergency procedure. However, the matter of urgency is not only a matter of content but it is also a question of the homogeneity of the government and it is also a question of the majority, the parliamentary majority in the parliament. It is obvious that this problem is because it has been taught experience so far that the leading party of the Patriot coalition, the HDZ has a majority in Parliament, would there be no dilemma at all whether this is going by emergency procedure or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9592	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9593	I thank you for your presentation, but I am still standing at the point that what the Constitutional Court has established in its report that the vast majority of the laws were passed by an emergency procedure, over 80%, was one worrying trend that pointed out that the foundations of parliamentaryism are being destroyed because when you allow almost all the laws to be passed under such a procedure, then Parliament is indeed being denied this crucial debate that we ourselves see necessary. Each government has the logic of wanting to pass a law as quickly as possible and to start implementing it in practice. In my opinion, at this point it has nothing to do with whether the government, this government, can count on a parliamentary majority or not. It is important that no parliamentary majority will be a voting machine that will accept any legal solution without a quality debate. You've had opportunities here to hear MPs who were in previous terms and were in session, were then in the position of a parliamentary minority who now say that for reasons of correctness want to represent the position they represented when they were in the minority and that they can't argue otherwise. It's principled. Now that they're in the parliamentary majority, they're now pushing for what they were for when they were in the minority. It's the best possible solution. I hope that the next parliamentary composition will learn here, I said that this is a good practice and that we should continue and let go now whether there is a parliamentary way in which you keep insisting. This is just a matter of quality consideration of every legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9594	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Downhill! If I understand you correctly, you've opened up a rather interesting topic that I've been thinking about a lot. Since I have experience from the executive, and I have watched this system function for 4 years, and this is the subject of state officials, and I think in some ways in the public, this is the concept, the notion of government officials as such, there is a large division in the public and some political parties, and there is always talk about this number of state officials about the proliferation of government officials or reducing government officials as if it were the biggest problem in the country. You said that every minister or don't know the prime minister should have some narrow circle of associates. I fully agree with you here. And the president of the state you said he had his boss's office, he's got his supervisors, he's got his advisors, they're all government officials, and that's a very clear thing. The prime minister has one smaller round, it is the head, deputy prime minister, chief secretary of the government, spokeswoman. I think at the end of the day when we look at the state officials actually cost a lot less at the end of the day as much as it sounds absurd now and they'll probably experience criticism than civil servants. In fact, officials don't have time to work, so as such they can't even have overtime, they usually work when they work and how long they work. I used to stay the last one in the building. First I come, last I leave. And so are my other fellow officials. Of course, there's always that problem and rights to 6 plus 6. It's something that's likely to be discussed in the future. And I'd just like to say that we've been slaved to some of these formats that have been in existence for many years, that the officials are assistant, deputy minister, minister, possibly state secretary. Perhaps you could consider going in the direction and introducing some new categories of state officials as there are in the Office of Presidents, i.e. All right, president, the most normal thing that works. Excuse me. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9596	Replica reply, distinguished representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9597	... And I understand this exposure of yours as a contribution to finding a long-term sustainable solution that will be constitutionally sustainable, which will be better quality, which will be ultimately cheaper for the state. [[Specially enabled.]] Because at the end of the line, if we have officials we know in advance, and they know they're coming in four years and they're leaving and that we're not going to increase the state administration unlike the current situations when someone comes to four years, but then in that period or before the end of that period they're looking for regular employment in the state administration, they're going to be able to continue their work as a civil servant regardless of how much we don't have an analysis of it, and we don't know how many such officials were there, or employees. The fact is that they have somehow contributed to increasing the number of employees. We'd have a clear situation here every Thursday year that a certain group of officials would leave the state service, and instead they'd have a new one, or you'd stay the same. And in that sense, I believe that we need to look for a solution when we're going to work out a new Law on the obligations and rights of state officials. And I wouldn't have that sodium in terms of the official. One category should be appreciated, properly valorised, and I believe that you, who came from the executive, have just had a better overview of those who worked in that part of the state service, why don't we build a consensus on it. The last government had a situation with a law that fell in the Constitutional Court. We wouldn't want to have a situation if the new law fell in the Constitutional Court. It's actually our responsibility because we're looking for a solution that won't fall in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9598	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Podolnjak, I fully agree with you in the part where you are, but also the Committee on Legislatives, in fact, have given the opinion that such a legislative proposal should go into regular procedure, and not in an emergency procedure of passing a final law, especially for reasons, because it is clear that the reasons, i.e. the conditions in which the laws are passed under the emergency procedure are laid down. So, when it requires defence interests or special state interests. Second, when a certain legislative proposal is in line with the European Union rules. Thirdly, where the law-making or law-making should be prevented or mitigated by certain economic disturbances. Equally and clearly visiblely, none of these conditions are satisfied with the fact that such a legislative proposal is being referred to as an emergency procedure. I am personally offended by the reasoning of the motionor, which is why it is going into this law by an urgent procedure where this explains in a way that needs to be improved, i.e. to speed up the employment process of people working on... funds, i.e. the use of the same ones especially because we know that they have already been in some way excluded from the ban on employment in the state service and thus improved their employment and intervention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that this is the only legal alibi, the reason for urgency is that it is urgent to create a legal alibi for setting up public competitions that will receive people who will be committed to ministers. We can discuss whether ministers and rulings should have people with them who will be of special trust to them in some way. Personally, I believe that they should, but to sell it as something that has the basis for harmonising with European practice as an explanation of the adoption of the Emergency Act and yet to state that it will not have implications for the state budget, or that there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget when we know that we will hire 140 people at a certain time is really not appropriate and it is very ugly in such a way to deceive the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9600	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9601	Here's to the last thing you said. I would like as much as you to reduce further employment in the state service as possible, and therefore I said that if it is possible to use valuable employees in a number of county, regional, urban agencies that we have and are working on EU projects. And I believe it's hundreds of very high-quality people. You often hear, for example, the Regional Development Minister who said that our counties have achieved the most in attracting money and using EU funds. If so, then let's look at only 20 county agencies and I guess each of them has at least one city in Zagreb, many large cities also have their own agencies and what I find very irrational. We have never unfortunately formed some strong regional agencies that would be under the patronage of the state, and many other countries have done so before us far. And maybe that's why they made better use of EU funds. So exactly what the law allows us to use and part of these employees should be used as a means, perhaps even more urgent than hiring additional people who may exist somewhere on the labour market and are just experts in these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9602	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9603	Thank you very much. In the past four years, it has been unthinkable to make a decision on the board beyond what the government has proposed. That's why I said on behalf of the club on Friday before the vote that if we were in favour of something earlier, we'd advocate it now and we'd ask our government and all the other promoters not to send laws into the parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure but in two readings. And I don't see any reason why this law doesn't go into two readings because we're going to vote on it tomorrow, we're going to send comments to the government that already exist, and the government at the next session can consider it, and we can discuss it again in 10 days in this House of Commons. But a colleague of Podolnjak's that a few months ago was unimaginable in this High House, unimaginable. But what I would say and what bothers me in this law is that in some ways this law amnests political employment. So, the hundreds and thousands of people replaced in 2012 were told with politics that people would come to the cabinets, here and there they would go with politics. With politics they will come to public companies with politics will go away. Unfortunately, however, that did not happen. So then it went to the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court brought some kind of a word of its own, and I don't think it's right and it's not fair. Someone made political employment, and there's no reason for that political employment to be changed now. And as for employment for the EU funds, the EU funds' usefulness simply says that at no level, at the level of local self-government units or at the state level, we do not have enough quality and qualified people to do the job. Because if we had enough of them, then the usability of municipalities and cities would be far higher, not as catastrophic. You had that chance yesterday or the day before yesterday. Not to speak at the state level. It is simply an area where any well - trained and newly employed man can bring far, far more benefits than his employment will cost. Because the biggest loss is if Croatia does not withdraw the money that belongs to the EU. That's the biggest loss. Because look, by the end of the year, we have to pay our share of the EU funds and no one is going to ask us. And if we can't pull for it, it's our own fault. So we have to be very careful here, we need to get everyone alive and dead to withdraw as much money as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9604	Next debate on behalf of the HSS and HDS club, distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9605	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome all of you together on behalf of the HSS and HDS club. Right away, I would like to say that the club is also for two readings of this amendment and supplemental law on civil servants. In fact, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I also voted that this bill goes into two readings. And here is the Committee on Legislatives as one of the bodies that is relevant for the assessment of urgency said that this law can go into two readings and that if it really exists, and I believe the Proposer has good intentions when he asks for urgency that it can be done in the next 60 to 75 days and in the second reading and adopt and bring in two readings for the reason that this proposal is important for all of us. And with the aim of helping the motionary government and our ministers to put that intensification that we have put through the budget, together with them, the main emphasis, which is to withdraw funds from the EU through funds and through competitions and applications and project applications to create and human capacities for it. This law and the implementation of this law is just an assumption. And that's why we understand the promoter when he asks for this to go into emergency, but still some things need to be done and made clear to all of us. On the other hand, it is logical that we conduct a public debate this way because everyone has some suggestions. And I believe that this debate, and which was here today in the assembly, is aimed at passing as high-quality law as we can in practice be enforceable and that would bring concrete solutions, not to pass laws by an urgent procedure, and then finally we see that they are not enforceable or that we have problems in their implementation. Regarding the capacities that are, here is my colleague, Poddolnjak mentioned that there are capacities in other state bodies and in county development agencies, development agencies of cities and municipalities. And I am glad that he mentioned that we are constantly stressing that we all agree, withdraw as much EU funding as possible, that we need quality projects, and that these quality projects can only make them from ideas to professional people projects, capable people. They're in local and regional self-government units. The problem is that local self-government units cannot employ new people and there are a lot of young people who want to work on EU projects because of that obligation that they can only employ up to 20% of the original revenues, that their salaries should not exceed that part. Also because of the reduction in the tax revenues of municipalities, cities and counties, we have put them in a bad position as well as now the ministries do not have enough human capacity to work on EU projects. I also stressed that better coordination is needed between the state bodies of the ministries themselves, local and regional self-government, development agencies. Because here is what counterpart Shuker said there was no cooperation and it is bad to withdraw funds from the EU in the previous period. Of course, it should be commended to those counties that have been successful in this, Virovitic, Osijek, Brod-Posavina and others. Here, we look forward to the possibility that these professional people, of course, if they want to come work in the ministries, will be able to withdraw them under this law to state bodies and help state bodies work on these projects. And it is also the link that has so far been missing between local and regional self-government with the ministries. Of course, they should be kept on how long they are employed because they are mentioned here if the minister hires them to leave with the minister. We have a bit of a problem here, if the minister goes away in a month, two or six are not until the end precise in the law which in such cases. Well, I think there's a little work to be done here and see how to regulate it so we don't get a new minister going looking for new people, and we have existing employees. Also, this provision in the proposal to withdraw officials from other state bodies by myself and by us from HSS is a discriminatory distance from a 50km job, I don't think it's acceptable because you said both professional people and in Virovitica, and in Brod, and in Vukovar and they deserve an opportunity if they want to work in these state bodies on EU projects because, of course, they were put there if they wanted to, but it should be specified whether they also have rights to, material rights and otherwise we won't attract them. Because this way it's not through the law clearly spoken. And the problem is keeping these professional people in the ministries because we have an example from the previous period that a lot of young people have passed education, worked on EU projects and eventually went to private companies or consulting companies and it's hard to keep them in resolution bodies. So we need to figure out a way to reward them to keep them for these jobs in state bodies. Also, the problem is the local government itself due to a ban on employment. We have a natural outflow, new people don't hire. It should not always be said that officials in the state administration are the only ones who do nothing or do little work that are brakes because there are also high - quality people who do quality work. They should be rewarded and an opportunity should be opened for them to be involved in such matters. Of course, civil servants should also be equalised in the matter of retirement because in certain state bodies, public institutions leave with the end of the calendar year and not with the date of birth or completion of retirement. The issue of youth stimulation for further education should also be addressed, and there is a major problem in the field through state bodies and state administration that rarely any of the civil servants point to education for writing projects and that there is a chance of new young people sending to education to get a new potential for writing projects and withdrawing funds from the EU. Here in the shortest lines I stand behind having had to depolitize the public administration, to rationalise it to be efficient and efficient but through discussion and through the adoption of laws that will be enforceable on the ground and which will ultimately produce positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9606	Thank you. We have three replicas in this debate. First is the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9607	A colleague of Vlaovic, you said in your statement that you support items, i.e. articles of this law, which will enable the strengthening of human capacities in terms of the use of ESA funds. And I agree with you here. However, that this is just some sort of accompanying and not the main intensity of this law also tells the fact that out of a total of 20 articles of the law whose amendments are proposed by this final law, only three are actually talking about the moderation in which the employment of persons who need to work on these jobs will be faster or more effective. Everything else relates to the creation of a legal alibi for public tenders, i.e. for public competitions, and that should be made clear here. I will repeat, the employment of persons engaged in the use and control of ESA funds has been facilitated in a way in the past government when they were excluded from the employment ban. The European Commission made very clear the standards that we need to meet, or that is, those that we need to further train to use everything that the EU instruments actually provide us with, and that seemed to be the case. Perhaps these three provisions of the law will contribute to faster employment of such persons, more efficient use of EU funds but that is not the point of the story. The whole point of this law is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9608	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davor Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9609	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you have said that you too support this proposal that people are employed in work for European projects and in such a way as to withdraw as much funds as possible to the Republic of Croatia. In other words, or indirectly, you admitted that we had not had enough capacity so far and that we were not successful enough. Of course, this law also speaks of the other part of which you spoke, so in the previous term, you hired a politically defined number of people and you said that with politics you would go and then you hitched us off to carry out these people and to get new jobs. And that's what you need to say openly. I am also proposing to the minister that the next debate should tell exactly which ministry needs how many people, for which types of jobs, for which projects should not be secret and, of course, if such a decision is made and such a law to come with the minister and with the minister, leave what is the problem, so you did so too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9610	The next replica is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. ... Please don't throw it out of your co-worker's bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Pick up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's no reason to be nervous. I also think that Parliament's aim is to democratically, parliamentaryly debate, present our opinions, proposals, and in the best possible ways and arguments, amendments to the laws that will be voted here, primarily for the benefit of the functioning of the state administration and ultimately for the benefit of all our fellow citizens and citizens. My colleague Vlaović, I agree with you and your presentation regarding the fit in the state administration which is insufficient and is not sufficiently related to projects from European funds. But I would actually go back to the key to the problem as it happened. I don't agree with those colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs who pointed out that we don't have enough personnel, the staff has. Croatia has enough professional, young, educated people who could contribute to the efficiency of using money from European funds through their skills and skills. But the main problem came about a little bit more than 4 years ago when the former SDP furniture took responsibility for leading the Croatian state where all the professional staff moved away and put themselves in a similar position. And there was a key to the problem, people who participated among other things and in the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU, who were quite willing to prepare projects of course and take that money from European funds, either they were removed or removed from the state administration and they were quite able to manage the labour market. And then we come up with a key problem, of course depolitisation of expert personnel, which is very important and now a lack of capacity. Because as someone who has succeeded in Europe, Brussels, in the European Union, in the private sector will return to the state administration and when there is already one bad experience that has been removed just to get someone out of a particular political party because they need to be placed somewhere and arrested.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9612	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was reported by the distinguished representative Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think my colleague Mađeric hurt Article 236 and 235. The Rules of Procedure because, in fact, through a replica, she referred me this way to educational correctional measures, warning that democracy should be taught and not yelled out of the bench. I'm sorry, but I'm just being humanly irritated by what my colleague said, I think the past government through the revolving door has made it very clear that it wants to allow ministers to have people out of trust, that they're politically with them coming and going with them. What irritates me now is that this government is doing it again, but it does it in a way that will promote fair and fair public procurements that will employ the most competent and in fact not be so. I apologize for yelling out of the bench but I was simply irritated by this level of hypocrisy where I wanted to do the same thing. in a way that presents it as a fair competition. [[But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9614	Now you've said the line, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure. But, well, I won't tell you the warning you deserve. Ivan Shuker's next replica. And you are, I apologize. The answer to the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9615	No, it's not the answer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's the violation of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Glasovac, injured Rules of Procedure, Article 238, the first time you spoke from the bench you didn't get a word from the Honorable Vice President. Secondly, the last point, item 7, in another way you re-scheduled the session of the Croatian Parliament. I didn't answer your line, if you were careful, you'd know that I answered the line to Mr. Vlaovic, and you came before me. I referred to Mr. Vlaovic's exposure, and you realized that it was directed to you. That's what I give you for right, but you're definitely not right about me. And don't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure like this because you're disrupting the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9616	Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9617	Thank you very much. Kolega Vlaovic, 2010 was an attempt to depolitize the state administration, but when the democratic forces came to power in 2012 then they swept everything and they said we would bring our people to whom we trusted but at the moment we were leaving we would pull them away. However, this law now offers the possibility that those who have come out of the confidence of the will of politics simply stay on. But what I would like to say, in the state administration, is that as Croatia enters the European Union, much has changed. Were those who were then at the head of certain organisational units in the state administration watching the process statically or were they looking at it dynamically? If they had looked at it dynamically, then the use of EU funds would have been far higher. They looked at him staticly, and they thought nothing should change as if nothing had happened. And nothing really happened except that it opened up to Croatia at that time to take 780m euros and when you look at the budget you will see how much they took. So the purpose of depoliticalising the state administration in such a small state as Croatia is to give them higher education personnel, because the administration is an effective real science. Efficient administration and the knowledge of the real administration can only be done by people who know the job. That's the administration, but she needs to be paid, and she needs to be rewarded. And we now have a situation if you want to get rid of the unemployed then you have so much occupation and walking around the courts to sit down and put it aside somewhere, let it squat on the side better than you're dragging around the courts. I sincerely hope that we will stop thinking about bringing along similar and political people who like to lick after you and actually hiring people who know how to do their job. And that starting with the tax study, the systems for the education of people in the state administration will return.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9618	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davor Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9619	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Shuker, I agree with you that the depolitisation of public administration is not always possible only as a policy we must tell where we are going, where there is a border, which are professional places which are not subject to political change and honestly say if someone has come with the minister to the ministry as announced that when this government and this political elite loses power to then go with them. Of course I support that all of this goes through public tenders and former personnel based on this law can stay if 60 days before the end of their term they submit a request if adopted, then the head of the body can leave them if he thinks they've done well, that they're professional people. I hope that by the second reading most of those who stayed in the ministries have passed by with previous authority will expire that possibility and that they will not be able to report and that this is not written because of them because of what you said we were bad at realising and withdrawing funds from the European funds, they do not deserve me to stay in ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9620	Thank you. In individual debates, a respected representative of Peja Grbin reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this law, we cannot avoid certain remarks made and the previous law concerning state officials. But in the case of this law, they're much bigger. The previous law concerning state officials was a simple law which only maintained in the legal order one norm and one provision that already existed in the legal order, and then we asked for the public debate to be carried out and then we asked that the law be discussed in the ordinary procedure. However, this is about an extremely serious law that brings up a certain newspaper in official relations affecting tens of thousands of people in the Republic of Croatia. I will be extremely rude and I will say that it is a shame that such a legislative proposal goes into procedure not only by emergency procedure but also without prior consultation with the interested public. Afterwards, I will remind you, especially, that in the area covered by these legislative proposals, your political party, in the negotiations, has requested that for all the laws to be addressed in the parliamentary procedure, consult with the interested public, be careful now always for a period of no less than 30 days. At the first step right from that resistor, your resor who cares about the Law on the right to access information, what you asked others to do, you violated yourself. You know if you didn't know, I've already told you about this before, the Constitutional Court has told you not to conduct consultations with the interested public is a presumption of a formal non-constitutional regulation that itself is sufficient for its abolition. Please once again, accept that this law is going into a regular procedure which I think is already a clear consensus in the Assembly and then, between the first and second reading, conduct a consultation with the interested public in order to remove this assumption of formal non-constitution of the law. This is the first comment and I would say given the reasons, given what this remark, if it is not corrected, can also lead to the most important remark related to this law. But let's move on. And let's stay on constitutionality before we move on to illogicality. I today, as I believed yesterday and in 2012 when we passed these laws, believe that the system of revolving doors or the system of those officers who come and go with officials is good, that they have their own racio and that it is least contaminating for the state service and in this context I fully understand your proposal and direction in which you went but I am afraid that it does not eliminate the problem that the Constitutional Court pointed out in its decision in -1 2036/2012 of 2015. In its decision, the Constitutional Court indicated that the lack of a public tender in the service of those officers with special status is not the only problem. The Constitutional Court has problemed precisely the fact that these officials are employed for a certain period of time and I will read to you: “The civil service is generally based on a public tender and their advancement has a career character that should not be affected by political facts, and therefore the Constitutional Court considers that the employment of civil servants implies equality and the choice of candidates who show that, according to their professional and professional skills, they are the most capable of performing a particular job of the government.” What does that mean? This means that the Constitutional Court is unconstitutional and the very notion of civil servants at a certain time regardless of how they entered the State Service. Another in a row not to say bad, not good decisions of the Constitutional Court but another in a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court that everyone in the Republic of Croatia must respect. So, two reasons that point to the formal and material instability of the law at this point. Furthermore, the observation I would point out is an observation concerning the employment of employees on this to simplify, to specific EU funds-related jobs, I support. But the problem is, there's no mechanism to guarantee that these officers don't go to other jobs when they become civil servants. So it's like we have two roads leading to state service, accelerated and shortened. I remind you, Croatia had a situation where it had two roads to enter the state service, one accelerated, guaranteed admission to the Central Intelligence Agency, others to all other state services and then the director of the Central Intelligence Agency often used this accelerated method of admission to the state service to hire some people there who once wore his last name and then transferred them to customs. I do not want you to be burdened by the fact that you have made your legal proposal possible and therefore I ask you to address this observation and to assure me that this is not going to happen. Also, I would like to point out to you the fact that the attorney general has made a series of remarks that some of them have had, some of which I have passed on to the amendments that I have submitted to this law. Of course, if I understand the intensities of my colleagues, we only know that there are many things in this House that can be changed from debate to voting this law goes into two readings. Please consider these remarks which have also been translated into amendments because I hold that certain remarks are particularly important, particularly important and their failure to adopt them could also lead to the unconstitutional nature of the law. And that's where I'll single out two of them. The first is the one concerning the right to appeal. I understand once again that I will repeat the intensity to speed up the procedure and simplify that not everyone is invited, that at one stage determines who has met the conditions etc. etc. at the test. But I think we need to allow any candidate who has responded to the contest to make an appeal against the solution. I know this will make the procedure more difficult, I'm fully aware of that, but given our constitutional rights to appeal, if we deny that complaint to certain persons who, for example, were unable to access for formal reasons, and they think that the reason they were excluded from further proceedings is not justified, if we deny them the possibility of appeal, I'm sure someone will use it as a reason to challenge the constitutionality of this law. So I ask you to seriously consider this observation, for this is the article 6 that amends Article 52. So, I suggest you adopt and modify for the second reading that this item reads: “According to the solution set out in the first article, an unsatisfactory candidate may appeal to the committee within 15 days in a way that includes all candidates. The following observation, and I will stand there, refers to Article 14 which speaks of who or may not be in the public ministry. And he's talking about people who are convicted of crimes. I fear that the decision proposed by the law does not respect the provision of Article 18. Law on the legal consequences of conviction of criminal records and rehabilitation. This article provides that the freedoms and rights of persons for whom rehabilitation took place cannot differ from the rights and freedoms of persons who have not committed a criminal offence. In this context, I believe that it is necessary to amend the article in question first in a way that is to be included in it and thus respects the possibility of rehabilitation for a special offence, because in this way we will again say that we will prevent the possibility that someone tomorrow or the day after that to refer the procedure to the Constitutional Court where they will be called for his rights to be violated, although the special law governing the very issue of rehabilitation is essentially removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9622	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9623	Mr. Grbin, you're talking about the shame of this law or proposal, procedure and way. We can all make mistakes, we can accept that. However, Mr. Grub's shame is where you brought the state. It's the biggest shame. And tell the minister what you did to wipe out all the personnel around you, to do various ways. In fact, all you've been doing is infatuating. We must start from the Croatian forests, from HEP, from all companies owned by the state and still owned by the state. It's a shame where you brought the state. That should tell you and admit it. But speaking of experts, unfortunately at the reception of the service, the only profession that was needed from the bottom to the top is your party's party card. It's the worst thing that could have happened, and I can testify to that from my area. So, I come as it was admitted to companies, institutions where the state is owned. If you're interested, I won't have enough time, it would take me 45 minutes to count it all. Unfortunately, what our young people must have is a party card or a SDP or any other political option in order to survive in Croatia. And if they're lucky to get hired or have to be half-trons, that's the problem, that's the biggest problem. And these changes will happen, of course. Minister, listen to some advice that's good, I know you're professional, and you, Mr. Grbin, ask yourselves, as we all are here where our youngsters are going. Because the only criterion you had was a party card.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9624	Replication response, distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9625	Dear Mr. Vice President, first of all, I apologize for holding my cell phone in my hand while I speak. But the reason is simple. I left my laptop at home, so I have my data on my phone, so now I'm going to read you one piece of information, and I'm extremely glad that Mrs. Botski is sitting here, who knows that information just as well as I do, because she's been in the state administration for a very long time. In 23.12.2011, 55600 people were employed in the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia. Three and a half years later for the first time in 25 years of Croatian independence, the number of employees in the state administration of the Republic of Croatia was reduced in a way that employs 52700 people. 2900 people in the state administration less. This is a reduction in the number of employees of 5%, not only a significant step in reducing the costs of the state administration, but also part of the pre-election promises made by our government before it took office. At the same time, if you look at Mr. Bull, I'd like you to listen to me if you can for two minutes, it's not hard to concentrate. From 2010 and 11th to 2015, expenditure on employees at the level of the Republic of Croatia has been reduced by exactly one billion kuna. Again, for the first time in history. Unfortunately, part of the Croatian officials responsible felt the same way. But it was our obligation to bring our budget into line with the real possibilities of the Croatian state. What did you do when you came to power? You've increased everything. So at my finding of shame, I'm absolutely staying, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9626	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9627	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Grbin in your presentation on two roads related to the employment of civil service officers, and I can tell you, given the experience and everything we've been through with you in 4 years, that it wasn't two roads, but one was a highway, especially for members of SDP and HNS. It was going into that APIS down there that they were going in the front door, at the last even at one point that director cried out to the public to stop. Let them stop calling him because he can't hire them as much as they call him. And that's how it went. And then there were these no-public competitions as a new moment for the Croatian Bundesliga policy, come to us all in the cabinets, if someone is not employed by these SDP parties, please contact the minister, and you will go in with him as well. Some, however, took advantage of it, so they took care of it in time, there are several, they knew they had to leave, so they stayed in the public service. That's what the media wrote about. So that revolving door of yours didn't work out the way you thought. So it's the rest of them. The fact is that even some of them are now assistants, they're being held by the director of the agency all you want, and you're still acting like something, and you're rebelling on the other side. You guys are great right now. Your members are all taken care of, one way or another. And now you say it's no good. And one of the former ministers was looking for a police officer on the road, offering them a job. And then when it broke out if you don't remember, we didn't forget it, then he said it wasn't a little joke. And you're offering us now morality, credibility and your models how something should work. So give it a little bit of your time. I know, I said you reset yourself and forgot you were the government. But it wasn't what you represent yourself for, and the people sent you in a nice fight, whatever you say now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9628	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, given that you were Mr. Kalmeta's State Secretary, I am a little afraid in your presence at all to mention highways so that another hand might not be thrown on the tunnel. But let's put it aside. It's true that there was a system of revolving door. It's true. And it is true that the Constitutional Court abolished it. It is true that this system of revolving door you are now returning to the law. So it's true that we all agree here that the system of revolving the door has its own racio. So now I'm not telling you here that you're introducing something that's wrong. I'm just telling you that at last both we from this and you from the other side of the assembly came to the point that this is about the system that Croatia needs. Four years ago, you said it was wrong. Today you're proposing it yourself. Today your government is a proposing, today the ministers in your government who come from the HDZ line voted in favour of this bill. And we basically did it in that part,... You're saying the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not proposing this law? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask you, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, to see if the government has voted on this bill because counterpart Boris has knowledge that we do not have. Here on the cover is the signature of the respected Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic. As far as I know, he's the president of our country's government. A colleague of mine, your president voted in favour of this law. Your party president voted for this bill. The problem is with that law that he makes those mistakes that the Constitutional Court has told us about. And I can now say here that it's good or bad, the fact is that the Constitutional Court's decision is here and we have to respect it. I'm just asking you now not to enter into that once again our law falls in the Constitutional Court because of the mistakes we know how to remove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9630	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9631	Thank you very much. I am truly sorry that after a good legal analysis you entered the political... But you and everyone in this Higher House who manipulates the number of civil servants already learn that there are between 8.5 and 9,000 civil servants and tenants in Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] The number of the 55 grand you're talking about is the military, the MUP, the judiciary, the IRS and the Customs Administration. These are services that are according to this and that law and even by some internationally signed conventions of the Republic of Croatia and must have so many people. What this law applies to is basically about 8.5 thousand people. That's it. You can wave all you want. Customs and IRS were established by special law. In the MUP, it's clearly defined for as much security as it is. So that's your 55 grand. And to take a closer look then you would know that in the period from 2003 to 2007 was the least reduction of what you say to civil servants and tenants because then there were major reforms in the Croatian Army and then the number of people who were in the MORH on the salary decreased. So it would be best if you stayed on your legal analysis which is good, but also that 155 at the Wine City Hospital is probably some consequence of HDZ or something like that again. However, I think that when we discuss such a law, everyone should try to finally make this state administration a service and a service to Croatian people and Croatian citizens, and these petty political tricks do not work for anyone. And I'm saying, I'm sorry you ruined a good argument with politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9632	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9633	I thank you, colleague Shuker, for thus assessing my debate, and I have indeed tried to keep it within the scope of the profession. However, coalition representatives, most of them did not give it to me. So that's how they throw the stone at me, I'll get it back. And as for the number if they're lying to me and I'm lying to you. According to data available to the Ministry of Administration on 23 December 2011, 55 588 civil servants and non-judicial deputies, civil servants and tenants were employed in state bodies. State officials and deputies shall be paid from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about everyone here, at the Department of Defense, there have indeed been reductions in the work concerning the military, but there have been reductions in the works concerning the administration. In the Ministry of the Interior there were reductions concerning police officers but there was also a reduction concerning the administration. And it all goes into this number. And when we're discussing a law that affects the rights and obligations of civil servants and deputies, then we need to talk about the law and then we need to talk about the legal provisions because it's our job, but it's also our duty to talk about and worry about the people that this law applies to, and these are the people that I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9634	Thank you. Finally respected Minister Dubravka Jurlina Alibegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9635	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament thank you very much for the very comprehensive debate and very constructive remarks regarding the proposal of this Law on State Officials. So, of course, we will accept the suggestion that the law goes into two readings and we will also accept the suggestion that we will go into the public consultation process with citizens to get the best Imputations and improve this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. I would now not respond to all the individual comments we have received, but allow me only two indications and it is related to employment in jobs for EU funds. And there was a lot of debate on both sides of the assembly about the need for employment in these jobs. So at the time of the preparation of this final bill, simply the Ministry of Administration did not have all relevant data, and in the meantime we received data from the resolution ministry or the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds on the needs of these jobs. I can tell you that in the state bodies, i.e. all ministries, there are needs for these jobs, a total of 222 employees of which, in fact, additionally requires 235 jobs in central agencies, funds and long public bodies with public authority. So there is a great interest and a need for employment on EU-funded projects. In fact, my second comment concerns the fact that there is even a concern that there is some possibility that people will be employed by the EU fund staff and for the management of EU-funded projects and that they will enter the state service at a small door and that they will actually be employed and deployed to other jobs. However, the proposal for this text of the law in Article 2 makes it very clear that the list of jobs related to the management and control of the use of European Structural and Investment Funds will be determined by the Government on a proposal from the central body of the state administration responsible for the affairs of EU funds. So I think it's a very clear definition that such opportunities will not be. Finally, I would say that with due attention we will all arrive today and we will try to install the comments we have heard and try to put into the final proposal for the text of the law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9636	Thank you. There is one replica of the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you have just said that after the adoption of this law, the Croatian government will hire 222 employees probably in ministries that will need to deal with withdrawing EU funds. 235 employees in agencies and other bodies and probably around 140 newly employed ministers' offices. That's a total of 597 people. I repeat, here in the bill of law you said that the application of this law will not require the provision of additional funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. What you just said indicates that it's not really true and that it won't be so. And my other more rhetorical question is whether hiring these 597 new people only through the adoption of this one law is whether these promised reforms and how much they will make, contribute to the promise between the other and the Most in the negotiating positions on both sides before the constitution or the formation of the majority that the state administration will reform in a way that makes it more efficient, cheaper and more efficient. I'm afraid he won't, but alive either, so see, I wish you good luck with that. Unfortunately, this doesn't give me any special hope. We can see that the principle of HDZ all these years is the same and everything else is nuances.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9638	The Minister's Honorable Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9639	Dear MPs, please allow, therefore, the aim of this government is indeed reform measures and that the public administration would be effective, quality and that the services provided by the public administration would be good, quality and to the satisfaction of the citizens and to the satisfaction of the economy. This is therefore the goal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I think it is the goal of all of us, as well as the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, no matter what political option they belonged to. I must also say, we have all heard today on several occasions from MPs from different political options that withdrawing and spending EU funds is a single strategic set and it is a very important priority in order to also contribute to quality projects that will contribute to the country's social and economic development. We also know that in the existing public administration bodies there are people who are also working on EU projects. We have heard today that public bodies lack people, that some places are simply not filling and that they are being sited and that projects that are already in realisation and implementation have planned resources so that people who work on these jobs can benefit from their work. Therefore, the proposal for this law simply does not plan to burden the state budget with some new expenditure, but simply we want, in fact, to regulate the system by means of the bill, to arrange those activities that have not been sufficiently well solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9640	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And with this, we're finishing work for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions at 9.30 p.m. The session was interrupted at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-12-0.u9641	The following is the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.49. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System have proposed to the Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.49 will be held in the first reading. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final proposal for this law. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the proposal for a conclusion, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary bodies, I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Who's for please? I'm asking for a result. 124 for, not one against, not one abstention. I find that the conclusion has been reached unanimously. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I see some already raise their hands. First, distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi, go ahead.
