ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6959	He's the first one to raise a colleague of Milly's, and I've got to admit, and I'm giving him a head start.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6960	Okay. It could be, here's my fault, I wasn't looking. So then we'll ask a fellow Spica to say what he wants to talk to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6961	I ask a 10 minute break to clarify some things for these pension reforms, since there are a lot of issues, a lot of ambiguities, and there are all the wrong information to be given to the public, so I would like to explain in 5 minutes what I want to say and what it is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6962	I'm sorry, but I didn't realize what the subject was.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6963	Peace reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6964	All right, pension reform. Okay. Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6965	Also on behalf of the Croatian Party of Pensioners and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina, I am looking for a 10-minute break to clarify some things related to pension reform because they are indeed placed to whom it was appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6966	Thank you. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6967	Thank you very much on behalf of the National Minorities Club for asking for a break also from 10 minutes due to the difficult situation in non-profit media but also in the media of the National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6968	Thank you. Dear Representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6969	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes to report on the illegalities related to the Srđ golf project in Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6970	Okay. Dear representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6971	And I am looking for a 10 minute break for the SDP club to present a problem that is related to the organisation of university, European university games that will be held soon in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6972	Thank you. And a distinguished representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6973	Thank you very much. I'd also like to ask for a break so that I can continue on the crisis in the dairy sector to talk about the crisis...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6974	Wait a minute, you can't You can't. Your club's already asked for a break. [[Invader Vukovac: Can't do two.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6975	I can't even do it on my own? Okay, okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6976	I thought there was something else you wanted to say because the club asked for a break, according to that. And distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. ... Peace reform. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No one else, OK. So I'll see you at 9.50. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Please take your seats so we can start working. Here you go, fellow Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6978	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. We've been talking a lot lately about certain reforms, and since the "Block Retired Together" is alive interested in this reform of the pension system to the public we want to say a few things, but we'll start with some clarification. Someone says, so I'm not sure if it's true, but someone says that HDZ controls Croatia's broadcasting, and since there has been a whole series of shows on this topic, "Block Retired Together" has not yet been called. So either HDZ doesn't control television or it's the fact that it's still run by someone else, or third. Now a few facts regarding this pension reform, especially from the point of view, since the "Block of Retired Together" by all relevant polls continues to be the first coalition partner by rating within the Patriot coalition as much as anyone likes it or doesn't like it. Furthermore, the law that was amended in 2013 for doing the Kukuriku coalition and defined that it would go to retirement at 67 years but by 2038 now in these reforms for no reason whatsoever, without any coercion it moved to 2028 which seems completely unnecessary to me. On the other hand, the Croatian public should know that the pension system is exclusively in the Croatian domain. So, exclusively. So no one can make us if we don't. What's going to happen with this, so with this reduction in deadlines, that is, the increase to 67 years cumulatively means that two years of workday extension. It means two years in the battery at the end of the budget savings because for two years I say cumulatively as if no pension would be paid. So the savings are 60 billion at the end of this whole process when the circle is turned on the one hand, and on the other hand we're going to increase the number of unemployed by 90,000 people. I say when the whole circle spins, when we meet all the conditions. Why do I not know at this time, when we have a fact that, according to the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, only since Croatia's entry into the EU, 97,000 people have left Croatia. That means we'd have 400,000 unemployed right now. This is a completely wrong policy, and if it stays this way again I repeat "Block Retirementers Together" this won't accept, and then along the way a little commendation to HSU who remembered. I say after 12 years of hibernation raise your voice. But he could raise his voice in 2013 when this happened and the "Block of Retired Together" repeatedly with statements and publicly said that we were absolutely against it. Then they told us, but you're not a parliamentary party. Here we are today a parliamentary party for several months, information for all the media, and then we can say something today. And today, counterpart Silvano Hrelja announces that they will do the revolution, that there will be a referendum. My dear colleague, I would have been very glad that you did it in 2013, but I'm glad you're going to do it now. Make sure you can count on the "Retired Block Together". But you need to ask yourself a question and how many pensioners will now trust you when you stayed in a coalition in 2013 that did something like this. So, I'm afraid it won't come up with any particular understanding of the electoral body that we're practically applying to. At this point, starting with these reforms in this way is commendable. Someone's gonna say better than nothing. But there's no saving this pension system unless there's a significant increase in the number of jobs, so job creation. Because it's normal everywhere in the world for jobs to open, to close every day. But the fact is that it's more closed with us than it is with us. Therefore, only the right to reform within the sphere of the economy can provide answers to these questions as to how sustainable the pension system is. In this way one of them is absolutely clear that they can't, but that doesn't mean that it should go over the back of the pensioners or the most endangered groups. And on top of that, one piece of information. I'm gonna use these 30 seconds. I see a lot of clubs are announcing work and amending the executive law. So give the men a deal, will the SDP work now, the Most, the HDZ, the BUZ. What do we do? We'll do 10 executive laws. We started doing something, but we don't have enough resources to do it. Find yourself, get rid of it. This is one of the crucial problems of the Republic of Croatia. That's one of the problems. And the others, we open it up and we do something to keep the jobs open. Everything else is cosmetics, because without creating a new value, without significant GDP growth, all this is a run. And one little piece of information from my colleague, Silvano Hrelja, please don't go public again that the president of Buz is talking nonsense, because I never told you that, nor will I tell you. My position to defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6979	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HSU club, Stipe Petrina will speak to the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6980	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I really thought that fellow Spica would talk to the arguments about the pension system, about how it came. He's obviously up to a public deal with me. Nor did I bother him, nor did I help him get even 131 preferential votes in the last election and become a parliamentary representative. So, I'm not gonna help him, or help him. So it's his destiny and there's a parliamentary party thanks to its coalition partner and he has to listen now, now there's no dilemma. Of course, the Croatian party of pensioners, and I will never justify it, has never accepted an extension from 65 to 67 years to retire, has been restrained under the law, giving amendments to the bill that have not passed, which have been rejected. And since that was scheduled for 2038, we said we had enough time and enough more political games to erase it. Now things got a little bit worse with this proposal because this moved 10 years shorter. For our coalition governments, and even now, this measure doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense that such a traumatic thing is being introduced into the transition from 65 to 67 in two years. One cultural Germany did so faced with its labour market situation and pension system transition period from 2014 to 2038. So, 24 years. They increase the internship from 65th to 67th every year for one month. It's something called planically, in line with the expected increase in life and the development of technology in its society. We don't have any plan. We just remember that we can raise someone in the European Commission. None of us asked for this to be done as suggested in so-called. pension reform. And you're not going to find me a written clue anywhere that the European Commission is asking us to do this, but we're running out to be more Catholics than the Pope, or our government. We've come up with something that's positive in our pension system, that going to early retirement is about years of internship. It was done by Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's administration, which asked for the equalisation of the retirement age of men and women by 2020. Then we were opposition, my dear fellow and we roared loudly and that transitional period was moved to 2030. And that's what Jadranka Kosor's administration defended in Brussels. The administration of Zoran Milanovic has defended in Brussels for the last two years what we have introduced into the pension system, and we have introduced a ratio of years of internships and early pensions that those people who have to leave before retirement will not be punished their entire lives for having to leave, which they have no choice, which they do not have companies, which they have been fired. And two years in a row, the administration defended the position and such a model of early retirement and 60 years and 41 years of training, so going to retirement for a long-term no-penalization internship. So, all those elements that were introduced inside. We were part of that model with one point of opposition, an extension of the retirement age from 65 to 67. We openly admit it, and we're proud of that story. However, I am openly telling you that neither at that time nor today we agree with this increase because it has no basis and no benefit to the state budget either at present or in the long term. The only thing that will produce will produce the same effect as in 2010 when Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor increased the pension so we had 21 thousand early retirements. This year too, there will be a stampede of early pensions because citizens have the right to use more favourable rights for themselves. So it will be the only effect, the current higher budget cost, than these proposed reforms. There's still going to be a chance to talk about it. We'll talk this way and emotionally and sharply because we know what we're talking about and we know what we're defending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6981	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6982	Thank you, Mr. President. The media of national minorities except for the informative function of preserving the identity of minority communities. The position of national minorities is always risky because of their numbers, regardless of which national minority they are, and so are Croats in other countries, they are constantly threatened by assimilation due to the systematic lack of basic institutions of school, educational, media which they can never have, as most would be too expensive. They're threatened with cultural poverty. So, for example. The schools of national minorities cannot be as numerous and have as much direction as the schools of the majority, and therefore students must be educated in other schools. And of course I can't have so many textbooks. Of course, the minority cannot have as many newspapers as the majority population has, or so many cultural magazines or children’s publications. At best, we can have one newspaper, one weekly, one newspaper for young people or for children and one cultural magazine. My minority of Italians has had one daily, one two-week list, one children's monthbook and one three-month-olds underlining for culture for 72 years. And it bothers me. To Minister Hasanbegovic, who is bothered by everything that is different from his worldview, you see yesterday and "Zarez" practically abolished, one of the best magazines that we have and countless other things, I don't have that much time to explain how much damage has been happening lately in the field of culture in general, not just non-profit media. He abolished, so Minister Hasanbegovic abolished half of the donation to "EDIT" our publishing house that produces and these daily newspapers that are the only newspapers of any national minority and the only newspaper in the foreign language in Croatia. In addition, it is authoritative with its performance and boldness, he said next year he would lift the other half without asking the high house that brings the budget, does not bring the culture minister's budget, he suggests it if he proposes it. Because it says Minister Hasanbegovic is not a culture. And you know why? Because it is not in Croatian but in minority language. It's got to be relegated to... Where minorities belong, not culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had to fire for such a worldview of nine employees and reduce all others already below the average salary by 25%, the EDIT will endure, it tells Minister Hasanbegovic but, at the shame of Croatia, will not endure with money from Croatia. Unfortunately, he'll make it with the country's money. I repeat to the shame of Croatia where we live. I'll finish the message, I'll finish the message to all those who think we're ethic businessmen. Yesterday we met, a colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic and I with Croatians from Hungary. Croatia provides several hundred thousand kuna for Croatians from Hungary. Do you know how many donations the Croats from Hungary receive from the Hungarian state? Please wash your ears, 100 million euros a year. And do you know how many Croats there are in Hungary? Between 30,000 declared probably 50 grand. Here, we, these are those relationships, I know, of course, what situation we live in, but Hungary is in crisis, too. What do you want me to say to all of you who talk about ethno businessmen? I mean in a shameful way that has spread, which hasn't even come from the left, and from the right at the beginning, but unfortunately from the left, but the right hand has accepted it by hand. What do you want me to say? Long live Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6983	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the esteemed representative of Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6984	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I thank you for the opportunity to address colleagues and colleagues of representatives and the Croatian public today for the three-year anniversary of the first referendum organised by citizens and that referendum in Dubrovnik where citizens of the city of Dubrovnik had the opportunity to show themselves about the Srđ golf project. I will take the opportunity to remind you of the results of this referendum, then 10, almost 10,5 thousand Dubrovičana said no to this project, about 1800 Dubrovnikers declared ZA. And the referendum failed solely for reasons because the then Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Dubrovnik Mayor and local politicians who later joined in a shameful Dubrovnik deal did everything, they put themselves absolutely into the service of a private investor and actually persuaded those few more who were in order not to come out so that the conditions of the referendum were not met. And just then, the referendum didn't work out precisely because of the nadal law on the referendum. I want to inform you of the disastrous consequences that the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik will suffer if this government continues to support this project that rests on a whole series of illegalities which is no project of sports recreational character but one pure speculant developer project. This is best witnessed and phased in the issue of building permits because investor's intention is exclusively to obtain building permits, increase land value and resell it in phases. And those aren't my words it's also the investor himself repeatedly repeated. At the end of its term, the former government has issued a locational license at the end of its mandate by treating this project under the Strategic Investment Projects Act as a first step in its realisation. How dilettantly the government acted at that time is the following facts. The local authorisation has been issued even though there is a powerful verdict of the High Administrative Court that changes in the spatial plan from 100 to 310 hectares when the procedure was increased from 100 to 310 hectares of illegal and that verdict was never carried out by the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County because it is known that the spatial plans under which the procedures are being adopted are also being amended. The environmental impact study was also illegally extended during Minister Zmajlovic because there was a verdict that the project must be returned from 310 to 100 hectares. The project technical documentation also established that the project technical documentation drew up roads that do not exist at all in the GUP or in the shamefully adopted urban plan of the Srdje plateau arrangement. UNESCO has been seeking for years to develop new criteria that will increase the level of protection of the city of Dubrovnik and only on these criteria will it be possible to judge whether the construction of an apartment heritage on Srdje under the cover of golf threatens or does not endanger Dubrovnik as part of a protected world cultural heritage. The last UNESCO monitoring which was a few days ago insists that any permit before its release is delivered to them for consent, and it is therefore clear this much haste of investors to issue construction permits as soon as possible so that UNESCO does not know about all the illegalities. If this government really issues building permits for this project without prior compliance with the laws and judgments and the results of UNESCO's monitoring, it risks causing millions of damage worth hundreds of millions of kuna to the citizens of Dubrovnik. Namely, it is not defined who will bear hundreds of millions of kunas worth of work on the construction of roads and others, infrastructure and coverage, and the healing of the tunnel that the city of Dubrovnik provides with drinking water. And without building these infrastructure content, this project cannot even begin to be realized. After the permit is issued, we will position investors to force the city of Dubrovnik to bear all these costs because they will threaten to sue damages because the project cannot be realised without their construction. This project is in direct connection with the arrangement of the Museum of Homeland War in the Imperial Fortress of Srdje because the investor is also the authority of concessions in the area. And it says enough what the relationship of the then government was because the dignity of the Homeland War entrusted to a private investor and gave him that between the commercial content of nightclubs, the restaurant accommodates the Museum of Homeland War. So much for respecting the defenders and their victim. However, even then, the authorities of Dubrovnik did not do so legally because the concession contract was broken by itself because the purpose of the fortress is imperial according to the concession contract completely contrary to the purpose set, the purpose is mostly cultural and today the commercial content is being placed in that space. Also, the mayor of Dubrovnik does not respect contractual obligations. He refused to charge the investor a penalty due to the failure of parts of the concession contract, also an inversion of the project for which approval is sought, there is no approval of the conservative department in Dubrovnik at all. Therefore, as also here the minister, the building minister, is required to suspend the process of issuing a building permit, carry out inspection and annul the unlawfully issued calls. I insist that the mayor of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County act in accordance with the law and execute the final judgment of the High Administrative Court and return it, this project to legal gauges. We simply send one wrong message about Croatia as a country that has a regulated investment...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6985	Dude, 39 seconds more, let's go five minutes, we know it exists, let's not go too far. I've always tolerated for a few seconds, but let's not overdo it. On behalf of the SDP Club, the following is spoken by the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6986	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that you are all familiar with the fact that in May 2013 the Republic of Rijeka and Zagreb in strong competition won the homestead of European university games that should be held for exactly 77 days. Right after that, on August 1st, the state actually recognized the importance of maintaining such a world event of exceptional importance not only for the promotion of the Republic of Croatia but also for the promotion of the academic community and university sport, it established a special organisational commission, thus giving its symbolic strong support to this organisation in this commission, i.e. the organisational committee. All of the then presidents of the Republic, the prime minister, were represented by most of the ministers. In addition to this political and state support, an organisational committee was established where the Croatian University Sports Federation actually contributed the most, and the group of enthusiasts actually made huge efforts for two years to show Croatia its beautiful sports, university and state-owned face in July this year. I must point out that representatives of the cities of Rijeka and Zagreb as well as representatives of the two universities were included in the entire organization. I think that in the organisational and financial sense of this game should be ranked with the World Handball Championship which was held in Croatia in 2009 and should be greater than the famous University of 1987, which meant one Renaissance for the Republic of Croatia, especially for the city of Zagreb and for the Mediterranean games. So far, investment so far means the value of the project is half a billion kuna. Of these, 400 million were taken from the European Funds to restore university infrastructures in homes in Flower Village and Stjepan Radić in the city of Rijeka and to invest in sports infrastructure. So the state there was very little financial burden on the organization itself. And what's going on? It happens that actually four months things are standing at the end, actually standing, 77 days until the maintenance of the so-called. The unversiades, i.e. European University Games, are now another small part of the 38 million kuna needed for the organisation of the games paid by the countries through quotations to their athletes are actually questioning the participation of Croatian athletes or Croatian students in these games. The situation is even more ridiculous if it is known that the amount that the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the State or the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should be allocated, that is, 3 million kuna. Therefore, I ask you, in order to avoid this great debauchery and to contribute to this important project, that today we send strong political support to these games and in some way commit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, that this will, in some way, be carried out by this message in action and that we pay the necessary funds so that our athletes of the roof organization can be properly prepared for these games. I also use the opportunity to congratulate yesterday's appointed assistant minister of science, education and sports for sports portfolio Ms. Janica Kostelic. I wish her a lot of success in her work and I was particularly impressed by her statement that what she sees as her mission in the ministry is actually promoting sports and involving young people in sports, so here's the chance that Mrs. Janica is a new assistant that this part of the ministry has been beheaded for 4 months and then maybe we'll rewrite it, this fact that we haven't done anything in 4 months. I ask Mrs. Janica Kostelic from this pay phone to turn her mission into a work next week and make one significant step for Croatia to really show everything it can and make a big profit as well as a promotion. Let us not forget that only from VAT in these 400 million infrastructure investments the Republic of Croatia is already winning because it has already achieved revenue of 100 million kuna. It should not be mentioned specifically which are all the benefits that await us during the maintenance or 15 days of the games and after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6987	Thank you very much. And the last speaker will be on behalf of the HDZ Club the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6988	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues will begin by congratulating Janica for the simple reason that what my colleague Glasovac was talking about was the legacy of the former assistant minister of sports. It's not just the university where the ministry has fulfilled its 10 million kuna obligation. Someone has allowed an increase of 3 and a half million, but it is not something that will create a problem and that will question this universal maintenance. I think it's far more important, and as a former part of the team at the Ministry of Science, Education of Science and Sports, you should have known that all national alliances are fully involved in helping organisations and material and professional, etc. But when we talk about sports, then on behalf of the club, I'd like to warn you of one more thing. Well, after all, I am here in a certain way and a representative of athletes because I am the head of a national alliance, which is a political match with the Croatian Olympic Committee, not an amendment to the rules on the award of gambling funds. I think it's far more dangerous and far worse than what's being said about the university, which is that the former assistant minister in his reckoning shared the money as he wills, not as it used to be by some criteria and that the projections for the 2016 budget did not increase the funding for sport. So they are not foreseen, because someone thought that the Croats would not go to the Olympic Games and at this point all Croatian athletes who are starting to prepare, and my basketball players have an Olympic tournament qualified in Turin at 7 months. I can practically not get the money from the Croatian Olympic Committee because these money is not secured in the state budget. If I'm not mistaken, the budget was being prepared by someone else. But I sincerely hope this government doesn't treat sports as individuals have. I stress this to individuals according to the European basketball championship last year when the tourist community promised 2 million and 100 kuna a name, because the normal thing that Eurobascet's great promotion was for Croatia and when the president of the alliance changed then suddenly it was no longer a tourist promotion and these money did not come. No one wonders that the Croatian basketball alliance has lost 2 million and 100 thousand kunas that it envisioned in its revenues. I thank my colleagues from the government's former athletes who gave the fee for holding the European Championship. The second thing, to compare the university and compare the world championship where they play practically professional athletes is at least untasteful because the financial interest in the world championship is quite different. And the university is looking at where practically amateur athletes who are involved in sports at the university have their own championship. And it's always what countries generally use to rebuild student infrastructure and sports infrastructure. And that's a fact, and that's true, and that's what this speaker has to say. It should be said because people who don't deal with that area that much and don't know it is. As Zagreb was washed in '87. of facades, sports facilities etc. So will they, and most of all, the city of Rijeka, benefit from this universality, and they will receive what they receive. So, it is a fact and it is true and it is certain that the government will not suspend athletes, but I sincerely hope that colleague Janica Kostelic will make sure that this personal account with Croatian sport and the Croatian Olympic Committee that was in the previous government is finished and that we all act as part of the sport. Since I said I'd say something about pension reform. We're great when we talk about reforms. Everyone would, but when these reforms start to happen, or actually when they're even going to be indicated for them, then you start attacking it. I would ask everything about pension reform to wait for that package to be found on the table, and then we discuss it for the simple reason that he's tanging too many people, referring to too many people because that system is in extremely big trouble. And I think we all need to think first of all that these 850 thousand pensioners who at this point have a pension below 3,000 kuna how to get in a position to increase their pensions. This must be our primary task, and this is all another matter of evaluation, evaluation, analysis of professional ones and the basis of this will be the law. But I'm saying, I'm going to repeat one sentence until it reaches out to those who need to know, and that's whether we're all for reform. Obviously not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6989	Thank you very much. We're done with this usual morning session, so we'd move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6990	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Honorable Representative Pero Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6991	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must remind you that Monday marks the 25th anniversary of the death and the masculine murder and the ambush. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSP Club just for this very reason that in a decent way before we break up today we mark this event and of course I invite everyone in that apartment who has time to visit an exhibition prepared and made by our fellow MP brother of one of the murdered Steve Culej. [[- What do you want?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6992	Thank you. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. I'm setting a 10-minute break right now. The session continues at 10.58. Ten o'clock, 44 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6995	Dear Vice President and a small number of MPs who have returned from this exhibition. Here I will be free to stand for a minute, two to wait for these MPs who have come down to pay their respects, and those who have not honored. I'm afraid they won't even come to hear what we want to say here. I've got 15 minutes, so if I have to, we'll be standing for 15 minutes. I'm following the weather, so here I'll be free to stand in silence while at least these MPs of ours join me to thank publicly. [[Intruder Tepeš: Your Honor, you must proceed.]] Well time goes So I don't see anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, the chairman I can stay here for five minutes in honor of those who have given what is most valuable and these are their lives so that we can be here today in this tall representative body. [[Intruder Tepeš: Dear Representative, I ask you to state the reasons for the break.]] But here's because I'm running out of time on behalf of the HSP club, I asked for a break of 10 minutes to thank our representative, Steve Culey, for making an exhibition down in the hall, which, without any embellishment, showed what was going on, and I personally took part in these historic events in '91. It should be pointed out that one of the victims of 12 Croatian directors who were killed from an ambush in the most playful way in Borovo Selo, a brother of our esteemed representative, and I truly show him deep respect. He showed up and showed the show yesterday, but he didn't get a big response. I took advantage of the occasion here to contribute to hearing that truth. Our obligation for us MPs is that all together if we go from the fact that the Homeland War is defensive, that it was as just and in no case was not aggressive as some of those who didn't come to the exhibition and who never apologized for what they said and who don't want to be here right now in the assembly, hear what we have to say. If we go from such a war being built into the foundations and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, built into my party's programme and what is most important is built into the consciousness of the Croatian people we cannot and must never remain silent. All these years we hope to be here we must contribute in all ways and in this way preserve the truth from oblivion and honor all those who have given what is most important and holy, and these are the lives they have built in creation, in defence, in preserving the sovereign, independent and independent Republic of Croatia, and I thank them most deeply for that. And there's not gonna be a chance I'm going to miss as a representative, and I know that there's really a lot of MPs inside at least our Patriot coalition that we're going to use here and this kind of space media and each other to contribute to the preservation of the truth because that's our first priority. So, Croatian citizens did not choose us in the past elections because we are nicer than Zoran Milanovic and his, but because we are more capable. They expect us in the first row to get them out of the economic crisis, to put up our feet a fallen Croatian economy where they brought the gentlemen who are not presently from the SDP, SDSS, HNS, HSU and other parties, and let us never forget that. But it's our duty, and we can't even miss it when we talk about the truth that gets dark. For us... The victim, she was always the victim. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We expect an apology from all those involved. For me, it's bad news, Mr. Pupovac and his followers who added one "S", whose party they are headed for is a criminal organisation that has not tempered anything with that change in the letter "S". I personally came from these parts, spent six years in the Croatian Army. I am also a participant of these historical events and fortunately I remain alive and will not give up the effort to try, at least let us try if we fail to arrange Croatia the way they dreamed of her who are no longer with us. And on that trail, I invite you all together to take moments of silence, not for a minute to recall all those who have laid down their lives in the Homeland War, and first of all, 12 of the directors to honor the honor they have given in this way in Boro's Village their lives. They're with us. Thank you to all of you who have participated in this, and for those who are not here, it is an honor but there will be an opportunity to hear me again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u6996	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8782	So, as you know today is the first on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 30. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. I would like to remind you that the Government has proposed to the Parliament that this legislative proposal be discussed in an emergency procedure, but that the draft legislative conclusion of the Committee should be adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, in order for the legislative proposal to be discussed in the ordinary procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Lovro Kuščević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8783	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Academyman Reiner, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning. This law shall be adopted in order to comply with Directive 2014/89EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for the spatial planning of the marine area. This Directive, as well as the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws, supports and facilitates the implementation of maritime spatial planning for reasons of increasing demand for marine space for different needs, such as maritime and fisheries activities, the conservation of eco-systems and biodiversity, the development of tourism, aquaculture, sustainable use of marine and coastal resources, supporting sustainable growth of the marine economy, thereby supporting trust and security for investors. The proposed law has been drawn up in accordance with the European Commission's instructions and in cooperation with all the measuring ministries, and in this respect it is in line with other relevant Croatian regulations, and in particular with regulations governing matters relating to sea and navigation, the Maritime Code and the Law on maritime good and seaports, regulations governing the protection of the environment at sea. Although it is mainly formal and termological compliance with the directive proposed by law, some news is also being introduced. Among them are the most significant: spatial planning will be made possible in the protected ecological-fishing belt of ZERP and the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Croatia in a way that introduces two new spatial plans that plan these spaces. These two new spatial plans are the spatial plan of the ZERP of the Republic of Croatia and the spatial plan of the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia. This will create a legal framework for the use of the ZERP and the epicontinental belt for different purposes and all in accordance with the relevant provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. In spatial planning, i.e. the development and adoption of spatial plans will formally introduce the principle of taking into account the interaction of land and sea, the principle of spatial and time distribution of existing and future activities, the purposes and methods of sea use and cross-border cooperation in sea planning. According to the EU Directive, this law should be adopted by 18 September 2016, so here I am asking this esteemed House to take account of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8784	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8785	You mentioned ZERP. The fact that our seas are sailed by various fishing fleets and thus using and hunting our fish and destroying our seas have a huge profit and profit and the Croatian state has nothing of it because we do not have a fishing fleet that can compete with, for example, the Italian fishing fleet. The fleet of one small Italian town is bigger than the whole of Croatia. Do you plan on coming to this House, before this House, the ZERP Act, about protecting our sea in every way? What is prescribed exclusively by international law of all states in the world that have seas. Because this is inadmissible and not allowed to have Italy 3 billion kunas per year catch fish, to repack it and to sell that fish to us in our areas during the tourist season. The simple question, will it be on the table what Croatia has the right to protect its national interest and to declare the ZERP that did not previous governments should not know why and who they had to court. I think this House has that right and that's why the people chose us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8786	Thank you. Mr Lovro Kuščević will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8787	So the declaration of ZERP is exclusively a political decision that must be made in this House, and at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning it is for the Ministry to make a proposal for the ZERP plan and, of course, if the political decision is made in this sense that the ministry will do what it has to do and that plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8788	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. We're going to the representatives' clubs. The first came to the HNS club, in which the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8789	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Minister Kuščević and his associate, colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Planning. As the minister pointed out earlier, it is a matter of compliance with the EU Directive. This is an opportunity for all of us to think a little bit together and comment on the subject of the EU directive. So, when Croatia became an EU member, then we included the directive in the legislation because we had to and had certain obligations and deadlines. Now, when it comes to directives in directives, we actively participate. We have equally actively participated in this directive and you have the opportunity to say some things where you can protect the interest of your own country. Because when it comes to the sea, there are two basic topics. There is a protocol on the integrated management of the coastal area of the Mediterranean which Croatia has signed and this respected House has ratified and is talking about the Mediterranean and how the Mediterranean coast is protected from excessive coastal construction and there is also the interest of Scandinavian countries or northern countries that use the sea differently. What am I saying? As regards the Mediterranean, the traditional sea was used for fishing, traditionally in the Mediterranean the sea was used for harbors, for marinas, for berths, and when it comes to northern countries they use the sea for economic purposes. They use the sea to off-shore wind power plants, they use the sea to exploit of course and fish but also these other things. And when it came to this directive, this directive came from northern countries, and then Croatia had opportunities when our people were working on that directive, too, it had the opportunity to say some things, or it had opportunities to participate in this and show what Croatia was interested in. In fact, Croatia is one of the few countries in Europe that has a tradition of spatial sea planning. All of you who are in this esteemed House, here there are colleagues who are mayors or mayors of sea municipalities and cities so I call them, you see your spatial plans you in your spatial plans not only have space to plan marinas, space to plan harbors, space to plan aquaculture, mariculture, you also have spaces of limitations, areas where Poseidonius are so you can't do anything, so that's the tradition of spatial planning of the sea. That's what other countries don't have. Other countries, even Mediterranean countries, don't have any without speaking to the countries that are located, so what is the area of northern Europe. And when it was done then we had the opportunity to point out and say, the decision made by the ministry to do two spatial plans, the ZERP spatial plan and the spatial plan of the epicontinental belt is an extremely good decision for the simple reason that the methodology and the way in which it will be done is little to wait and see how it will be done by some other European Union countries. Because, as we have until September, the obligation of this directive to introduce into its legislation other countries of the European Union have to enter that directive into their own legislation, so it should be quite wise and wait for a simple reason because it is a sensitive area. What am I saying? This area along the coast, so that area already planned, Croatia will still be able to use and can develop and in this part should wait and see what tendencies there will be. And there are equally stories that exist when it comes to spatial planning, or spatial planning. There were different methodologies on the premises of Europe when it came to this. One methodology is your sectoral planning, which means that each sector plans what it wants and then there is one sector that unites. Croatia has a tradition of integrated planning and this tradition of integrated planning is seen and traditionally in these areas, seen through laws and seen through this law. In that part, this planning of the epicontinental belt, i.e. the ZERP, is part of the sectoral. However, at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, it is truly an assessment that the ministry has done a great job and has made an excellent decision to do so for the simple reason that it does not tie its hands to other situations and another story. There are two things I would like to point out which are in this law which have nothing to do with the directive but in this proposal are amendments and additions to the law. One thing is that the ministry has decided to set the deadline for the adoption of a state spatial plan by 31 March 2021. When it comes to these two spatial plans of the epicontinental belt and the ZERP, I absolutely think it's only right because we don't have to be the test rabbits and go first than to see some others who have more interest there and then see how they're going to do, do the same. When it comes to the state spatial plan, I think it shows maybe not enough ambition or maybe some kind of caution. I understand it's the last date, I understand that you've given her a little more space. However, I think that the state spatial plan should be following a spatial order strategy where the strategy has been completed in the parliamentary procedure, it is now at work in the ministry. The resolution minister, together with his associates, will decide to see how he will possibly work. It would be good to have this strategy discussed in this distinguished home as soon as possible, so let's see what we can do about it. And beyond that, all activities related to the state spatial plan. I am sure that Mr. Minister would also like that state spatial plan to be adopted as soon as possible because it would give opportunities and give frameworks for all of what we had the opportunity to read and in the government reform package that was adopted yesterday in the Government, that is, there is part of the investment and interest that these investments go further. And the state spatial plan would be an excellent tool because it has the possibility that urban planning for procedures, strategic projects of importance for the state are directly brought forward. Well, then I expect that this is really the deadline for the state's spatial plan to be before. And there's another provision that needs to be taken care of. So, when it comes to changes and additions to spatial plans, the current law states that the public debate is between 8 and 15 days. This amendment, which is here before us, changes this article of the law and states that when it comes to changes and additions of spatial plans which are due to strategic environmental impact assessment that public debate will last 30 days. It's a pragmatic solution. You know, all the ministries have any dilemmas or if someone has a dilemma that in certain elements they don't comply with EU directives, then you get a pilot and then they check you through that pilot whether it's okay or not. A strategic impact assessment on the environment is a newspaper in these areas. It's not just a newspaper in our area, it's also a newspaper in the European Union. The strategic environmental impact assessment was first introduced by the Netherlands. The Netherlands introduced her about 10 years ago for one reason. As we all know, and we learned that at school, the Netherlands formed its territory by hijacking the sea. As she formed the territory by hijacking the sea, so she has a problem with the land, a land that is polluted. And then they decided to build a strategic environmental impact assessment because they didn't have a problem where they were going to build, they had a problem where they could develop agriculture. And this strategic environmental impact assessment has been created for reasons to assess which country is suitable for the development of agriculture. And then, of course, the strategic environmental impact assessment spread from the Netherlands to other EU countries and thus spread to Croatia. A strategic impact assessment on the environment makes absolutely sense if you are working on a new spatial plan and then evaluate where you can plan strategic areas. It makes sense, for example, just to understand if it is, when it comes to a state-run spatial plan, that it evaluates a pool called the Adriatic Sea as much as it even suffers on the port of nautical tourism so as not to endanger the eco system. As much as new mariculture, aqua culture suffers, this is the purpose of a strategic impact assessment on the environment. In what I was saying at the outset, we have this tendency to actually copy EU directives and not to include it quite to the end of our mind in the way that we should. And so you are related to the Environmental Act is standing there that the strategic impact assessment of the environment is also working for changes and additions of spatial plans. Which, by the way, I have this expertise that I think is very questionable. However, there is another problem. The problem is that planning doesn't go into the environmental planning category because that wouldn't be good. What we have been up to all the time and we will be pushing for a strategic environmental impact assessment as well as others to be tools in the phase of creating spatial plans such as transport studies, such as infrastructure development studies to be a strategic environmental impact assessment. I'm afraid this legislation will open up what we don't want, and we don't want the whole planning to be just planning from the aspect of environmental protection. It must be integrated and watch everyone's interests. Therefore, I can estimate that this amendment and the addition of the law has been made very, very correct, the HNS Club Liberal Democrats will support it. Since it is decided to go in two readings, for the second reading I only ask that the ministry of resistance, or the minister, together with his associates, try and make two decisions and assess what he will do. One thing is about the date of adoption of the state spatial plan because 21 is a very, very long year and another thing to sit with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature to consult in the end line and it can always be consulted by certain bodies or the EU commission and related to this 30-day deadline that is related to the change and addition of the spatial plan. Once again, you can see whether it's really pragmatic to write or maybe a little bit to make sure it stays away for 8-15 days. I'll just repeat something I said on the board. Imagine the situation, one small municipality, I then said Vrsi municipality, but it may be some other municipality deciding to move its route of road or bypass north by 300 meters because it suits it for development. It is going towards the process of the need to assess environmental impacts and this process finds that a strategic environmental impact assessment is necessary. Otherwise, one has been made in Croatia so far, concludes that a strategic environmental impact assessment is needed and then we will have two straight discussions of 30 days and therefore have a natural problem and in the process of adoption and all procedures will be much longer than it should be. So, ultimately well-worked work, the decision to be two spatial plans extremely good and pragmatic, nicely ask that compared to these two things and that was the conclusion of our committee once again consider until the second reading we can get a slightly different proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8790	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8791	Dear fellow Taritash, you were a minister and I think you're competent and you know what you're talking about. I'm just asking you one question, you mentioned a strategy, an environmental impact study that's a very important segment, but it doesn't have to be that brake in the development of spatial planning. When it comes to the Adriatic, the Adriatic was research, drilling the Adriatic, when we look at it in the end, and the results are used by foreign companies that have been drilling, so these results, the right to manage results, there is no Croatia but foreign companies. Is that, in your opinion, a betrayal of national interests? Is there too much risk of research and drilling without Croatia managing, means that there are no results and that it has no right to use it. In my opinion, the former minister from your government, Mr. Vrdoljak, to me, is a classic issue of national interests similar to that of the INA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8792	I'm sorry, I didn't see, I have to admit. Yes, the answer to the replica of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8793	Just a moment before the break, I'll answer the Honorable Representative of Bull. When it comes to the sea, then national interests are always at stake. But that you can plan at all, that you can decide at all what and where to plan, before that, I did, in the end, I listened very carefully to your question so that I could answer your question clearly. [[/Intruder Tepeš: Dear Representative Bulj, I ask you to have a colleague answer. Here you go.]] Therefore, when it comes to the sea, the sea is certainly the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and all that is happening there as well as in other situations is national interest. In order for us to plan at all, you have to investigate. So it's always before the research planning process. So when I talked about strategic environmental impact assessment, it's research. There is a difference between a strategic environmental impact assessment and a common so-called. Environmental impact assessments. The strategy looks strategically and looks at a series of procedures and a simple environmental impact assessment looks at individual procedures. So, when it comes to research, you must know that it will be a few environmental impact studies, after research it will be strategic as a basis for making these two, or three spatial plans and then before issuing any permits, each individual procedure in the space will be equally explored through an environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8794	Thank you. We're continuing the session. Dear Representative Branko Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8796	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the draft amending and supplementing laws on spatial planning. I also commend the fact that we will discuss this law in a regular procedure, so today we are discussing the amendments and additions to the law itself in the first reading. I thank and congratulate Mr Minister that at the beginning of your mandate you started with amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning in the part in which legislative regulations will regulate and plan certain contents, activities on the Adriatic Sea which is either part of the sovereignty or part of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia. We at the HDZ Club support I said I was making these changes and from the outset I would say first for two reasons immediately. The first reason is that you yourself cited in the reasoning of the law, which is that this law is amended to comply with the 2014 Directive. 89 The European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a framework for the planning of the maritime area which we consider extremely important because the Adriatic Sea is also the most important Croatian economic resource, and then it is necessary to plan carefully the activities that can be carried out on the Adriatic Sea. The second reason why we support this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the fact that the HDZ Club has requested that a document be put in place to determine the conduct of the Adriatic Sea and, above all, in the context of the fact that the former government has carried out an illegal process for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons... So I might also ask the former government how it was possible to approach the implementation of the hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation process in the Adriatic when, now, these amendments and additions to the laws based on the 2014 directive, and that same year, clearly indicates that any exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons that can, by its nature, in the event of a disaster, be polluted by the almost total Adriatic Sea, and especially by the fact that it is under the authority of the Republic of Croatia, which, before that procedure, was to be passed by this very law or even at that time, was not even as necessary by law as it was necessary to pass and establish by means of a state spatial plan resulting from the Law on the spatial arrangement that the Government adopted in 2013. [[You don't understand.]] And that same year, the Government, then the Government, proposed in the Croatian Parliament amendments and additions to the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia when we were just saying what we are saying in this process, which is without the adoption of a systematic legal solution or a spatial plan document, without a quality strategic assessment of the impact on the environment of hydrocarbon research and exploitation in the Adriatic is not possible to call a tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In that sense, here in this assembly, we discussed the interpretation submitted by the HDZ Club, which we proved to be illegal, non-transparent. And it's good, thank God, that this procedure is done and it's done and it hasn't won any effects. That in the end, the government gave up the procedure. So I commend you, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the HDZ Club, which will no longer allow any activity on the Adriatic Sea, especially outside the territorial sea, and within the territorial sea is our view that only it can be, it will not be possible to take place without a state plan or a spatial plan that will regulate the behaviour of the Republic of Croatia both in the epicontinental belt and in the protected ecological and fishing area. Another thing that we would give to the government of the Republic of Croatia, with the support of this law, is to consider the purpose of bringing three different national spatial plans to the Adriatic Sea. For reasons of clarification to colleagues at the moment when it comes to the planning of the Adriatic Sea, then all levels of government in the Republic of Croatia in a certain way have the authority to plan. First let's start with units of local self-government that organize spatial planning with their spatial planning plans for municipalities and cities in 300 meters from the coast, that's so-called. The space of limitations. Since no limits have been established at sea between units of local self-government, between cities and municipalities the cities and the municipalities regulate 300 meters, and beyond 300 meters to the territorial sea border, so 12 miles from the starting lines determines the county spatial plan. So another level that regulates at sea in Croatia. At the same time, the same area, which is within the jurisdiction of the local self-government units and this area of the territorial sea, which is within the jurisdiction of the regional self-government, i.e. the county also covers the state with its national spatial development plan. So it's already the third document that, the third document that regulates the territorial sea. We are now staying with this bill on the fact that the territorial sea will regulate the state spatial development plan, but we are now introducing two additional state plans with this law, as this law calls them the spatial plan of arrangements protected by the ecological fisheries belt and the spatial plan of the epicontinental belt. We at the HDZ Club propose to the government to consider whether it is a better solution for the entire Adriatic area to be governed by facilities of national importance and activity of national importance, which is certainly research and gas exploitation. I don't even think about oil and I'm not talking about gas, so I'm talking about a unique spatial plan that will include the continent of Croatia, the continental part of Croatia, the entire territorial sea, which is now regulated but also ZERP, but also the epicontinental belt. Why am I saying that? Because it was a long-standing practice in the Republic of Croatia. All those who follow, know the problem of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia, then we know that the last strategy of spatial planning was adopted in 1997. Based on this strategy, the only complete document of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted so far, it is the 1999 spatial arrangement programme. This spatial arrangement programme meant the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia including ZER, although at the time the document was adopted in '99. The year ZERP did not exist, but at that time we called it the open sea bordering the Republic of Italy under the agreement of... and later in 2004 completed when we had more quality data on the coordinates at sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if we're '99. for years, we could bring a document of spatial arrangement that prescribed the conduct of the ZERP, because there would not then be exploitation fields, i.e. platforms of Ivan, Anamarija 1 etc., marica which are located in ZERP. Because if we didn't have a document of spatial planning we couldn't, today the Republic of Croatia wouldn't be able to draw gas from these platforms. Therefore, in the tradition of spatial planning, the Republic of Croatia is to have a unique document that defines the entire territory of Croatia. This is how, now when it comes to buildings of national importance, when it comes to dealing with the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, so the continent and the territorial sea will be one state plan created by the Law on Spatial Planning, which we adopted in December 2013. And there will be two other plans that will again cover the territory of the Republic of Croatia where Croatia has no sovereignty but has sovereign rights such as ZERP and such as the Croatian submarine to the middle of the Adriatic, which is an epicontinental belt extending from the border of the territorial sea to the border with the Republic of Italy, in northern Slovenia, in the south with Montenegro. So we think it would be more opportunistic if the government holds that this is a better solution, three plans instead of one. Here's what I'd like to ask the government to think about, so that until the second reading, another reading will let us know so that we can do so. Otherwise, it is only now that we see if we claim that for the conduct of the ZERP, or the epicontinental belt, it is necessary to adopt these two plans, then it is the best indicator of how illegal it was to conduct the government when she opened the tender in ZERP and when she opened a competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the epicontinental belt. Then I ask the question based on what it's done. We warned it, we said it, we had an impelation, we claimed it wasn't possible, that a state plan for spatial development should have been adopted. In other words, it is also valid, yet to be amended, the Law on Spatial Planning, which says that the state spatial plan necessarily contains locations for possible platforms, i.e. drilling for research and exploitation. If that's what the article says, it seems to me to be 54, the Law on Spatial Planning, saying it can't be approached by research and exploitation platforms if it's not prescribed by the state's spatial development plan. We hereby confirm that this procedure was absolutely illegal. However, here the present Mrs Anka Mrak-Taritash, and then the minister, in response to the Ministry of Economy, made it clear that it is not possible to explore or exploit oil in the territorial sea with which I agree and what I've been saying since the first day. On behalf of us, we are now further strengthened in this, although we have been able to provide research fields in the middle, south and north Adriatic since July 2013. So, Mr. Minister, full support because regardless of whether it's three plans or one, I personally stand for one, but if there were three plans, no volunteer approach, don't let anyone get into the exploitation of the Adriatic Sea before these two, in my opinion one, I suggest you think about it. But if you bring three, it's much better than it is now. Therefore, do not allow any more competitions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic to be opened with the basis of changes and complements of the 2013 spatial planning strategies, especially when it comes to the intention to draw oil from the Adriatic. Because what Croatian tourism means to the Croatian economy, meaning fishing, fishing, mariculture and all those activities that are related to the Adriatic Sea, one would not give God the haemarija that would happen, would destroy the practical economy of the Republic of Croatia when we know that tourism is almost 20% of Croatian GDP. And in the end, we imitate this law, think about whether or not you're going to be three one, why? Because you have to make three strategic assessments, every spatial plan, especially the spatial plan that is being adopted at the state level, must contain a strategic assessment so that then the provision in the law that does not require additional compositions, I would not quite agree, it will need additional funding, we will have to do new strategic evaluations for both the epicontinental belt and the ZERP, and in this part we will increase the separation but it is good that the law is adopted and that until it is realised, until the state documents adopted by this Assembly and I welcome it, that both the Croatian Parliament and the second and third plans are adopted, and not that any solution is taken outside of us by the parliamentary representatives, and I insist on it. I beg you and absolutely in that sense I support and congratulate you. And another thing that seems to me to be very important in that period that you have prescribed for 5 years maybe you should consider reducing that deadline, 5 years is very much, that's the whole mandate of this Parliament and another year of that term if they are, if there is an entire mandate. It would be good to finally resolve the previous issue when we talk about both ZERP and the territorial sea, about the Adriatic, and these are the borders. With no state in the Adriatic, we have no borders. We're not with Slovenia, we're in the middle of that arbitration thing where we are. I think it's good to go to the International Court of Justice when it comes to the border in the Bay of Maloston and those two big and small Scots and Punta respectively... The island of Klek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the third thing is to establish a border in the Bocococotor bay in accordance with international law, it's a line between the border on land between the top of Prevlaka and the island of Mamula. Thus, in this sense, full support and it would be good if we could come forward with the adoption of these documents and realise the setting of borders in the Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8797	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you've been in the role of our minister, so there's a question which is why it's not protected by national interest so far, because the area is rich, either land or sea, or water on land. Unfortunately, national interests have been issued during and after you. Because if it wasn't for ZERP, if ZERP had been declared not to talk about this today, we wouldn't be talking today about 19 kuna pension, pardon health insurance, we wouldn't be talking about the pension insurance problem. Why hasn't he been declared? You were then during both Sanader and later you were Jadranka Kosor, and the previous government did not protect it. National interest has also been given in the research of the Adriatic. Former Minister Vrdoljak has issued national interests because he has allowed research and drilling of the Adriatic and the results are used by foreign-owned companies, it seems to me even from Norway. And it was such a risk that our borders, that our seas might be. to experience an ecological disaster and lose a lot more than this research. Both the sea and land were not guarded, no interest was protected, if interest were protected today the Croatian state would not be here where it is. I am therefore surprised that everything with the previous mandate has been done that the Croatian state has been brought into this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8799	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 has been injured. In his discussion, however, Bulj has made some observations, but this kind of public speech cannot be demeaning or insulting someone else within the assembly or outside the assembly. Minister Vrdoljak has not issued a national interest and the fact that his colleague Bulj does not think otherwise cannot express it in such a way, 238 articles of the Rules of Procedure deserve to be given a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8801	I don't think you correctly interpreted the article, it's not demeaning, it's a claim made by Representative Bulj. You can either disagree with that claim. Also when your colleagues told Bacic the same thing, your party representatives approved it, so I think you're wrong when you say it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The next one's gonna pick up the line. Replica response, excuse me, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, the fact that you make it easy for others to make accusations is your style and you have the right only to have a measure to do so. I would agree, too, with Mr Batinić, that you should have been warned by the chairman, but that's what's on your soul. You don't have to know everything, and no one has anyone in this world who knows everything, but forgive me when it comes to ZERP, dealing with ZERP that I know something a little bit more. And that is the fact that ZERP has not been declared, that ZERP has not been declared a UN diplomatic note today, would not suggest today Mr Kuščević here to adopt a spatial plan to edit the ZERP. I personally managed, managed an action to rescue a Turkish ship that burned in ZERP in 2007 and that ZERP did not exist, would not have charged huge funds from the insurance company due to the damages that occurred with the fire on that ship. Therefore, the ZERP exists, it is suspended in the part of fishing for EU Member States because ZERP is also a common EU sea. According to this, there was a discrepancy with the ZERP and 2003 during the Racan Government and 2004 during Sanader's government when one of the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Croatia was whether the ZERP did not apply to EU member states. Then we gave in because we estimated that the strategic project of the Republic of Croatia was to enter the European Union. Because even when we declare it, and we join the European Union, it is once again becoming a common sea that is available in a certain way, not entirely by the European Commission. Therefore, it does not seem to be the fact that this has not been taken into account, because if it had not been ruled out, we would not be able to argue today that we will adopt a spatial plan that will absolutely be laid down in the section relating to the activities set out in the introductory part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8803	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8804	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bacic in this distinguished House if Mr. Vrdoljak were here, he would be three former Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning and one present. And I was very pleased to hear that you commended Minister Kuščević from this pay phone because in three years when I was a minister you sat in this distinguished House you didn't do it once. So it's nice to hear that the former minister praises the current minister. Likewise, when it comes to spatial planning, you know very well that we have a '97 strategy in place. And the '99 program. And in this distinguished House, we made an amendment and an addition, and you were also in this distinguished House in 2013 when we changed strategy and programme. The strategy is a strategic document. The program is a document based on which you can issue local and construction permits and absolutely cannot agree with you when you suggest that the ZERP spatial plan and the spatial plan of the continental belt be installed in the state spatial plan. You know very well what that means. If this were in the state spatial plan, the state spatial plan could not be adopted without the prior consent of neighbouring countries, which would certainly delay a significant procedure. And I am sure Minister Kuscevic has a strong desire to succeed in his mandate in bringing a state spatial plan, because it would be extremely good for this country. And that's why it's good that these two spatial plans are separate, and I'll always stand up for this proposal, which was given by the Resort Ministry because it's pragmatic, because it's operational, too, because you know very well that I include it in this state spatial plan, which would mean in the process of making, in the process of making, in all possible consent, and it would open up to us a bunch of problems which are then something which is the strategic interest of the state, and I believe that we can all agree here, regardless of what side of the assembly we sit on, that the strategic interest of the state is a spatial plan, because we can also read out a series of projects of strategic ones that are of interest to the state and they can become operational and it're much simpler to come to the final solutions, because you agree that if we go to three levels of decision-making of the long and definitely make the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8805	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, you're wrong. The Croatian Democratic Community Club in the last term, you know very well, all those laws we agreed with and supported, and it was not a small number of laws. And I think that the support of the law is in a certain way from the opposition suggests that you appreciate what has been accepted in the Croatian Parliament, so we have therefore never politically performed according to the documents of your jurisdiction, and we have supported many laws. We didn't support laws we didn't agree with. You know very well what the laws were. And as for the facts and your argument that we don't bring in two spatial plans because we need the consent of our neighbours, it will delay the adoption of a basic state plan with you. Why? Well, you know very well, you were a member of that government that when you needed the consent of Italy, Slovenia and Montenegro for a very important document and procedure that this government was conducting, and there was an agreement with the strategic assessment that was done in my opinion pro-forma, bad for the process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons... Therefore, very quickly the government,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been thinking for a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Watch out in a month or two days you get consent to the most important document from neighbouring countries at sea. So now let them get away with it for a year, and we shall bring it in four or five years. I have expressed our position, and this attitude is that it would be good for the entire territory of Croatia including ZERP and the epicontinental belt to be resolved by one document, as you know very well that you have spent years at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning a single document relating to this entire space... three plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But Mr. Minister, I've suggested to you, it's up to you, the HDZ club will support either one or another variant it's not a dispute because we will finally define the action on the Adriatic as we think we should carry out before any activities on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8807	Thank you. The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative Vedran Babic, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8808	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Ministers and Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I've written a debate, or written a good part of the text that the ministry has prepared, but I won't harass you with, read it and repeat what has been said once and for all. All I can do is track down what the former minister was saying about the current minister. So, the SDP club will also be affirmative in terms of the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning. We know, of course, that this is a alignment with the European directive and that it was taught what happened yesterday at the board meeting I really expected this debate to be shorter. I was pleasantly surprised by my colleague Bačić, who had been shooting for his debate all along. But I stayed a little bit and found the HDZ Club proposing something else to its minister, so we're not on the same page. But here's the first time I've ever seen it before. Here, in the spirit of affirmative adoption of your first law, the SDP club will support these changes, which in the first place refer to the exploitation and enjoyment of the entire sea area of our country and I want you to continue to make changes to the law in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8809	Thank you. The replica was answered by distinguished representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babic and I were together in the last term of the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning, so I must say that you were really surprised when you said that you do not remember that some representative suggested a change or amendment to his minister. You know very well that I generously granted you an amendment to the Construction Act, remember that? When you suggested that the project designer on the main project be an architect exclusively. And that's what you've advocated in this House. We wrote the amendment together, and I didn't want to stand behind it so that HDZ's hand wouldn't be recognized, so I figured the minister would accept your amendment more easily. And you were very brave to vote. And when the vote came, you withdrew that amendment. So, we have a practice of being proposed here in Parliament, remember, to your minister if you think that something better is a solution and today I believe that you were right and that the minister did wrong then that she did not accept the amendment. I think it would be good for the current minister to discuss it. Therefore, you can see that there have been cases in the House that the parliamentary representative from the position has proposed amendments to his minister but we have testified and that you have retired. I'm not insisting on it now, I'm just proposing and it's going to be the government's decision and the ministry's decision. I believe the ministry will respect this proposal and what we are proposing at the HDZ Club. But that doesn't mean that, I repeat it, and this solution that the minister suggested is much better than the existing one. So here were the cases. I've only reminded you of that and you agree with that because we've discussed it for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8811	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8812	Here's a thank you, colleague Bačić, for remembering well. I remember the same thing. So we both have good memories. I'm the only one going into detail right now. I've been thinking and talking about you and the minister being members of the same party. My colleague Mrak-Taritash and I are not. I won't say thank God, but we didn't. That's what's happening. Here, thank you for reminding me. We'll all work to make the laws as good as we can for the good of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8813	Thank you. Next in the debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj appeared on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8814	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with an associate, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. This Parliament has been harmonising a number of regulations and directives on the EU's order for years. There will always be room, especially for spatial planning, and ask how much did Croatia and this Parliament protect national interests? Were the interests of Croatian citizens or European officials who gave us orders always ahead? If the spatial plan had been made on the sea, to protect the economic belt today, the Italian fleet of fish would not have caught 3 billion kunas in our sea and sold to us in the tourist season, it would not have happened if we didn't know where our borders, who exports, who imports, would not have talked about the 19 kuna collection of health insurance, would not have been a problem either. Space is something sacred. Here's today we remembered our officers who lost their lives. What was the problem with ZERP? Why didn't we protect the economic belt when, 10, 12 years ago, Mr. Tonci Tadic, the parliamentary representative proposed ZERP? Because we shouldn't have. All governments were then and all parliamentary representatives except individuals then very small majority did not stop to protect the national Croatian interests of the free Republic of Croatia, which was defended in the Homeland War. She was committed to everyone, whoever wanted to do and what he wanted to do was doing, and at least the Croatian man could use it. That's right with the sea, that's true with land. Today, base stations are setting up teleopers wherever they want, wherever they want to be as a simple building, and they can't do that in their own countries where they come from. Telecommunications privatized what our fathers bought and you who are older than you bought and today is owned by foreign property. It's not in our hands, and relationships are the heart. That's the way it is with the sea. We don't know exactly where our boundaries are, always some kind of compromise. There is no compromise on borders and national interests. It's similar with banks. Why didn't we have better fishing fleets? He was here and the former minister spoke and the former minister. Why didn't we have better fleets? So we, these fish our fishermen hunted and sold in the tourist season, not let the Italians hunt us and sell us in the tourist season. We did not protect the national interests in this House and it was proposed. And all those of you who have been to the Parliament and from the left and on the right know it very well. Of course, there is a need to protect both the land and the sea. But who gave whom the right? Did the people give a referendum the right of someone to drill the Adriatic into research, and that the results have a foreign company and these results it trades rather than the Croatian state? What are the risks of hydrocarbons and what are the results and who owns these results? Which is why it is not the Croatian state owner i.e. Croatian man? So, we've given them room for management to do whatever they want. Unseriousness has led to this situation. I'll repeat what I said at the beginning, if that money had gone into the budget, if we'd protected national interests today, gentlemen would have. We wouldn't have a problem with the health insurance of 19 kunas, not with the pensioners, but the foreigners share what we have. And I will repeat the words that Ante Starcevic said obviously we are bad masters and good servants. And we need to change that in this House on all matters. We must and the MOST will propose to have an economic belt, it is the sea of Croatia, it is according to international law. There is no one else's directive, nor can it command us, nor does anyone have the right to do it. That is why I expect the ministry, Ministers, from you, to protect the national interests of both the law of the sea and the land. To us today as I told foreign fleets to hunt fish and sell it to us in the tourist season and our fishermen have small fleets and have nothing to live on. They're destroying our ecological and fishing potential in our Adriatic Sea. And you know very well that's how it is. You need to speak bravely from this pay phone and that's what MOST will represent. This time we speak publicly, since the first reading is also teleopers with their own on land, it's one example, no kuna, no rules, no consent whatsoever they want and wherever they want. They don't do that in Germany or Austria or Sweden. And then when they're mentioned, and they get a lot bigger per capita than us. And when they're mentioned, the problems rise to all four legs. And we can't nibble. Then what is the purpose of the Croatian Parliament if we cannot protect the economic belt in the Adriatic Sea because it is by international law our right. By betraying national interests in drilling the former minister, the former government at drilling and not having those results, it is a betrayal of national interests as it is with the INA. This is a classic issue of national interests, this is Croatia sold out. And we're talking here wants to be 19 kunas to our poor girl's collected health insurance. We wouldn't be talking about you gentlemen on the left and right protecting national interests, of course who you were in Parliament and who you were in government. This is why MOST will seek everything I have said in the shortest possible time and to protect Croatia's national interest. Everything within the Croatian borders that is hard to defend in the Homeland War and with blood we must protect and not sell out solely because of the future of our children to stay in these areas, both on the islands along the coast and on the mainland in these border areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8815	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8816	Dear colleague Bulj, I as a young architecture student, 3 years old, subject to spatial planning, the professor went out and said that spatial planning is always about politics. At the time, I thought a man was saying something wrong, but my life's work life has taught me that he didn't say wrong because when we talk about spatial planning, we always tie it to politics like you did here. However, when it comes to the Law on Spatial Planning, when it comes to planning space, then you must know that when Croatia joined the EU it was a chapter that was quickly closed. The fastest open and closed, for what reason? For the reason that spatial planning is in the sole competence of each unit of a Member of the European Union. We need to plan our space, protect our space, and you've also had opportunities and I'm here and I'm saying this is the directive The Law on Spatial Planning is in line with the directive, in the drafting of this directive Croatia took part. And through the creation of that directive protected its interest, it is seen in the directive, and this is also seen in this amendment and in addition to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8817	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8818	Dear colleagues, I would like it to be so that Croatia has protected the economic belt at sea and that it is protected at the time when you were minister that the telepliers can not set up base stations wherever they want and however they want and that they do not pay for it nor kunas. Is that protecting our space? Whether it's a protection of space to be a simple building base station that can set up wherever it wants, doesn't need to be invested in infrastructure, means electricity, roads, water. Well, look, not only did you take our telecommunications, but now they're making fun of us, and they're charging our citizens fat, and they're even rebelling right now, which is why we're even asking for it, which is why we're asking for it. Yes, we will demand because national interests have been issued on this issue, and we will protect them here at the Most. And I expect the Ministry to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8819	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8820	Thank you. My colleague Bulj, I have listened very carefully to your debate and I am truly a little scared for one single reason because I've gotten the impression that you don't support the tone you speak as if you don't support this government. You've looked twice at the context of this debate to increase the allocation for supplementary health insurance, so I'd like you to explain to me what this has to do with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8821	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8822	Your colleague may find it strange for you that we do not have a list when voting how to vote before voting which is usually an example in the parties. You get the exact paper, and that's how you vote. ... And that's how it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But let me tell you, you may find this all strange, but there's going to be a fight for what you've missed, and that's, I don't know if you've been in previous terms, national interests where they've been betrayed. And it certainly protected the economic belt, that 3 billion kunas of Italian fish do not hunt us, and we would certainly not be talking about health insurance in this way in the tourist season. You did not protect your national interest, and therefore 100 billion kuna in the past term is in debt to Croatia and a total of 300 billion, 300 thousand people have been completed and 300 thousand unemployed. Except for not protecting national interests in all respects and favouring various political servants to some European officials because they were not protected national interests but were only good servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8823	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8824	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Buddy Bull, you totally missed out on the subject, totally. The issue of economic development measures with the maximum protection of the environment and natural resources here by law, by supplementing and harmonising with the directive, if you have read it correctly, is first protected from these ships that release products and in the event of some disasters, that is when the directive protects them from the environment. The other thing, we had plans before, we're one of the few countries that had plans at sea. These amendments and amendments to the law also create a political framework so that ZERP can be arranged and it is a newspaper. The legal framework for the spatial planning of the maritime area of the Republic of Croatia for the growth or development of the marine economy, the sustainable development of the marine area and the sustainable use of marine resources is hereby established. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8825	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8826	Thank you very much. Mr. Penic, I don't think I've made a mistake, and I know what this is about, I know we don't have an economic belt, and I know that we've been sloppy about protecting the environment in terms of the Adriatic Sea, and it's easily verifiable what our fishing fleets of foreign countries are doing, what they do to us both from fish as resources and from the underworld itself in the sea. This is easily verifiable and on that point, so I didn't miss, and the only thing that we have in Croatia under environmental protection on the other hand is a number of strategies and none of them have been achieved to kill. We must protect the national interest of Croatian fishermen fishing for fish and that it is selling or exporting or selling on our sea and not foreign, it is a protection of national interest that we know where our border is, so since you come from Sinj, let's say, because you're from the origin of three kilometers on land borders dragged in during your government's intra-RH torture on Bilima, which is a betrayal of national interests. The drilling of the Adriatic, research and to be the owner of the result solution, to be the owner of the Norwegian firm, is a betrayal of national interests. The only thing we could get was to pollute the Adriatic Sea, get pollution and have big consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8827	Please be quiet, I ask you to finish this point. End of the line, Minister Lovro Kuščević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8828	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I welcome you once again. Here, I'm really glad that this topic has taken this kind of attention, and here's that two former ministers, or the minister and minister, have what to say and here's the obstacle to their views. Therefore, this is proof that it is not about the benign law and the benign alignment with the European Directive, but rather about one fundamental law that will protect and what Mr Bulj's parliamentary representative is thinking about and these are the strategic national interests of the Republic of Croatia. As far as I'm concerned, I'm glad you've commended this initiative to go into two plans, so we're going to elaborate on that on another reading. I think you were wrong when you said we were not ambitious enough about the adoption of a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, as you know, the strategy of spatial development was not adopted in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are, working actively on it. It is addressed to all ministries, to all resolution authorities, to all units of local self-government, or regional self-government, waiting for their findings, we gave a very short deadline. As soon as it's adopted. We are going with her in front of this High House and I hope that you will adopt the same as soon as possible to give us a free hand to go into the development of a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia which is indeed a very important document and I hope that we will succeed in this meeting in the Croatian Assembly and adopt it. As far as the remarks are concerned. I also thank the president, or member of the SDP Club, for supporting this law, and I also thank the HDZ Club for supporting this law. As for Mr. Mir Bulj and his criticism that national interests are being betrayed. It is precisely so that the issue of national interests does not happen that we are also passing the law, so we are also prescribing the final planning of the sea, that it does not remain an area of non-regulatory and that maybe the things that have happened and that this exploitation or exploration of oil wells is already what we really want to prejudge, plan a spatial plan, spatial plans of the Republic of Croatia, and then we are sure that it will be in accordance with the law, in accordance with environmental regulations and in accordance with the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. For saying that we are the Croats of good servants, the bad lords. This is exactly the way to take over our national territory because the sea is a very important part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Here, in line with everything we've said, I thank everyone once again for a very high-quality and constructive debate and I suggest that you support the adoption of this law in front of the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8829	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Here I am only going to beg you. The President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, the Honorable Representative Zdravko Ronko, informs the committee that on 29 April 2016, after voting at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, the second session of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals will be held at the Chamber of Stjepan Radić, Hall No. 133th with the agenda as the members received him on the call. Now, yes, we'll wait a minute, two for the MPs to settle in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-29-0.u8830	Next up is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, First Reading, P.Z.E. No.30. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the next conclusion, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning is adopted. All comments and proposals will be submitted to the applicant for consideration on the occasion of the completion of the final draft law. Please vote, who's in favour of that conclusion? 124 for, 2 abstentions, 1 against. I find that most of the votes have been reached by the conclusion. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! Here we go again, we're a little bit less than we should be. But I can see that several respected MPs have come forward, probably looking for a break, so let's take a turn. The first was Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
