ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10858	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Agenda item: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Information Act on food, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No.65. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received reports from the Committee at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Tugomir Majdak Deputy Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10859	Thank you. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives. Therefore, the applicable food information law provides for the implementation of Regulation 1169 and 2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on food information for consumers. The aim of the regulation itself as well as the consumer information law on food is to ensure a high level of health protection and consumer interests in a way that informs them about the food offered on the market by giving them complete information on the same and all, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the EU single market. The proposed amendments to the Food Information Act provide for Commission Implementing Regulations no. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law also repeals Commission Regulation 608 of 2004 on food labelling and food ingredients with the addition of phytosterol, phytosterol ester, phytostanol and/or phytostanol esters, since the provisions of that Regulation have become an integral part of Regulation 1169/2011. informing consumers about food. Furthermore, the exact names of persons authorised to carry out official controls are harmonised, since food quality inspections are subject to the agricultural law last year, i.e. in 2015, renamed agricultural inspection. The competent authority shall also be extended to the fisheries inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture by reducing the number of inspections carried out by the official controls in food business operators in such a way that only the fishing inspectors come instead of the agricultural fishing inspection to mark the products in the same cases. The provisions of the applicable law clearly define the conduct of persons authorised to carry out official controls depending on the non-compliance established. Inconsistencies are divided according to the impact on consumer health and or misleading consumers, taking into account, of course, the risks and risks to consumer health, as well as the penalties for offences committed. The application of the Consumer Food Information Act from 2013 to today has established that there is also a certain infringement for which minor administrative measures and infringement provisions should be laid down, since they do not endanger consumer health or lead consumers astray. Such a smooth approach does not prejudice the health and interest of consumers as well as ensuring the effectiveness of official controls and, in the light of the existing supply of packaging, facilitates economic operators to correct established non-compliance. For example, in the case of allergens in food when no food allergens are mentioned, the strictest administrative measure and the highest fine may be prescribed as such inconsistencies may endanger consumer health. However, in the case where allergens are listed but in a different way than that already mentioned in Regulation 1169/2011. the year is attributed to a milder measure under which the responsible food business operator has a period of 2 months to remove non-compliance and the lower fine is prescribed and the food does not have to be withdrawn from the market. The applicable law for these non-compliances prescribed the same administrative measures and the same fine. Finally, amendments and additions to the Law also propose additional administrative measures and infringement provisions to ensure more effective implementation of official controls and consumer protection. These measures oblige food business operators to comply with their responsibilities regarding the provision of food information to consumers, in all stages of food production or processing, and to place it on the market. For example, a food business operator will be fined in a food business that changes information on food that could lead a consumer to error or otherwise reduce the level of consumer protection and the potential for end-user to be informed when choosing the food he buys. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10860	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first word is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10861	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support amendments and additions to the Food Information Act. As we have heard before, it is an amendment to and supplementing the EU Regulation of 30.07.2014 on consumer information requirements in the absence or reduction of gluten in food. This law should enter into force on 20.07.2016 and repeal the Food Marking Regulation and food ingredients with the addition of phytosterol ester, phytosterol, phytostanol and/or phytosterol. Now, I understand that this law needs to be passed in order to avoid a legal vacuum, but I don't understand why this coordination hasn't been resolved over the past two years in regular procedure and in peace. Good because, in accordance with the general efforts of most parliamentary representatives in this law, it has been easier to access corrective measures especially for those who do not endanger consumer health. For example, in the case of official controls, if irregularities are established, a solution is written first and a deadline for the elimination of irregularities. If, in any case, an infringement proposal or an indictment or a fine has not been removed by the control of the implementation of the irregularity, this is a good thing and in such cases, the maximum seriousness of the legislator is required. It is also good that the actions of authorised persons have been clearly defined in the exercise of official controls, which has often not been so done so, so inspectors have been given room to create their own solutions, which is not good. Such a law shall harmonize the exact names of persons authorised to carry out official controls as well as the competence and shall be harmonised in part, thereby avoiding duplication and overlapping of inspection controls and thus reducing the number of inspections. Additional measures and provisions are also proposed to ensure more effective implementation of official controls and consumer protection and to provide better information on food to consumers at all stages of production. So, processing, placing on the market, as well as fines for changing information that can lead to the error of the end consumer. Furthermore, it is also good that meat and fish products obtained from pieces of meat are finally declared as such because they are as such certain and worse quality and cannot cost the same as they are from one piece. It is very important to implement this law from control of food declarations at the border to the shelf. I would also like to make it very clear that we are mainly talking about the monitoring of food business entities in terms of food industry, dairy, slaughterhouses, processing or butchery. These facilities are in line with the level of risk permanently monitored and are mainly treated. However, I would like to point out the need for a much higher frequency of control of trade chains that import and then repark, cut, grind and process groceries with official controls of only two to four times a year. I'm saying there's a lot of room here to extract and take an official sample because above the standard, no one in particular can blame us for the right one. Of course, this frequency depends on the amount of resources in the state budget provided for inspection and cause. We need to continue in this place to make a very clear decision. In this Regulation this Regulation is also precisely defined, inspections carried out by food safety controls by those controlling quality. Therefore, surveillance and control of particularly declarations, markings and labels are never sufficient in the trade chains, as I note, domestic food production entities are continuously monitored. It is necessary to take into account the adoption of a special act with a recommendation on the best use and validity of deep-frozen foods of animal origin so that they can be incorporated into this law later on. There are manipulations of the greatest. Furthermore, it is necessary to work on the education of citizens related to the reading and control of the product declarations we buy as well as the promotion of the purchase of products of domestic quality. In the end, I'd like to tell you a story about this subject that we're discussing today. Namely, Monday's Agriculture Committee of the Croatian Parliament held its session in Opatija. The counseling of forestry engineers and the wood of the processing industry and sawmills was held there. The lecturer Ivica Tikvic, professor of the University of Shumar, said about this: "The forest is the largest purification of drinking water in the world and they make up 47% of the land of the Republic of Croatia." For a wonderful miracle, a bottle of strange name was found on my desk, of course from Austria. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, who could have thought of ordering water from Austria, who approved it? How much for filling our young people's water will make them go to temporary work in Austria to fill that water. So can't we at our hotels on our Adriatic, at least look at water filled in Croatia? Don't we know how to put a bottle under a pipe and choose to grab a bucket? Is it possible that this water from imports costs once more than the milk of mountain pastures? Where is the empathy dear friends, ladies and gentlemen towards the homeland? Of course, in the evening we also got mineral water from the same manufacturer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10862	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10863	Thank you very much. My colleague, it is a sad fact that import goods are controlled once or twice a year in Croatia in the trade chains, as you have said, because the fact that these import goods are so examples of when they first appeared in my area in a trade chain imported lamb from New Zealand, which was a kilogram of 12 kuna. Imagine New Zealand's frozen lamb was 12 kuna, of which there were when the trade chains appeared in this area. And then it is normal and natural for the Croatian man to be hungry for Croatian food. But for producing a kilo of lamb, it's in Dalmatian Zagora or Dalmatia somewhere around 10 euros. So where was the cost-effectiveness for him from New Zealand to deliver 13 kuna with a boat and for people to buy it, of course, in this situation the people bought that frozen lamb. Most likely it was intended for burning in New Zealand, and that shear was delivered to us after 13 kuna, and of course all people go shopping for 13 kuna because they don't have the funds. This is basically how agricultural production in Croatia was destroyed. I agree with you here, sir, that control must be more common. And the question is who controls the mode of control. I'm not sure how it works, are it private companies, is it a concession or how you get the product control itself? I hope this story you said that a liter of water is more expensive than a liter of milk, that a liter of water from imports is more expensive than oil, that it will never happen again. I guess Croatians can also pack water, produce agricultural and livestock products. And that control is what's most important and this problem is essentially from the ministries and the government these lobbies have caused this situation in agriculture in continuity precisely because of this behavior as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10864	Thank you. The esteemed representative Josip Križanić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10865	Thank you, Mr. Bull, for this replica of yours. The control system in Croatia is well-set and the inspection system is functioning. However, we are talking about how often control is involved and how often official controls are prescribed according to the level of risk. Of course, there is a very often problem with money, and as much as we Assembly representatives are going to spend money on control, so much will be done. When you talk about import goods in chains, you know I'm talking about it every day, and you and me and the other MPs aren't gonna stop, twice a year certainly no official control can do anything in a big trade chain that has a processing, which has a cutting, which has a grinding. You all know, especially my dear ladies, that the greatest contamination can occur and occur at that very stage in grinding and cutting meat. The dumped prices, yes, the dumped prices of milk in our trade chains cannot happen that the price of milk in our country costs two or a half kuna and a producer of the same milk in countries where that milk is imported into Croatia cost 5 kuna. So that means it's milk three or four times before our trade chain is subsidized. And I'm sure it can be solved with the Law of So-called. A fair trade practice that we have to do urgently, and then that kind of thing will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10866	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Križanić, I agree with everything you've been saying, we've talked about this a lot. But I volunteered for the replica because you also mentioned frozen foods or deadlines until they could be used. So this law, i.e. amendments to the laws and the Consumer Protection Act, can in some ways improve domestic production. If we protect the consumer from various import lobbys, but also from these laws and controls, we can certainly directly influence the increase of domestic production. But, after this law, it is necessary to bring in a number of more documents if we really want to do something, if we really want to make a clear and loud stand against these players who bring in such meat as counterpart Bulj said at dumped prices and thus protect consumers. In order for this to be, we need to have a regulation that clearly and loudly declares to know where it comes from, until it can be used in Croatia and not that that meat that can be used outside can be used for up to 6 months frozen afterwards in Croatia and we use it, we grind, we agree and eventually may end up somewhere even as fresh meat. So it's not enough control and nothing good will happen enough that it's a good law if it's not implemented. And we have a problem that our system isn't working. We have a variety of institutions that could certainly serve to protect consumers and protect domestic production, but they are wrongly placed and they do not work. Let's start with the agency and everything. So it's a big deal, and it's gonna take a lot more to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10868	Thank you. The esteemed representative Josip Križanić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10869	Thank you, too, for your replica. I'm always ready to elaborate on this subject. Unfortunately, there are no restrictions in the EU on how long meat can be used deep-frozen. However, all countries, so-called. "smart" countries have a recommendation. And then they write best recommend that you use it best within, say, six months. It has not been scientifically proven that it is meat frozen for more than a year medically invalid. But it's scientifically proven in the studies of the Veterinary and Biotechnology Food College that meat that's over a year old I mean frozen longer than a year of poorer quality than fresh. And then it happens that that kind of meat is imported, and then it melts in our house, and then it goes to the barn behind it. And at that point, he competes with the more quality domestic goods fresh. Of course there's no inspection here at that point, and that's where we have to react. The law mainly covers all these changes and the law is also, as a rule, the laws are okay. It is only a question of how many of these laws we implement or how much we want to implement. I've always been, and now I've been talking about it, I'm not for repression, I'm not for closure, but I'm sure at some point we're gonna have to stop because I'm saying above standard no one can forbid and exempt a sample from a big freezer that comes in and we take a sample of that meat, we make an analysis, we'll do a lot of things, and we'll be much smarter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10870	Thank you. We continue, next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the esteemed colleague of Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10871	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the law on amendments and additions to the law on which there should not be too much debate and too many dissonant tones of food on the one hand represents the need and compliance with EU legislation. And I will repeat almost 50% of these regulations and regulation related to agriculture, fisheries, veterinary and food safety so that these harmonisations related to new regulations or the repeal of certain regulations are likely to be the work of the restoring ministry and other ministries covering the work of this area. So we actually have one regulation, an EU regulation that cancels out, and we have one new one of these that we're actually doing extra harmonisation with. And according to our commitments, we take and implement the normative content of our law. It's okay and our club has no objections. However, we support these amendments as well as the changes related to Articles 3 and 4 which define and explicitly cites the official control providers and clearly define the conduct of persons authorised to carry out official controls, depending on the differences identified. What's actually my question and what's appreciated colleagues in front of me in replicas and in showing outside the club mentioned official controls with a view to ensuring the safety of our citizens when buying food never enough, prevention never enough. Only gentlemen should have counted on it, kept in mind, and when the state budget was passed, did I not notice any of you taking part in the resolution ministry, although the nominally 250 million is a higher budget than last year, that you reacted and provided greater resources for the implementation of official controls that were significantly reduced in relation to which official controls were provided in 2015, 2014, and the previous years. In fact, I would also like to say that, with the aim set out by colleagues, this need for official controls is more systematic, for more, for better, for the sake of transparency, but the question from which funds, given that when planning the budget, when raising hands for the same budget and you gave him most of it you did not take account of it. All these changes are acceptable for the SDP club and we can in principle support them. What I see as a potential problem, and where I point out to the applicants themselves, is actually Article 5, which determines in fact the possibility of changes related to non-compliance or the ranking of potential disagreements and provides for certain infringements to be prescribed, for which minor administrative measures and infringements should be signed. They can't agree with them because often in our public, in our newspapers in this high house, especially when it shows the need to collect political points is about insufficient controls, importing frozen meat, opting for large lobbies, insufficient control or the like. And now we're actually reducing the criteria here and we're giving the opportunity to actually unwitting business entities that through the law that we're going to pass and we're giving the possibility to do some things with a slip or on purpose, and in that case we're deliberately hunting holes in that same law. I see no reason, the Deputy Minister also cited one of the things that has been transferred, i.e. inconsistencies transferred from the strictest group, and we are talking about a group of inconsistencies that may affect consumer safety and health or lead consumers into error and which require the taking of measures of a temporary ban or ban on placing on the market and withdrawing from the market and recalls from end-users which are now actually transferred to the category of offences for which a maximum period of two months is foreseen. If we put them aside to indicate that there is no nutritional declaration contrary to Article 9(1), that is one or more of these particular storage or use conditions are not listed in accordance with Article 25. However, it cannot be agreed that an infringement which may be transferred or considered inconsistencies which, for which the removal of such non-compliance goes into the category of two months or more, is that, if it is not a country or place of origin, there are no data on certain substances or the product caused by the allergy and has not been used by the date of minimum sustainability, until the date and date of freezing which is not in conformity with Article 24. I also consider a problematic provision in the law in Article 6 to add a new subparagraph that non-compliance with mandatory data not presented in the same field of vision, which have been defined as a stricter non-compliance move with non-compliance which has no impact on consumer health. Why should these data that are important not be located on the spot and on the declaration that each consumer can see and not be led astray in this way, and that then enables the business operator who places such a product on the market to remove that irregularity within 2 months and in those two months sell that product which can actually cause confusion in the same producers, can cause uncertainty and actually do not know what they are buying and how they are buying. In principle, once again I say this is a law which first and foremost complies with the regulation and applies to EU legislation, I suggest by way of suggestion or ask that amendments correct this part of the definition of non-compliance, not to leave room for unconscious spatial entities to exploit the gaps in the law and further confuse consumers themselves when placing food on the market. And I would like once again to point out the need for the best and the more systematic education of consumers themselves, the public themselves, because that is never enough, we must be aware of it always needs to be read and received information on the declarations themselves, on the food labels themselves, to what is really good in that part of the organoleptic, nutric, and in each other. I will also ask my ministry colleagues to say that even good projects, good work by certain representatives of NGOs, that is, civil organisations and related to this regulation and to this law, can also be said specifically the Association of Cells, the Primorje-Gorski County, which is very active in both prevention and education of food-labelling problems, i.e. the supply of gluten-free food to support both such projects and such educational content. One EU project that the organisation is working on has passed, it is very important and it seems to me that the ministry here, along with other resolution ministries, can take an additional step and enable funds for pre-financing or participation in this important project, and that the Republic of Croatia also shows itself best in that part of Croatia. In principle, I support this law. We hope that the applicant will adopt or consider the proposed comments on this part. And in any case, I join the view of colleagues that official controls must be systematic, must be of quality, must be good and must provide consumers of the Republic of Croatia with information about the food they buy to be accurate, be true and be quality and legally indicated on the products themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10872	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10873	Thank you very much. Comrade Jakovina, I agree with you absolutely that you must make sure that he has the funds for these services. I would add that there is also space in various state bodies, agencies that even with existing capacities a little better organisation and reorganisation can be done much more. But when I answered the line, I answered for one reason because you said that we should have taken more account of it in the adoption of a budget for the insurance of funds. So now I'm going to ask you how do you comment that in the report of the Food Agency of the Wine and Wine Management Agency, the information given on the Committee on Agriculture that one control was carried out over the whole year because there was no funds? Or how do you comment on the fact that during the past term, the advisory service has been brought to the level that the advisers could not go to the field because they had no fuel? And now here you have an ex-wise mind you're telling yourself that you need to secure the funds. I agree, I agree, but I'm asking you, and why didn't you provide those funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10874	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Jacobine will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10875	Thank you very much, Vice President. In accordance with budget options, the Agency, advisory services and all activities by ministry administrations were planned and implemented according to the planned means. My intervention was in the direction that these funds were cut, or downloaded, that the nominal budget was significantly higher than last year's 2015 budget, which was the largest agricultural budget ever in history. And that I believe that saving you or that rationalization wasn't supposed to work on inspection services. As a rule, it was done almost on all inspection services, with reduced resources for official controls. Do all have to work more or better or be a service to agricultural producers, yes. I can't agree, and I think this is pretty unfounded or unverified information, the Advisory Service has been doing everything it takes and it's not true that they didn't have the means to go to the field. It's just that there's been a lot more control of both and what and how it's done on that ground compared to what it used to be. In the past, these official vehicles were used for the most acceptable purposes, for tours, for parties, for such or such cases, there was now a certain control of the executives, and then probably the dissatisfaction of those individuals you say did not have enough resources to carry out their basic work assignments as advisers. And we can look at the budget, we can look at the items that were planned and compare to the items last year and we can take a phonogram from the session of this Assembly when it was debated the budget of the Republic, when I pointed out from the pay phone and in this debate that the funds planned for service inspections are not enough, that they should be increased, that they should be redistributed, that they should be found possible within. Now I'm glad that a few months later and the right side of the assembly actually confirms the same story, that control just doesn't know how to finance them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10876	Thank you. The next one is the distinguished representative Josip Križanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jakovina, you said you disagreed with the mitigation of corrective measures. Almost all the representatives of this House a month ago, we discussed precisely the need to relieve the economy, that we should not step on firms that are in a difficult situation anyway, and I argue repressive measures have been mitigated in a way that the first review writes the minutes, so the solution is given to the warrant and when the solution is executed for about a month or two and if the implementation of the solution is not carried out in this case alone for repressive measures both in terms of sanctions and penalties and in terms of application. So writing a record is the same educational measure. You were talking about educating people. I'm sure with this way we'll do a lot more than every time we come and write a ticket. As for official controls and money for official controls, the money for official controls has a redistribution of tasks and jobs for sure that we can do more in this work but I will always be behind this speaker for every time the inspector goes out on the ground not to write a penalty and does not write a misapplication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10878	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10879	When the subject is history, then we will be the Company and the esteemed Vice President Tihomir Jakovina, not the Company of Jacobina, is the historian. And my dear colleague, I agree with you, this is the way and methodology of the inspector's work when they come into business. What you were saying first, you were actually talking about discharging the economy of parafiscal liabilities. It also seems to me that you do not have to talk about this to me because in the four-year term, we have removed more than one billion kunas of parafiscal charges from the Croatian economy from the water contribution,... a variety of benefits that have been tied up so that I expect in fact a set of measures for further removal of parafiscal charges but a whole economy in this way to reduce the compensation and disagreements caused by, confusion or sending false information to the consumer of a particular business entity. We are not helping the Croatian economy, we are helping the one who is not working under Croatian legislation, and we will not realise it as something that makes it easier for the Croatian economy. I agree with you, I would like to see, in fact, that what you say has enough resources to redistribute the activity, the work, the existing means that these inspections will be greater. I'd like it to be that way. I am not for a repressive apparatus, I am for a thoughtful, good, quality approach to the inspection service itself on the ground, but not in such a way as to allow business entities to send to the end consumer, send the user false information through false declaration and through what we leave or potentially leave with the law the possibility that there is a time limit of 2 or 6 months to correct these non-compliances on the declared product itself or similar. There are other ways and other models to help the economy through the right classic removal of parafiscal charges, reduction of fees, I don't know, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, compensation paid by the economy, take it off by 25, 50, 70% or cancel and here help the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10880	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10881	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Jakovina, you're right to control the inspection required funds. And here I would agree that it should mean more resources for inspections and control because without funds it can't go, so it can't be implemented that measure or that amendment of the law. However, consumer protection in Croatia would also kill domestic production. For what? If we import food that's garbage on the European and world market. If we control that, our market will have our home food. So, the Croats are eager for domestic food. The inspections and controls themselves would achieve what has not been achieved during you or the former that we are not being imported by foreign garbage, that our people do not buy food for which they are sick, which is not worth it, which the outsiders are burning to kill. It was cheaper to send her to the Croatian market through chains and drag her through than to set her on fire in their countries. So we just have to be unanimous, it doesn't matter whether it's on the left or on the right or on the center, but the fact is again I'm going to tell you that the frozen New Zealand lamb in transport here is 12 kg per kilogram and in the production of domestic lamb is 10 euros, of course our people are going to buy, pensioners, a kilo of lamb for 13 kuna, because they can buy ten kilos domestically, unfortunately of questionable quality, health care, so it wasn't working right. That's why our fields are empty, which is why the stables are empty. This is why the Croatian people are eager for domestic food and everything lies with us and is empty. I think this measure is good, of course it should, and here I agree that the financial resources for this should be found as soon as possible, no matter what is not planned can always be changed, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10882	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10883	Thank you, dear Vice President. Informing consumers about the quality of Croatian products whether through the promo campaign "Bought Croatian" or similar where it is not only to take the best quality or best because we like to think of ourselves as Croatians as the best producers but also to protect jobs and protect our production on Croatian farms. Anyway, that's where I can agree with you. But the whole series is things that actually condition what comes to the Croatian market, as well as how. All goods coming from the internal market and we are talking about 28 EU members are no longer normally imports. There are equal obligations, equal rights and equal responsibilities of all these producers as well as of our manufacturers when they place such goods on the internal market. Here I agree with you that controls are important, controls should be but controls cannot stop and cannot make competitive Croatian production because there is no possibility of placing bans. What you mentioned about that lamb that's below all the cost of why the system didn't react. Neither you nor any of your colleagues or colleagues here are measured to say that some of the food is junk on the Croatian market or that something is wrong. We can show suspicion that something inappropriate price cannot have that quality, but if you look at one Denmark where the production of carers annually is based on 25 million pieces, and we say that Denmark by population or area is there as we are or less, then they have one production that is much cheaper in pigmeat production than in our Republic of Croatia. And maybe that's why they're more favourable with the price, not because the pork that comes from Denmark is garbage. But don't think that I'm representing these imports now, but no, the controls should be, there should be measures to encourage Croatian production through a number of other measures, but let's not determine that some things are junk, let's give the system, let's let the services do their part of the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10884	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10885	Dear Vice President, I will read: “The worlds ended in the hospital, among them and the young, this is a complete disaster! More than 100 people were killed by food." This happened in Vinkovci in a wedding hall last weekend where there are patients who are in Bosnia and Austria who have consumed food in the dining room of the wedding hall which is directly owned by the owner of a stronger chain that also has a concession or contract to feed all those students who come to Vukovar as part of the school. It is therefore necessary to invest as much as possible in inspectorates and those who will exercise supervision of the same or similar systems. For what? Well, because it looks like we don't have our own quality domestic food anymore. If our dairy has been cut off because of bad milk or some germs found there, if the perading is the same, so we don't know where the chicken comes from, if the catfish comes from Vietnam, the lamb from New Zealand, if our pork is infected with swine fever or if we don't know what it is and if our horses have leptospirosis or I don't know what it's called, the mouse fever I don't know... The rest of you are healthy, and the food that's coming out now is important that we check that we don't go, and we don't go, just like we did, and everyone who's been growing this once healthy food of ours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank God I see there's more shockers who are 90 years old and still have that fat bacon and they don't miss anything. The more you invest in inspectorates, the more they control cases like this, so it doesn't happen to us all. And I don't know what we're eating in our mess downstairs, to check it out. Don't let God be what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10886	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10887	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Culej and I probably eat homework in Slavonia, eat quality food, eat good food. This is an isolated case in Vinkovci that shows in one way and all the misery and all the things that are not good and in the catering offer with us in Slavonia if we use the groceries that are from imports. I never thought that in any debate I would agree with you but now I have to confirm that I am actually standing on that inspection never enough and that in fact we in this House should not in any way loosen the criteria and allow players who do not play by the rules that further confuse our customers and that they are working against the interests of Croatian citizens in terms of food quality, as regards food health, and as regards everything that this product on the shelf whether a supermarket or in a catering facility must have. But it's not all about control, I say, and it's about education, investing in the system and everything that one quality system needs. It seems to me that someone in the debate mentioned earlier that there are institutions that determine or make recommendations on the validity of certain products. I'll just remind you that last year, the Food Agency first made such recommendations for some dairy products. It's the first time in 25 years. The agency that's been very, very long and large for many years has done it for the first time in a year. As a system, we must work much more and much better towards end-users but in order for citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10888	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HDS, the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10889	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome all of you, and on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Croatian Democratic Party, we will support the adoption of a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Consumer Information Act for a reason because we are in line with EU declarations 828/2014. since it clearly defines the supervisory authorities and the rules of conduct and provides for certain easy circumstances and an educational way of accessing inspections in determining certain non-compliance. Of course, we must focus on consumer interest, consumer health, consumer information because this is how we safeguard their health but thus protect domestic production, which must also be in our interest. It is also mentioned here that a number of laws need to be passed to protect domestic production and encourage production and inform consumers of food quality. So here we welcome the announced adoption of the Law on Fair Commercial Practice, and I think it is a matter of urgency to bring it forward to prevent the different behaviours of shopping houses that import all over our Croatian market. I think it is necessary to define more clearly the area of food declaration, above all to see from the declaration where the food is produced, where it has been processed, where it has been frozen and how long it has been frozen and whether it has been reprocessed. In this way, consumers would have quality information and would be more determined to choose what they buy, and I always advocate buying homemade, buying quality and Croatian. Everyone said it was necessary to enhance the frequency of food traffic controls and declaration controls and we agree with that. And we think that within the framework and redistribution of funds, within the framework of the division of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health which is also responsible. In this area, more quality supervision can be ensured, especially as it is on the ground, the impression that our domestic producers, family farms and food companies are more controlled than import goods and imports of goods. Of course, we are part of the European common market and food produced on the European market is produced as such we should not and should not be further controlled. However, this is one of the superstandards that some other European countries in the field of protecting their consumers and protecting their production. And I think we have experience in this direction from some European countries and where we should look up to them. Because not everything that has been produced in the EU and declared always right. You have an example in the automotive industry where the terrible controls are and where the vehicles are declared with the amount of exhaust gas and the quality of individual gases. And in the end, it turned out that it wasn't true, so the vehicles were withdrawn from the market. Similarly, it can be determined on its own with some food products. And we already had different independent houses that explored the quality of the products in the trade chains in Munich and in Zagreb of the same manufacturer, so it was found that I am now not advertising the product that the product in Croatia is worse quality than the one bought in Germany. This must not happen in Croatia. We must protect the Croatian consumer, and we also have an opportunity through our High Representative in the European Commission, Mr Mimic, who is in charge of this particular area to make us work better, to get information in time what the European Commission is planning in this area so that Croatia can react better as well. And I think that we should get information that is being taken in this area by the European Commission, and yet we have to run our own policy because this law and the Law on Fair Commercial Practice also needs to be a tool to protect domestic production to inform the Croatian consumer in quality and ultimately to eat domestic lamb and domestic junetine from organic farming, and to make it clearly declared. Therefore, I will conclude with the need for more supervision, that this law should also specify more precisely the jurisdiction of agricultural inspection, veterinary inspection, sanitary inspection and that market inspection should be included. And I think we need better coordination between these state inspections. And I think that was better when it was within the state's inspectorate. And I think you should consider returning under one roof that every inspection knows what his colleague's doing, where they've been doing the controls, where they're not and where they're not, and, of course, to strengthen the controls not with our domestic producers because they're already threatened by trade chains. If I tell you that one food producer from New Gradiška, we won't name him without advertising him, he has to pay for the chain of commerce to enter the chain of commerce, a meter of shelves, that he has to follow their actions and go with price reductions and finally to pay him in due time he still has to pay... konto and up to 8%. And you know how much it goes from his product and up to 50% of the production price of his product. Can a domestic producer hold it? He can't. We need to protect him, and that's why I mentioned better coordination of state bodies to put an end to this. And here I think that it is in everyone's interest to strengthen the education and informing consumers first and foremost about the need to read what it says in the declarations and to buy domestic products. And I think we should all support the actions launched as we buy milk from Croatian farms, buy honey from Croatian meadows, buy meat from domestic production from our family farms and our processing industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10890	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first has a respected representative, Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10891	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Vlaovic, unfortunately this law will not change these things that you have stated today is Thursday, first and second reading, the Government today was not, the question is whether it will be today, tomorrow or any more week, so there is no one to really and what we are discussing today turns into amendments, respect and possibly change which government amendment and send us here for the adoption of a law that will be amended. And one other thing I wanted to actually complete you, or correct you, we do not have a restriction in the Republic of Croatia on the control of products coming from the EU market. We can no longer control them at the border whether phytosanitary and sanitary, veterinary or similar inspection services such goods are no longer controlled at the border but on supermarket shelves, in butchers, in centres, in catering facilities we have, we have to, and we have to, we have to control our production to make sure that it's top quality, that health is right, that everything is out right. But we can't leave this story uncontrollably under the pretext that this stuff can't be controlled. What we can and where we must control is already at the border and where colleagues do so depending on how much they have the funds is imports from third countries. So this sad example of the lamb that my colleague Bulj mentioned was actually probably imports then directly from third countries that should have been controlled at the border but also through the facilities and throughout the whole network of placing it on the market. I just didn't hear when that lamb came in, 2014, 2015, 2012 or 2016, so your colleague is from MOST quota and your party colleague is the minister, your inspection services. I'm sorry that or at least hope that this case will also be subject to inspection and that we will have information here in the home whether this lamb is really junk, or medically invalid, or whether it is a product that meets all the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10892	I thank you for the response of the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10893	Thank you, Vice President. You said your colleague Jakovina was more important to you now which years were imported. I don't think it should matter to you, I think it should be said it shouldn't be imported under such circumstances and such quality and with such prices and found on the Croatian table that we consume such meat. I think in that part we should have that common opinion that way. And I agree with you that you need more control in the trade chains and monitoring more import goods, of course monitoring domestic production. I, too, pointed out in my debate that it is the impression that it is more controlled and that there is more pressure on domestic producers than on imported goods. And when I was preparing for this debate, I asked well how many controls were in certain areas, it was said here, as regards wine, that there was one control and in some other areas two or three controls a year. Too little and I think we're all set here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10894	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10895	I'd like to agree with you fellow in your debate. And I will repeat once again that it is saddened that in a free independent Croatia Croatians are eager for domestic food from Croatian fields, from the stables of Croatians. The fact that because of imports of non-quality goods, through trade chains of course and through markets that are of any character or city or even, today the situation is happening to the villages with... import goods and sales, it used to be the other way around, from the village to the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is so underrated that in the middle of summer, pomidors, tomatoes, or as it is said, depending on where we come to be in the market 20 lip imports of Italian or I have no idea whose and leave it on the closet next year is always the same. So either it's a GMO product or it's unquality. And a domestic producer doesn't pay off. So we're simply not in control of anything but simply agreeing with the big trade chains as well as the former minister, this one was supposed to control it, of course. Incentives again give a team of large EU funds that were set up two months ago and then complete funds go to these large centres, owners who destroy small peasants, and therefore we have 50,000 emigrated from Slavonia in the last 4 years. That's the problem. It is not a problem who will be prime minister, who will be minister, the problem is to protect the national interest, the Croatian country, the Croatian field, to produce, it is a national interest. Whether this government lasts or doesn't, I know you're glad, but if you come and build the way you did, it's a disaster. That is why I hope that all future prime ministers and ministers will take exclusive care of domestic production because the Croatian man is eager for Croatian domestic products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10896	Thank you. The honourable representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10897	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, I fully agree with you that we need to find ways to regulate the market in Croatia, how to protect our domestic producer, our family economies. It is absurd that in Croatia agriculture is a strategic economic branch, that the UN declared last year as a family holding and that the number of family farms, the number of dairy producers, the number of throats produced, and that I am not counting further on all agricultural production in decline is, we simply did not do the job there. What do you do next? Well, I think that with this law and all the laws that we will be making in the future, not only can the Ministry of Agriculture change this picture that we really need to understand that without our own agricultural production, without its own food production, the Republic of Croatia has no future and especially not Slavonia and Baranja and other rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10898	Thank you. The proposer's representative wishes to take the final word. Mr. Tugomir Majdak, Deputy Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10899	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, I thank you for all your comments in the framework of the debate and for the meaning of the Parliamentary Committee on Law and Agriculture. And here I would like to point out a few details on which to give answers from the Resolute Ministry, above all, regarding official controls regulated by special law. Quality controls from imports relate to imports from third countries while food control from the EU means we are now in the common market not being implemented on the border but being carried out on the Croatian market and there we have strengthened stricter measures and penalties. Further administrative measures and infringements are also proposed to amend the laws in order to ensure more effective implementation of official controls and consumer protection. These measures oblige all food business entities to respect their responsibilities in providing information on food to consumers at all stages of food production or processing and to place it on the market. So not only producers, but importers, distributors and merchants. All amendments to the law did not call into question the effectiveness of official controls in general. Lower penalties are provided for those procedures which cannot endanger consumer health while, on the other hand, they have also carried out some criminal provisions according to the already mentioned distributors, traders, importers and food business entities, but including enhanced inspection controls, which we certainly advocate to be as effective as possible. This bill, regardless of the urgency of adoption, also went beyond... counseling and the producers, on the other hand, and consumers had their proposal, and there were no objections to the proposal as part of this consultation. Here are already some of the parliamentary representatives, the future adoption of the Law on unfair trade practices that the Ministry of Agriculture will soon adopt and thus more evenly set the conditions between producers or trade chains. It should certainly also refer to the protection of domestic production within the relevant ministry and, with the necessary information, to the education of consumers, to the need for promotion of domestic local agricultural products, but also to the adoption of strategic documents including priorities and objectives, and to measures that will act incentivically on Croatian agricultural products because they certainly have a place, so by quality and so far have been proven by Croatian agricultural producers to have their place in our but demanding EU market. Here's another thank you for your suggestions, for the debate and for the present meaning, by participating in the adoption of this proposal for a law on food information for consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10900	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending in 2015. Thank you and good-bye to tomorrow! ... There's no proposer here, so we'll have a report on him by tomorrow. [[You can't hear it.]] Session interrupted at 16.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-02-0.u10901	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Information Act on food, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 65. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Food Information Act. Please, who's in? I'm asking for a result. 134 for, 3 abstentions, none against. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Food Information Act. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take our seats and start working. Here's your hand, as usual. Here's the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
