ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7260	Here it is, I'm looking for a break on behalf of...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7261	My colleagues and colleagues, let's just keep it down a notch so we can hear our fellow Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7262	So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Labourists of 5 minutes in connection with the possible issues of patronage that the Croatian Parliament has taken over some events important from national history, so I would briefly discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7263	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7264	Thank you very much. The criteria, the allocations, the interestingness of the distribution criteria of the Ministry of Regional Development have been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7265	That's the darkness?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7266	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7267	Okay, thank you. Anyone else? Honorable representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7268	... Exhausted all possibilities to say what I think should be said in terms of events. [[Specially enabled.]] So curricular reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7269	Curricular reform, okay. Anyone else or are we exhausted? Okay, thank you very much. Then we are, then I'll see you in 9.50 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] So I would like to invite the distinguished representative, Jaroslav Pecnik, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7271	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be as short as possible. He would begin this brief session of words by our esteemed president still of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner. He says in one of his texts: “Citizens chose us to go back to the Second World War that should finally end. They didn't choose us to open old wounds all the time and create divisions. Let's leave the dead alone." I call this ecumenical if I can say that message absolutely welcome, and I think it's the right message for what I'm going to say and I'm calling him and in that spirit I'm going to say, I invite him to follow these words somehow. What's this about? The Croatian Federation of Antifascist Fighters asked for patronage at certain events related to World War II because last year the Croatian Parliament was a sponsor and funded these events, I will list the events but this year it was accepted under patronage but something with finances is not up. And I really don't think the finances here are important because it's going to be marked with or without the parliamentary finances, but it would be just right if we finally started acting civilizedly because if we recorded Bleiburg, if we talked on Bleiburg, which is totally legitimate and totally fine because every victim needs to be memorialized and it's not controversial. I think we should act alike here, too. The problem was the moment when the patronage of Jasenovac was actually accepted and because of events that are known that I do not now speak those words that I can cause, although there is no replica here, then I will still use those words, which means that they actually went to some kind of rehabilitation, revitalization, constitution and all that was happening there. At the end of the international community, the international community's reaction speaks clearly. Now he decided he would not participate in the memorial of this official parliamentary, state, state-run summit, especially after it was said there would be no speech in Jasenovac but that he would actually pay tribute to the silence. True, silence belongs to eternity, but words belong to time, and then it was necessary to talk about this criminal character, actually what was going on in Jasenovac, to know what was going on as it was said about Bleiburg and it was right to talk about Bleiburg and to talk about it, right? It is about events that are related to Jasenovac, the funds have not been received now, it has not participated in the official memorial, there is no, you have not gone along with us and there is no money but the day of victory it is the day which celebrates the entire civilised Europe, the Croatian Parliament has not responded, the government has not responded, the money has not been but it is about modest means. The 22nd State Holiday, Antifascism Day, Bezovica, will respond, as Parliament and Government will respond, we do not know. But this is primarily about the patronage of the Parliament, and then I'm talking about the Parliament. I am talking about ZAVNOH, the basis of Croatian statehood, which will also commemorate, or pardon, the dish, and in any case it is in the preamble of the Croatian Constitution. It would be good if, in the spirit of these words, Mr Reiner tried to find a civilized solution to carry out, along with the patronage, financial obligations, and it is clear to all of us that these are events from history that will always be controversial but must not be events that will lead to the divisions of this society. It is this act of Parliament that could contribute to the fact that the controversy remains because they will simply be there, that everyone will think what they think. I'm never going to put in the same rank as Bleiburg and the Jasenovians, but that doesn't mean I don't respect the victims of Bleiburg or consider them less important, but the fact that everyone has a view of the world but it really doesn't matter right now. It is important that we understand that this society is past, that these are the divisions that are eating us and that should be interrupted and that the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity, Mr Reiner, to simply contribute to the calming of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7272	Thank you very much. Maybe it's to clarify you and your colleagues. So, first of all, the Croatian Parliament decides on patronage, not the president's decision, but the presidency's decision, which includes representatives of the opposition. Therefore, if a request is made to the Bureau of Parliament or Parliament as a whole, then the Bureau of the Assembly shall decide on the sponsorships. So it's not the president's private business, either this or the former president's. It is a matter of the Presidency of the Parliament which accepts, on behalf of the Parliament, certain sponsorships on the basis of the request to be sent. If the application is not sent then of course the patronage can't be given and the truth works, now I have to say something I haven't said yet. I had to do with Jasenovac and the marking of Jasenovac a few days before that meeting with the president of the Union of Anti-fascist Fighters with whom I agreed on a precise sequence of how to go marking, about songs, about music about everything together and, of course, he made it clear that he would participate in then simply the Union of anti-fascist fighters did not appear. It's true, we put everything else aside, of course. Okay. ... Comrade Pecnik, I'm telling you again. [[- A break-in from the side. You can't hear it.]] It's not, read the Rules of Procedure if you don't trust me with the former President of Parliament, it's a matter of decision from the Bureau of Parliament if he gets such a request, if he doesn't get a request, there's no patronage for anyone, right? Thank you very much. He will now take the word of Honorary Representative Radimir Cacic on behalf of the SDSS Club, reformist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Politics probably not only with us, but it's certainly on the border between comedy and tragedy, but in any case farsic. In these last endless years in politics, they've always asked me, so what do you do, why, what do you really want to do with that society? And my answer was mostly, although I don't see it on me, that's because I have a sensitive stomach. I mean, I can't stand the level of concentration of stupidity and incompetence, and especially when I'm being made, they look me in the eye and make me a fool. Oh, no? That's hard on my stomach. Oh, no? Money distributions have just been made by the Ministry of Regional Development. Since we're not pulling anything out of the European funds, since after the complete incompetence on the last government's plan we welcomed even worse this one then we go further by the same logic that we've always gone through, every fool knows how to spend other people's money, the money of Croatian citizens. Get out of the budget and give it to yourself! The distribution criteria are simple. I've made an effort to look only at those of me in the north. That's cute. I'll read it to you. I'll start with the best Međimurje County. Out of ten municipalities and one city, only two are opposition, two municipalities. Then you have something else with some kind of fig leaf Krapina-Zagorska. Of 11 projects, one opposition, one independent, nine HDZ. And that's where we spread out in Varazdin. Is there 5 municipalities that got the money, all five HDZs, the only five HDZs they have, they deserve support, because only there are hard living, only those criteria recognize the need to give money. So people who aren't ashamed of themselves? So can we put up with it? So let's get the people serious! So don't talk to me, no, so I'm too old for nonsense. Well, I was in a position to give money. Somebody tell me, there have been many mayors and mayors here, and now there are some in your ranks who know that it was never that according to the criteria they didn't get HDZ cities and municipalities. It was never when I was in that position. And that's how it has to be, no. ... Maybe, but not when I was in that position. [[You can't hear it.]] Next up, my boys. The criteria for urban development have been published. 365m euros, 365m euros. Quiet, boys! .../Intruder President: My colleagues please be quiet to hear what counterpart Cacic has to say, and my colleague Cacic, I am in charge of the session and not you. I'm asking for peace. [[- Quiet. I can't hear myself. .../]] Here's your colleague, Cacic. Criteria for urban development on the 14th, the 20th 365m euros. Of course, there's still time to take it. It's easy to share someone else's budget, it needs a little ability. Maybe we'll just show that. 7 cities per 2 in Slavonia, 2 in Dalmatia Rijeka, Pula, Istria, Primorje, Zagreb. Not one from the north, not one. Of 365m euros, no one else deserves it but these. Yeah, well, of course we're underdeveloped, that the lowest wages in this country are in Varazdin County. Others are the lowest in Međimurje. From 360m euros, not one cent from fourteenth to twentieth is foreseen for northern towns, or Varazdin, nor Čakovec, nor Krapina, nor Koprivnica, nor Bjelovar, nor Karlovac, nor Sisak. People, let's do a little different criteria when we talk about money that needs to be helped by all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7274	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the HSS Club, HDZ will take the word of the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7275	Dear gentlemen, the Honorable President of the Parliament. I've been thinking about whether it makes sense to talk about what I'm going to talk about in these five minutes, given that probably these two words that are being used today are the reforms and curricula of the two most often spoken words of the last few months. To be more interesting, these two words are connected to the curricular reform. And now the question arises in view of this all that happens is whether it makes sense to start with the next sentence, which is one of the 20, the code of the American Indians. There are 20 points, and point 20 says that children are seeds of the future and recommend the planting of love in their hearts, water them with wisdom and by learning life, as they grow up, give them a place to grow. The question arises: Is there even one reasonable man on the planet who would be against this? However, everyone calls on these children to say that through this reform the future of our children is determined. And I agree with that. So if that's the case, can we even suspect that there is someone, on either side, that it would be against determining our children's better future, and in a specific case, the whole society we live in, so if you want civilizations to. We are small but a small part of the civilization in which we live can be beneficial. And now the curricular reform that is being talked about has been transformed into a political topic of first-rate importance. So it started to talk about how there are one policies that are for and policies that are against. I'd beg to point my finger at anyone who's against it and in a way that shows itself in substance why it is, which concludes that someone is against it. Gentlemen, this is not about political opponents, this is about professional disagreements I would say not even about conflict but about professional disagreements. If we look at the group that was doing this, which I am giving great recognition and respect, it is appointed, that former Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic says they are his choice, then it is a political decision. And now we're getting into a situation that after these people made one valuable item, it turns out there's a void. And the constituency board and the club, I'm saying this on behalf of the HSS Club and the HDS, finds that there are gaps. He only wants to fill them in with experts who aren't represented in the whole story. Why go like that I'd tell the bottom of that logic to fix something and fix it? And then the question arises, is the curricula reform a reason for petty day-to-day political games? That's right, who's running the policy? Don't think I'm criticizing anyone right now, but the SDP is calling people into the street for that. It's circulating now, the SDP is inviting people to the street. So shall we let such an important thing be decided by the street? When you ask them what really is, here's what you can look at if you suspect. I'm not against going out on the street either, but if that important theme is going to happen on the street, then we're really wondering what we need? I'm asking you all at the Parliament to try to lower the ball. So there is no doubt that we want to continue this reform because it is necessary. I was one of the few university professors against the sick process as it was set up. Now it's turned out to be bad. Is it better to do that, not act like construction workers who dig up a canal and put water pipes on it and then bury it and dig again and put on a power cable? So let's do everything right, the urgency in this isn't imperative, nor is it the point of breaking down a group that I think is more likely set up as an expert group. Expert group, you know, that's a terrible term. Let others think so, and I call for tolerance. So we are for an absolute continuation of reform but to be done in one quality way, to do what is not good, and to respect what is good inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u7276	Thank you very much. Here's what we're done with the break-related presentations. Let's move on to the agenda. Today we should first discuss - The final draft law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Miro Skrgatic, Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10412	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament before us is the first text of one of the several laws run by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, so it is the final proposal to amend the Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports. Here, I'll try to be brief. We intervened in this legal text on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for two reasons. The first is to speed up the process of solving such cases, of course through a model of decentralised approach. So far, this problem has been the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the proposal is for regional units of self-government to deal with these acts and for those in their field to deal with these issues. This is about two key and typical areas. One is the Lim Channel, and the other is the Maloston Bay and a little sea. It is therefore the award of concessions and, of course, the parallel services related to those concessions. It is a significant part of the administrative work that has been resolved by the county so far in the preparatory phase. We suggest that if we adopt such a proposal for a final law to deal with the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, also Istria, and I think this is where I would have achieved this double effect. So on the one hand, we would decentralise some of the obligations and powers that the Government of the Republic of Croatia now has, so we would transfer these powers to regional administration, and on the other hand, we would skip at least one administrative barrier that is slowing down this whole process today. At the annual level, we get about two hundred requests for such a form of concessions, which are generally up to ten years old, after which the competition must be re-elected by the entity or the legal person who will deal with this business. It's boring and it worked, it's well-stalked but I repeat there's a lot of administrative work we're trying to take down as part of the burden in deciding the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the effects are concerned, I must say that the financial resources associated with these concessions are somewhere on an annual level of around 380 thousand kuna. It is therefore not a large or significant asset that would have any particular impact on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and this was one reason why we should delegate this part of the activity to the county or regional administration. Currently there are 113 active concessions in the Bay of Maloston and the Small Sea and the surface area of maritime goods that is activated and which is now consumed is about a million and a half meters square. I repeat, so the amount of these funds is about 380 thousand kuna, so these funds are distributed tripartitely, a third goes to the state budget, a third goes to the regional administration and a third goes to local self-government so to municipalities and cities. Here I suggest that the text as proposed with these nomotechnical remarks that we have adopted so that such text gets the green light and that we can therefore continue with these activities. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10413	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I can't see them. I therefore open the debate and the first word on behalf of the SDP club will be taken by the distinguished representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10414	Good afternoon, everyone. The maritime well-being is an extremely valuable resource and deserves and obliges us to adopt a new law on the one hand to preserve for the future, and on the other hand, systematic measures and with a strategic approach to economic use. Thus, an appropriate systematic and precise legal regulation that follows the modern and generally accepted European and global achievements is a necessary prerequisite for this development. The Maritime Good Act, which was integrated on seaports, came into force on 15 June 2003, and during the last ten years, some ambiguities were therefore observed, in particular regarding the work of the issues related to its content and application. In the application of the applicable law, it has been established that a large number of issues should therefore be regulated differently in order to modernise access to marine good and seaport management itself. On 28 December 2012, a new Law on concessions in which a number of newspapers were introduced concerning the concession procedure, concession contracts, the termination of concessions, the right to protection in concession procedures and the policy of concessions in general entered into force. And since the concession is a fundamental legal institute based on the economic benefit of the maritime well-being, there is also a need for significant changes to the applicable law or, in fact, the adoption of a new Law on the Sea Good, so that there is no ambiguity in the application and application of legal certainty or uncertainty itself. The SDP Club does not support partial solutions by amending an article proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and concerns concessions for the purpose of economic use of maritime goods from the... regional importance in the last reserves. And I will point out that the last reservation is an area of land or sea of particular importance for its uniqueness, rarity, or representativeness, or the habitat of endangered wildlife. It does not allow actions and activities which may distort the properties for which it has been declared and procedures, actions, activities that maintain or improve the conditions of importance for the preservation of the properties for which it has been declared a reservation. And now, in fact, by modifying an article, that right is handed over in the jurisdiction of regional self-government or county. Amendments to the law as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are very inconsistencies because, according to the Nature Protection Act, special reserves and high level of protection as well as strict reserves and national park i.e. All of them are from the national i.e. State significance, and the award of concessions must remain in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the SDP Club will refer to the parliamentary procedure of the new Maritime Good Act, which will regulate the jurisdiction of the administrative departments in the units of the regional and regional self-government responsible for maritime affairs to determine the limit of maritime goods in order to speed up the procedure, the concession procedure for maritime good in order to comply with the Law on concessions, the institute of concessions on request, the obligation of the concession provider to carry out preliminary and preparatory actions to grant concessions in accordance with the procedures and actions of a certain Law on concessions, and the introduction of authorisations granted by the chairman body of the unit of local self-government on the basis of a public tender for a period of 4 years. So the sea beaches, anchors and berths would be defined and the time limit would be established to determine the issue of sea-breathing. In addition, a part of maritime goods management operations would be determined by the authority of the central authority responsible for the availability and management of State property, the law and duty of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs to participate in the process of production and adoption of all documents and acts of spatial order covering the area of maritime goods and in the units of the area. A regional self-government would be established by a county port administration that could have outposts. And what's most important to big cities would be given the right to set up a city port administration. It would also be the duty of the County Port Authority to carry out port activities while the concession to carry out port activities was granted only exceptionally and exclusively for the construction and economic use of new building and upgrade facilities. Accept and hand over all kinds of waste from maritime facilities and supply of water facilities with fuel. A unique port tariff would be introduced in ports open to public transport of county and local importance that would unite port fees, port fees. And the port directors would be introduced to oversee the implementation of the port... in ports open for public transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question would also be settled... on the maritime well-being because 10 of the facilities are especially in one status which is not legally resolved because they are described in basic capital by the facilities that are located in the maritime good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, only the adoption of a new Law on maritime good and seaports would create conditions for investment on the maritime good and, in particular, the substructure in line with the strategic provisions that ensure sustainable development, with respect and promotion of the application of the highest standards of marine environmental protection. Therefore, the SDP club will not accept partial amendments to an article but rather advocates the adoption of a whole new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10415	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10416	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Assistant Minister and the esteemed Mrs. Perko. MOST Independent Lists will adopt this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports relating to two categories of amendments. One category of change relates to the transfer of the power to grant concessions in special reserves from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to units of regional self-government and the other to the possibility of transfer of secondary activities under the concession agreement. What is important to point out in these two amendments that this change of jurisdiction in the special concession reserves is one positive change, especially given the complexity of the concession procedures and the very capacitation of the offices in the counties which are actually very close to the areas in which concessions are awarded and all possible excesses that may occur when awarding concessions will certainly be able to be resolved much faster than the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is also a special opportunity to point out that no previous government has recognized the potentials that lie on the maritime good, and this government is also talking about this and one of the most important guidelines in the development programme is actually how to put as much inactive property into office as possible. In order for all assets to be put into operation, it is necessary to put into service when it comes to the maritime good, a very complex procedure from the very setting of maritime good limits to the adoption of solutions, tendering for concessions. And it is certainly an appeal to invest as much in the education of people at both local, regional and national level. As far as I know, there's enough to talk about this in the Ministry today to make a solution to the borders, it seems to me, only one man for all coastal counties that's buried with thousands of objects standing there, and there's one huge potential. Of course, the limit between sustainable use and the devastation of maritime goods is very thin. That is why I am saying that it is good especially in special reserves in protected areas of nature where it is necessary to ensure the consistency of man and nature is very important to assign this to counties that each excess can safely contain and address these problems as soon as possible. When we talk about another category, or another part of this law, in which we transfer one part of the power, or which speaks of the possibility of one part of the concession, so the secondary activity can be transferred from the existing concessionaire to another, I would also like to say a few words there. I think that this is also a positive change in the sense that the possibility of awarding concessions here, i.e. the power to transfer concessions is now given to the competent administrative departments in the county rather than to the county assembly as a concession provider. This is good from the point of view of the speed of the procedure, however, there is one great possibility of misuse of these concession procedures. Why? It's precisely because it's nowhere to be defined as a secondary activity. There is no specific decision or regulation anywhere which are secondary activities that can be transferred. And also, here in a certain way, it damages the state budget precisely because a concessionaire on a maritime good can transfer a part of the concession to a new concession authority. This new concession authority will not pay any fixed or variable compensation for the use of maritime goods paid by the concession authorities on the maritime good which is the income, which is distributed in thirds to the revenues of the unit of local self-government awarded the concession. Part belongs to the county and part belongs to the cities. Therefore, it may theoretically be that a concession authority transfers one part of a concession that is very valuable to another concession authority and the State will lose significant revenue because that concession authority will not be able to register in the concession register or pay its share. And of course, the authorising officer who transferred the concession will earn income from the lease or business cooperation. Thus, in this part, it should be defined here and what activities these activities are, or should be clearly defined which activities can be transferred under concession or over which transfer of the concession can be carried out. And of course, you should define how that someone who gets one part of the concession, to which one part of the concession will be transferred, in which way he will also pay the state something because he actually takes advantage of the maritime well-being and doesn't pay anything in that part. Here, so much for the Independent List Most, and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10417	Thank you. Next up is the HDZ club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. This is because the proposed amendments are short, only 5 articles to bring further decentralisation of maritime good governance, which is what we in the HDZ Club in the last term, with our own proposal for a Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, have announced as one of the basics that should include a more recent integrated Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. In particular, this law empowers the central state to concentrate on special reservations, which the Deputy Minister himself said, therefore, this law refers to two locations in Croatia and this is the Little Sea and Maloston Bay in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Lim Channel in Istria County. So, these are the two only special reservations on maritime goods and apply only to two counties, yet it goes for it to leave certain powers when it comes to the management of maritime goods from the central government and the ministry of the County Assembly and the regional self-government. This is good because we hold that there are still a number of jobs that are regulated by the existing Law on Maritime Goods, which continue to be established and done in Zagreb if, as I can say, they are in charge of the Government or the competent ministry and it would be good, it would be wise and meaningful to regulate these tasks in the area self-government, so regional self-government at the level of the county and certain jobs should be reduced one more step down, i.e. the units of local self-government or cities and municipalities that have maritime good. What would have been good if this law had followed when we were talking and we were going into further decentralisation then it would have been good to have made it possible, with such an amendment, that for these matters, the unit of the district self-government had certain financial resources because, for example, these transactions for the Dubrovnik-Neretva County were not small and it was certainly good that we were, in addition to the downing of powers that this law followed and the drop of financial resources towards the unit of the regional self-government. Namely, if we are specifically talking about the Bay of Maloston and the Small Sea in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, then at the moment this law refers to 73, it seems to me to be the legal person who has 205 concession fields in the Small Sea and Maloston Bay and it is not a small business. This is a job that needs to be properly implemented, which should be monitored so as to pay concession fees on the one hand, on the other hand, whether the concession authority is actually using the field it is assigned to, whether it is using it in the way that it is the Nature Protection Act on the one hand and whether it is a Maritime Good Act, whether that concession is indeed implemented and would be good, since this implies significant new costs to the unit of the regional self-government. It would be a good idea, then, with this provision, to bring down therefore the financial resources to the units of the regional self-government. Speaking of protecting the Bay of Maloston and Lim Channel, I must say, it would have been good if this law had followed the amendment of another law, it's the Marine Fisheries Act. We were also in the last term when the Government passed the Law on Marine Fisheries claimed that it was necessary to enable concession authorities in this area to protect these concentrated areas from fish predators that completely destroy this concession area, destroy the farming of mariculture mariculture, and it would be good for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to immediately start amending the Sea Fisheries Act in order to allow the concession authorities to, when they are already paying for a concession from the Republic of Malta to protect themselves according to the Predator Fish Act, which largely destroy the complete concession fields in Maloston Bay. The existing law allowed these breeders to defend themselves with stemming nets, single nets, a proposal and it would be good if the government had already started to change to save that part of the Bay of Maloston, and precisely because of the farming of seashells was declared a special reserve to allow shell growers to protect themselves with triple nets of barns so that they could really protect the concession area for which the area and for which the field is paid by the RH concession fee, so I think it would be one of the measures that we welcome would also contribute to better quality farming of seashells and the pursuit of maricculture in Maloston Bay. Otherwise, I said in the introduction that we would support this law because it means further decentralisation but it is appropriate to mention in this occasion that the need and obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to go with the new Law on Maritime Good for several reasons that I will state. I must say that I find it a little strange that a representative of the SDP Club conditioned the support of this law or does not accept the amendments to this law is that they are only segmented in one piece if we know that behind them is the whole mandate in which we have not seen in the Croatian Parliament the amendments to the Law on the Sea Good and especially not the newer Law on the Sea Good. So I would say a little bit why this law will not be supported when, behind us for 4 years in which the former government or the SDP or the Kukuriku coalition should go with the new law, more so that during that term, we of the HDZ Club have proposed a whole law here, a whole Law on Maritime Good and Seaports here in the Croatian Assembly, which the club of the ruling then unanimously rejected even though it was said to be a good quality law. What we have proposed then, I think, that there should be some solution that this government should also accept, which is several important segments, which is primarily that no right of ownership on the maritime goods can be acquired on any basis, that further decentralisation of maritime goods that would respect the position of counties, large cities and units of local self-government or cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is necessary. That further decentralisation of the financial resources collected on the maritime good is necessary. It is necessary to establish a new way of establishing maritime good limits. In fact, one of the essential assumptions of unquality management of maritime good is the unresolved limit of maritime good. The maritime well-being in the Republic of Croatia is about 6000 km long and in 26 years the Croatian state has only established 18% of the maritime goods border, about 1000 km away. So, every six kilometers of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia is just defined, defined. That's not good. This makes it very impossible to manage maritime well - being quality management. This also happened because so far the legal solutions meant that the maritime good line was first established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 2003, which was truly incomprehensible that the maritime goods border was determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its session. A new solution was later adopted in 2003 to resolve the maritime goods line by the ministry on a proposal from the county commission, which is also not good because it has proved that the ministry is not able to quickly resolve and establish maritime goods borders. And therefore, the solution that we have proposed in the Croatian Democratic Community club is that maritime goods borders define the county and possibly the right to appeal then solve the ministry. Thus, by establishing the limit of maritime goods, the very definition of 6000 km of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia will improve the use and management of maritime goods, but primarily the economic use of maritime goods. It is almost incomprehensible that all units of regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, so all the counties in the Republic of Croatia that are by the sea, so coastal, maritime counties of maritime goods, from concessions to maritime good incomes annually, are around 10.11 million kuna. This is relative to the value of maritime goods, in relation to the importance of maritime goods, a very small amount, and I think it should, as soon as possible, be defined to the full maritime well-being and through a maritime good management plan to address the issue of economic use of maritime goods. So let me get this straight. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club support the amendments to the law, because they represent decentralisation of maritime goods. It would have been good if this solution had followed and brought down new additional funding to the units of the regional self-government, because to implement this process, the local, regional self-government unit will have certain costs so that we can concentrate on saying only in Dubrovnik-Neretva County over 200 concession fields. It would've been good if it'd followed. The third thing that we are proposing is that, in addition to this law, if we really want to protect these natural, or natural reserves such as Maloston Bay and Lim Channel, it is necessary to enable the concession authorities to protect themselves, because if they can't grow the shells and mariculture in these reserves, then they won't be able to pay the concession fee, nor will they be able to carry out the quality of the concession given to them. That's the third thing. And the fourth crucial thing that we are proposing in the Croatian Democratic Community club is that the government will move quickly to draft a new Law on Maritime Good, and on the trail of that solution which the Croatian Democratic Community Club has sent to Parliament in the previous term and which the Parliament then discussed, but because of its will, the ruling majority of the bill was not adopted. But I do believe that, with very, very small changes, this law today can be a pattern of how to manage and use maritime goods. So to conclude, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10419	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10420	Dear counterpart Bačić, I agree with the majority, in fact, with almost everything you have said in your presentation and I certainly support that a large part of the powers that are now at the state level are arranged, the existing Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, in a completely new law, should be transposed to units of regional, or local self-government, because they know best their needs in their fields. But once again, I will show here what is a fact, which is that we have a huge problem with human potential when it comes to the preparation of these complex procedures and that the adoption of such significant and major changes should certainly be accompanied by human resources. We in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I actually worked and for a time was the head of the department that dealt with these affairs we did quite successfully. But there was always this problem that simply given the number of requests that came to us every day, which for the award of concessions, which for the changes of the mandaters, which we simply were so humanly undercapacitated, that we simply couldn't meet all the requirements in time. And that's where the situation takes place, of course, that neither the incomes based on the use of marine goods could be at the level at which they could really be. This is why my opinion is that it certainly needs to work in investing in people who will be trained for, in particular, maritime goods border procedures and certainly also transfer powers to local self-government units. In the city of Dubrovnik, for example, if the authorities were now transferred to the city of Dubrovnik, there would be total chaos because in the city of Dubrovnik between 200 and 300 employees of whom 90% of them were in love, there is no one who knows anything about the border of maritime goods. He doesn't know what's the limit of marine good or what's good for the sea. And if we were to pass such a law, power would be worse chaos than it is now that we have at least a few people working in the state. It's a huge potential on the marine good, there's a huge potential for its devastation, but certainly investment in human capacity is what's crucial.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10421	Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kolega Kristic, you can see in Croatia there is a paradox, on the one hand, of a particular political party in which I am involved and MOST advocates the abolition of counties, and on the other hand many solutions that come to the Croatian Parliament give new and new powers to the counties. And by the way, there is one provision that determines and defines that counties can spend on the salaries of their employees 20% of their original incomes. So, on the one hand, we give new powers to the county and this law, and I agree with you to implement this law, and other laws need to find new personnel and this means a new cost which is nevertheless limited by the provision of the law that 20% of the income of the unit of regional and local self-government can be used for the salaries of its employees. That's what I said, don't you agree? I said it would be good if, with the adoption of these amendments to the law, it was necessary to enable new financial resources not only for this law but also other laws have defined new powers for counties such as the Real Estate Assessment Act where the county is considered a central body to monitor the value assessment of real estate. It's another county job, and the county didn't get the funding. Therefore, I am for further empowerment of units of regional self-government especially county, but also for large cities I am. And that this decentralisation of the tasks of powers and the part-time work of the units of the regional self-government is accompanied by financial decentralisation, which is not less important, perhaps even more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10423	Thank you. The next club is HSP Ante Starcevic, the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10424	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, distinguished MPs and MPs. First, I'm going to look back with a few words about what's actually a maritime good. Maritime well-being is generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia. It has its special protection and is used or used under conditions and in a manner prescribed by law. The maritime good as a general good belongs to all people remunes omnium and in this sense the maritime good is inalienable, cannot be the object of acquiring ownership rights or other real rights, cannot be in traffic, cannot be traded. The legal matter of maritime goods is regulated by the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. In accordance with the Law on maritime good and seaports, marine waters and territorial seas, their bottom and underground, and a part of the land intended for general use by nature or declared as such, as well as anything partly permanently connected on or below the surface. Part of the land is considered shores, ports, dikes, splinters, cliffs, reefs, beaches, mouths of rivers that pour into the sea, canals connected to the sea and in the sea and sea underground living and inanimate natural resources. The Law on maritime good and seaports stipulates that the seashore extends from a line of medium, high, high sea waters and covers a land-bound belt which is bounded by the largest waves during the weather as well as that part of land which, by its nature or purpose, serves the use of sea for sea and sea fishing and for other purposes which are related to the use of the sea and which is at least 6 metres wide from the line that is horizontally far from the centre, higher, high waters and that line is determined by the Hydrographic Institute. The water component of the sea is good inland water and the territorial sea. The maritime code determines that the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia is 12 nautical miles wide, counting from the starting line towards the economic belt. So from the last point of land of the island, etc. and the external border of the territorial sea is the state border of the Republic of Croatia at sea. The sub-sea component, it's the seabed and the underworld. And as interpreted by the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, as the seabeds of the sea are also made up of inland waters and territorial seas, their bottoms and the underworld. All mining goods in the area of maritime goods are owned by the Republic of Croatia under the Mining Act. On 8 May 2016, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Croatian Government in the parliamentary procedure. The relevant law prescribes the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to grant concessions for the economic use of maritime goods in the field of specific reserves. The proposed amendments to the laws remove administrative barriers and decentralise the management of maritime goods in special reserves in such a way as to give jurisdiction to concessions in these reserves to units of regional self-government. This amendment of the law relieves the work of the state administration and reduces the administrative costs imposed when deciding the Government of the Republic of Croatia on concessions whose income is not significant and the procedure is carried out as for concessions of national importance. The provision of concession operations will be faster and more operational and as regards special reserves, i.e. those can be shell growing sites mentioned earlier whose development orientation should be carried out by regional self-government units. The proposed amendment shall decentralisation the management of maritime goods. The concession authority granted a concession for the economic use of maritime goods may give secondary activities of a smaller scope to legal and physical persons with the consent of the concession provider in order to improve the exploitation of maritime goods. Since these secondary activities only complete the offers in the concessioned area, there is no obstacle to the decision of the administrative department for maritime affairs in the regional self-government unit to be given consent. Special use of maritime goods is also considered to be a building on marine good. Buildings for the needs of religious communities, for the pursuit of activities in the field of culture, social care, education, science, information, sport, health and other activities that are not carried out in order to gain profits. Then other buildings and facilities and infrastructures are roads, railways, plumbing, sewerage, energy, telephone networks, buildings for the purposes of defence of internal affairs, river regulation, etc. The Government of the Republic of Croatia makes a good decision to build objects of national importance on the maritime side. For objects of county importance, the County Assembly and for localities, the City Council or the City Council. The HSP club as part of the Patriot coalition will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10425	Thank you. We have two replicas here. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10426	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Kirin, I thank you for this short introduction education on what is a maritime good and how concessions are awarded that we who are not from this area learn something about it. But here I have answered the line and above all to support this debate about the need to drop jobs from the government, or central state to regional self-government. And again, I would point out the problem that, with the downturn, this second part is often missing, and that is also financial decentralisation because there is a series of laws in which we say that the implementation of this law will not require additional budgetary resources. We lower our obligations to units of local and regional self-government and we don't provide funds to implement them, which brings us to a bad position here, specifically regional self-government. We know that there are limited numbers of people who deal with these jobs, that there should be new employment, of course, what we welcome but that there should also be additional funds for the same salaries and are limited by sublegal provisions that only 20% of their own income can be used to pay their own income. In this part, too, the existing legislative legislation should be harmonised when obligations are lowered to a lower level in order to ensure a source of income for the same. And we also wish that through this law, of course, the reduction of maritime good governance to regional self-government will allow for easier economic activity, and I think that these 70 legal entities that will appear to be concessions on maritime goods in these areas will be easier to communicate with regional self-government, but the flow of information will be faster, but it is important to ensure that the quality of the payment of the concession, to see who has been paying so far, who has not. Because our desire is to charge the maximum charge so that regional self-government from this work can finance their jobs and, of course, facilitate business and ports. You mentioned that ports are also good in the maritime sector, to see how they are charged with concessions, whether they pay and whether it makes it difficult for ports to operate on maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia, whether they are competitive in relation to ports in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10427	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10428	Dear MPs, as you have heard in the opening section, which is a maritime good and who has the right and what to do and what economic activities they have to do on the marine good. So everyone who uses marine well-being must also pay concessions. It's something that's been imported already and backwards only depends on what level and who's going to give, issue a concession and who's charging and on the sharing of financial effects we've heard from the government's representatives. Therefore, all those using maritime well-being must pay concessions and must, of course, have the consent to the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10429	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10430	Dear Vice President, I didn't mean to answer, but I have a few things to say. What I think is a great lack of is that here in this document there is no integrated mention of the Maritime Development Strategy that we brought here in 2014 until 2020. So Croatia is one of the countries with the largest sea surface relative to the land surface. 31 thousand square miles. So more than a third of our surface is the sea. And the question is, how do we control the sea? And what's in it for us? We witnessed 10, 12 years ago that we were competing because of the daily political opportunities here around the economic belt, so the compromise was an ecological fishing belt with no one asking what effects Croatia had precisely of these measures? What effects for the economy, what effects ultimately for the people living in this country? And what is crucial, we must seriously address the question of how to use the Croatian sea because it is more than a third of Croatian territory and it is a key question for me. And it's clear that transferring this responsibility to local self-government units could speed up certain economic activity but without feedbacks, without what we're going to see as a result in a year's time, we're not going to have anything again. Therefore, we need to see whether this measure will take some concrete result, whether this measure will have more people working on the sea's good, marine good. And we need to see how seriously we approach Croatia's sea to be fully used for the needs of people living in the Republic of Croatia. It's a key topic today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10431	The answer is Ivan Kirin, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10432	Mr Bernardic, thank you very much. There's a comment in place, and I accept it. But you probably remember, you're not young in politics, that we belong to that political option that advocated even more radical measures, which is the declaration of an economic belt. We haven't given it up yet, and if we do, then we'll be able to manage the sea better, more usefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10433	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the National Minorities Club, Honorary Representative Shandor Juhas. He's gone, he's losing his right. The next club is HNS, Liberal Democrats, the prominent representative of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, before us, the proposal, the amendments to the law that is relatively small and its scope is relatively small, refers specifically to reservations, i.e. the management of maritime goods in reserves. And we as a party, so HNS has something in particular that we don't mind seeing a particular problem, that the bill wants to fix something, but this whole story that wants to be shown here that it's some kind of big decentralisation, that I don't think it's really standing. It is an individual two places where this law will be able to be implemented, or where it will be implemented when adopted. And it's not quite clear to me that this country, as it has done so far, has not been able to continue to work until before this House, a new, whole Law on Marine Goodness, which we unfortunately have been waiting for for more than 10 years. One 4.5 variants were made, a dozen working groups, experts dealing with maritime well-being. However, we have failed to implement this law for all those 10 years. And I have to ask in front of all of us why we haven't been able to do it in so many years. The last government spent four years proposing a law. The law came somewhere just before the end of the term in parliament, failed, we simply went to elections, failed to even discuss bringing the law. During that period, colleagues from HDZ proposed the same thing in the past 4 years, the proposal for a new Maritime Good Law which, at the time, I was in the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure also had a very high agreement of all colleagues regardless of the policy options concerning the changes that are necessary. And that government, 8 years ago, also had a bill that had a very high, very high degree of consent as far as politics were concerned. However, we have never been able to implement that law. Now I'd like to say a few words as to why we need it, why it's urgent, necessary and urgent to bring it in as soon as possible. Because they're breaking huge interests, which is why we didn't bring them. There are huge interests being broken because it is one of the largest resources available to the Republic of Croatia, which is used partly at the moment, I would say minimally, which has a huge potential and where it is used is not used in the way that God knows how much he benefits. Now with this part being used, there are probably so many interests because it's the only possible answer to this question why we haven't passed that law all those years, regardless of the political options, I don't want to accuse anyone here in particular, but obviously these interests and these lobbyes who want to keep the status quo in the management of maritime well-being have managed never to bring and that the story goes the way it's going for years. I really hope we break that story as soon as possible because these laws are over. And that HDZ that the Maritime Ministry put in the process before the end of last term of government. So it's about 6 thousand km of coast, a vast area of land, coast and, of course, a vast area of the sea itself, which is not enough at the moment, not enough, but minimally actually used in a way that is under concessions, the whole series of problems on the ground, somewhere better managed by sea, somewhere worse, the practice is unfortunately different in Croatia from county to county. We have good examples, bad, mediocre but I'd say what it's all about is that, in fact, the management of maritime goods in the area of the Republic of Croatia is unequal. And what I would say on behalf of the CNS that I would no longer add anything except that I would like to open the debate here very quickly on the new law and that finally this huge resource that we have, this huge potential that we have to manage properly, that those we invite all the time to invest in Croatia, and I think that perhaps the most interest there is in this particular part means that it is investing in the maritime good, to ensure that these future investors are secure. In fact, we in the law now, we are constantly expecting some big millions and billions to invest in maritime well-being, but under the current law, I think that no one is crazy and silly enough to invest billions and that after that, according to this law that we have, they can come into a situation that actually leaves without the capital that he has invested in this maritime well-being and no one else, and that the state is then acting in a way that we can't degrade, there's going to be some new concessionist and nothing. So, such a crazy, crazy investor under this law, we're not going to get other than some con man who, unfortunately, is walking around us or who has invested us in the marine well and who has concentrated some places, we all know that, the state doesn't control them. Some of them work in concessions and do not do what they suggested in the concession or what they suggested, according to the economic proposal to manage these maritime goods, that they would work in the extent to which they would work. No one controls it, no one sanctions it, but it's just so left all the way down the water. So here's an appeal from the CNS, we're going to support this minor change even though it's not quite clear to us exactly what was going to be achieved, that this law is being completely amended and that we are finally benefiting from our sea and our coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10435	Thank you. We have six replicas. Michael Zmajlovic is the first to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10436	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Ms. Turina-Đuric, with most of your discussion, I agree, and even in the part in which you admitted to the promoter that the intention was to reduce administrative barriers in this particular section, I absolutely disagree with you or with the promoter. Because what you get in this proposal is exactly the main argument, and that's removing administrative barriers. Look out, we in Croatia have two special reservations at sea, two. And here we're saying that the main motivation of the motion is to reduce the administrative barriers, so is it such a burden? Another important thing, the motionary government of the Republic of Croatia says special reserves are not of national importance. So is the Nature Protection Act that defined protected areas of national importance, is this law not valid in this Croatia and for the Croatian Government. What was the Ministry of Environmental Protection doing, I wonder. In addition to a strict reservation, the national park and nature park are of national importance defined in the Nature Protection Act. That's number one. Number two. If we are talking about removing administrative barriers, then we have achieved nothing with this kind of partial solution because any procedure in a special reserve should carry out an assessment of the acceptability of the procedure on the ecological lobe and certain situations and the environmental impact assessment procedure carried out again by who, the Ministry, the state level. So, you haven't removed any administrative barriers here, but you're actually asking what's the real reason, so the administrative barriers aren't being removed, the costs are not being reduced, they're not going to be resolved any faster because there are still procedures that are going to be conducted at the state level and what's the real reason that in the only two special reservations available to the maritime well-being we put on the county or regional level. I call upon all the public, to ask ourselves what are the real reasons because we haven't solved anything here, and I think that this is actually a misunderstanding and inconsistency of government and non-coordinated ministries we have a bad proposal on the benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10437	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10438	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Đuric. I'd look back on one thing. How much interest in this concession does our Croatian people have? How much money we're going to invest here and what's in the best interest of it. I'm a little surprised that in this House, and as far as I can tell, those of you who have been in politics are always talking about laws, and there's always something going on and on and on and on and on. From what I've heard, my colleague Bačić, the border is about six thousand miles away, so far we've only established a thousand. So it'll take us another 100 years to determine these other five grand. Is this the law that brings about something to make a concession, whether some people who are in some regional environments get some places like arrests, I would just like to know what the interest of the Croatian people is and certainly if this law is all about the interests of the people and that the state is doing something, I will accept it, but this all reminds me, it reminds me of just one story that could be discussed and everyone else and we are going back to the place and eventually it will all be the way it was, but we will have God's thanks to what we do and we haven't moved anywhere as far as I can see and these 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10439	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10440	Thank you very much. You've been asking some questions that I've been asking myself during my debate. But I'm only going to look back on the part you pointed out, which is that it's going to take us a hundred years to determine all the limits of the maritime good. Well, it was also one of the topics of whether we must establish the limits of maritime goods in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, i.e. along the entire coast, i.e. on all those 6000. We don't have to. We need to establish boundaries where there is an interest in the use of maritime good, and it is evident from spatial plans and cities and municipalities and counties or should be seen in which area there is an interest and local self-government or regional self-government that is along the coast where it wants to use it. So we must establish the limits on the part where there is economic interest. And I think it's a job that regional self-government in cooperation with the competent ministry can work out relatively quickly to start concessioning maritime goods and use it economically. So, I don't see any major obstacles here, but I see obstacles to the whole law being passed. And not only do we pass this whole law, but we also pass all other laws, so let's say the Construction Act, which specifically applies to the maritime well, is also harmonised in a way that simplifies the investment and construction procedures in the maritime good. That's what we have to do. I'm saying, I'm afraid that some of the interests that are above this, I'd say above political even prevent that law from changing that way, in the direction of what the whole policy really wanted both left and right. I wouldn't be here except in some detail we differed about this new law, so I think that's the only story we need to break. I hope that very soon we let go of who and when, but very soon this law will see The new law to see the light of day. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10441	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10442	Dear MPs, I agree with you that such changes to the laws that should be of some kind of cosmetic nature are brought like this over the knee and that, as soon as possible, the full Law on Maritime Good and Seaports should be put into the procedure. I'll even say that this first part of the changes that apply to special reservations aren't so important in this story. I think that this change is of a functional nature and that the concession procedure will be much simpler as it is arranged, the maritime authorities are located near the units of local self-government and the areas in which the reserves are located. And these people, the concession authorities will be able to get all the necessary information in a much faster and simpler way than the government does. The second part of the transfer of part of the concessions is much more controversial. There is an enormous safe space for manipulation which is contrary to the principles of public procurement and the principles of the Law on concessions, because we actually without a competition, the concession authority can transfer part of the concession to someone who can today start a company and already get part of the maritime goods area to use and we do not know what activities are that are secondary, nowhere is it prescribed and it should certainly be prescribed. And that someone will certainly not pay anything to the state, and the concession officer will pay much less than he would pay to carry out that activity. And to me, that's what's controversial. This part of the special reservation for me was not supposed to rush into it either, as the government had already extended those concessions to a certain period, so that, of course, the law should have been changed in full. We will support, but certainly with these corrections, to determine what the secondary activities are and what the secondary activities are and that the person to whom the part of the concession is transferred is certainly paying one part of his fee, part of his income from the economic activity of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10443	Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterparts Turina-Đuric, you say that individual interest groups prevent the law from being passed. While I was in the ministry, we changed the Marine Good Act four times. Some of these changes were formal and some structural. And I have to say that there are some special interest groups that would not prevent the law from being passed because there are two basic settings on which a new law should be laid down. The first is the basic setting of who will manage maritime well-being? Will the state or the district self-government? That's the first question that needs to be solved by the new law. The second is the fact that, firstly, the State Attorney's Office should determine how and in what way to treat natural and legal persons who have acquired certain rights for maritime good, not only in the last 25 years, but in all those natural and legal persons who have acquired certain rights. Some of them think that ownership rights have also been acquired, so on the marine side, which is impossible, but they also hold that they have acquired ownership rights. And there is a fundamental question of how the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is being asked. If the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia gave a clear view of how and in what way to continue to manage maritime goods in the area where certain natural or legal persons are entitled to certain rights, believe that this law would be passed very quickly and there would be no such interest groups that could prevent the adoption of the Law on the Sea Good. And you said yourself, a few versions of maritime goods have already come to this House. The only thing that could not be precisely defined is the relationship to the acquired rights of individual natural and legal persons, and there is the greatest responsibility of the State's attorney to make it so. I think the government has a pretty clear view of how and how to solve the dueiosis on maritime goods related to property-legal relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10445	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10446	So here we were sitting together in the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure in the last term, and on several occasions we discussed a new law, and we all agreed that it should be adopted as soon as possible. I'm just the one who put a little bit of a mirage in there. We all wanted to, but in the end we didn't bring it, neither did the former HDZ government nor did we bring it. I didn't say anything about why, or who exactly I'm aiming at why it wasn't, but you've mentioned it now. So, the State's Attorney's Office certainly is a place that should give answers to some questions and some of the concerns about these acquired rights that you've been talking about. So, these problems are already in the law enforcement of the county when it comes to concessioning maritime well-being. The state would absolutely or government, the government should absolutely stand behind what should be determined, or what it said. by the State's Attorney's Office. And I think, on that point, we might be able to pass the law relatively quickly. Of course, management has always been a challenge. Whether to centralize it, to decentralize it. However, over time, I think it has proved, and even in practice, I said that there are good practices, that better and better quality management of maritime well-being when it is decentralised and when local or regional self-governments participate in this management.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10447	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10448	Dear MPs, so here you have been deputy mayor and now you are the mayor of the municipality, the mayor of the city, I apologize and correct, you know very well how it is equipped with maritime well-being, how it is mastered and I think the Primorje-Gorski County is one of the better examples in Croatia. For example, your Shipyard in the Queen who fell apart, you managed to raise something with private investments. And you certainly have great experience in that. But what's crucial is that today we wonder if we're good at sea? Today we are talking about a third of Croatian territory, a third! There's no minister here today. I'm not talking about maybe a man has no other obligation and it's nothing personal but when we talk about what we're going to do with a third of Croatian territory then we still have to raise that debate to one level of seriousness. We don't know what to do with the sea, unfortunately we don't know what to do with land. And it reminds me, it's not a problem in this debate or in all of this whether units of local self-government will decide faster and better than the government did, the problem is if you don't have markets. Because if you don't know what you're going to do, and you obviously don't know it because there's not a single word to say about the Marine Development Strategy, then it doesn't matter to you. It's like you've got an eight-to-four kiosk and no one comes to that kiosk and then you decide now we're gonna step up the activity and we're finally gonna sell something, we're gonna keep working time and we're gonna work from eight to 20. Then no one will come. It is simply essential to discuss how to use the best Croatian sea. The SDP proposed a full law, didn't pass the Parliament, didn't come. HDZ has proposed in the last 10, 12 years he hasn't come either. Guys, we need to figure out what we're going to do with the Croatian sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10449	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10450	Yes, my colleague Bernardić, this ministry that is the promoter, is called the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and we are all very proud of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Coastal Affairs. But unfortunately back 10 years from that ministry, we have failed to implement the laws that will put this huge resource into full function of the Republic of Croatia. Not maybe 100% because it's hard anything that can be used 100% but to put into a better function to make that potential exploitable. At the same time, the same ministry called it the Ministry of the Sea, the sky and the earth, and it is, in part, true. So, through this ministry and especially through this section relating to the sea is the ministry of all ministries if we want to push the Republic of Croatia 2, 3 or more steps forward. Therefore, it is good to discuss this way, to support those who should implement this law and suggest that we finally make real progress. And of course there are good examples of how it is available for maritime good. I thank you for the commendation that comes in connection with the Primorje-Gorski County which first self-initiated management of maritime goods in such a way as to establish port administrations in several units of local self-government or in some units of local self-government specific to its area. Of course, the city of Rijeka is beyond that, but I think in the new law, of course, it should be said that great cities also have a maritime good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10451	Thank you. Last line, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10452	Thank you very much. My colleagues would agree entirely with your exposure, of course, as well as my colleagues who had previously said that the seashore, maritime well-being is one great resource and potential we can look at through more aspects, however, should be managed by this maritime good. Here you have mentioned changes and on the board there has been a discussion of a new law to protect this area, of course to enable investment and a better award of concessions to be fairer, simpler, not to be eligible as of course so far. Although there are the most important instruments of control, instruments of control if we have a dead letter on paper, law, so if we change it, if we don't have a control system, if anyone can please and it certainly suits anyone in any way or politically, or any other way, or interestingly, and all that interest is right away is not good. Because immediately investment is stopped, competitiveness is dropping, investment is less and so far is a fundamental problem. It is also very important to protect these areas. ecological areas that need to be protected, it is also mentioned in this debate and through replicas, to protect these areas, to preserve them, yet it is very important to develop a tourism branch that certain areas are strictly protected in the ecological sense as well as the sea itself. We must not allow the benign drilling of the Adriatic, well tested and many other things. Because our coasts certainly won't be worth that much and they won't be so interesting to investors if it's not preserved environmentally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10453	Here is the word from the proposal's representative, Deputy Minister Miro Skrgatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here we have listened carefully to this debate of boredom, and I thank you for your participation in all those who were intrigued by this topic. Given that some things have been said here that are directly related to both the ministries and the activities and, of course, these points of the agenda, I would just like to say a few ways to help all of us think and to announce certain activities that we will still do. This is an existing law where we've really intervened in a partial way, and that's clear for all of us here. As far as the new law is concerned, we've prepared a new text of the law, so the draft is over. He will now go into procedure and, of course, all the stakeholders who are interested and the entities related to this new text of the law will be much. In some optimistic scenario, I believe that it is possible, at the earliest time in the 10th month, to come with a bill in regular procedure, and at the latest by the end of the year. So here's the thing, please, let's respect that fact. So we've been working on two colossals, one is to intervene on a partial basis. And here I would disagree that this is just an attempt to, in some minimum extent, arbitration in a way that reduces administrative barriers. First of all, this is about getting close to people on the ground through decentralisation, who will be in a position through regional administration that not every little bit goes to Zagreb. So I believe that when we talk about these people living in this area in Little Stone, first of all, it's not easy and it's not cheap to come to Zagreb and sign a contract, sign annexes, etc. So we're going to cut these people's costs and I think that's significant first of all for them. Also, as regards the possibility of manipulation, I absolutely reject any possibility that by changing this text we create assumptions that someone in a segment might manipulate. So we didn't even create this technical change the assumption that someone could manipulate. First of all, the concession is a matter of both the mathematical model and the assignment of such an activity. As regards the parallel activities and services that we have here and mentioned some respected representatives, secondary services are defined as well as concessions. So there's no way anyone can change their mind and say I'm going to be doing business B instead of work A. So there's still protection mechanisms and there's no room for any special manipulations. As for this mention and maritime goods, 6 thousand kilometers I'm going to give you now and the exact information is now about exactly 1,300 kilometers long, meaning a well-defined and fully defined maritime goods, which makes up about 25% of the total space. Therefore, this part is also monitored through the operation of port captains, and therefore there is no possibility of any impact of the negatives that would derivate this whole issue and especially not related to these changes and additions. As far as the deadline for the new law is concerned, I have made it clear to you, here and I continue to clarify the additional elements of this issue through our questions and answers. Here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10455	Thank you. He had one replica of the distinguished representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10456	Your Honor, Mr. Proposer, I agree with you and thank you for your clarification. When I was talking about the possibility of manipulation, I was talking about the fact that this is still an economic activity on the maritime good, and that we have a situation where one part of that activity, I don't know which of these are side-by-side, I didn't see the regulation that they're defined, they're being passed on to someone else. Therefore, someone else will carry out one part of the economic activity and will generate revenue from this activity in that concentrated area. This will no longer be done by the concession officer who is obliged to pay a permanent and variable concession fee which is the revenue of the state budget, the budget of the county and the budget of the units of local self-government. Therefore, we cannot say that there will be no manipulation of income in the concessioned area when that someone who is the new authority of the maritime concession act will not be in the concession register, will not be registered as some authority holder in that area and will not pay the state anything, will pay whoever is the beneficiary of the concession. That's what I was talking about when I was just talking about the room for manipulation. And I believe that's for sure. And as far as decentralisation of powers is concerned, it is certainly good, of course, for all concession authorities in the Bay of Maloston and for Little More, the costs will be significantly lower. I do not agree with some MPs when they say that decentralisation is necessary and financial decentralisation, but it is absolutely necessary to employ professional and quality personnel because instead of 100 bites 50 quality people can do a lot more work and there will be no such problems. And then 20% of those 50 people won't be any problem to local self-government units or regional self-government when they stop unnecessarily humanizing themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10457	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the SDSS Club, Reformists, the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10458	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going with just a few sentences to look back on this proposal to amend the Law on the Sea Good because we have a few dilemmas. Absolutely when we have heard now and this additional explanation, we can accept the proposal that the need to make these changes is some degree of decentralisation of these transactions or decentralisation of concessions over special reserves. Practically on two, only two facilities and these are two special reservations. Whether it will be some final savings, whether it will reduce administrative barriers to concession users, whether the administrative apparatus will be reduced, will show time. We also see that colleagues who in the previous term had very significant positions in this area claim that this will not happen. So reading from these few articles of these changes, I can't tell if that's the basic benefit of what's going to be done. The main thing here is in Article 3(3), which states that the regional and regional self-government unit is to enter into the legal position of the concession provider and assume all the rights and obligations of the concession provider and assume their rights and obligations on the day of receipt of the concession agreement and the documentation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. So the whole legal procedure, the whole legal work that's not at all simple because the concessions are a complex legal mechanism we've reduced to this one provision. And now we have to kind of bring it back to life. What we're having a dilemma, the first dilemma about why he's in a hurry here with an emergency procedure, we don't see any reason why this thing is going through an emergency procedure. Or you'll convince us there are some reasons. I haven't heard that there are reasons that it goes exactly like that. The truth is, this is a selective approach to solving problems. The truth is yes, it is also true that in this way two protected buildings of Maloston Bay and the Little Sea will be brought down from the level of interest of the state and the importance of protected parks to some local level. Whether we want it or not, this way we'll send a message that the state's interest level is going down to the county level. It is also to discuss the fact that you here other than changing the concession, so whoever gives concessions is also the fact of the disputed activities in the field of services. So here one can manipulate that one who has received a concession will be able to give that concession to someone to carry out secondary activities in the field of services. And that's exactly what's causing it, as far as I'm concerned, with some colleagues. Whether it will be so, whether there will be abuses I don't know and that practice will show. However, the fact that it is necessary to warn that the Law on concessions defines secondary activity as an activity which is not the activity of the concession subject matter but is linked to it by serving it or necessary for its successful implementation. And that's then, that's the definition of secondary activities. We believe that this proposed solution, although it is intended to simplify the process of relation with the provision of parallel activities to legal and physical persons by the concession authorities, we believe that such a solution does not refer to the proposal of the Law on concessions. And that's the thing that the proposer needs to tell us about. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on the Sea Good is inextricably tied to the concept of parallel activities. In this way, since the beneficiary of the concession in the process of granting consent to carry out parallel activities with the body carrying out the previous concession procedure is hereby resuscitated. So here on one side we have a positive intensity, which is to decentralise and facilitate users' access to certain data related to their concession on these two protected facilities. And on the other hand, we have something that we haven't formally regulated until the end, which is the substitution of the Law on concessions and the fact that in this way the state is suspended as a donor, to suspend the state as a concessioner. Why do I say that? Because we think that in some way we should leave a certain level of state control in this concession. I'll just remind you, we had an example when we were completely, when we transferred the competences to make agricultural land available in the process of the agricultural land distribution programme to local self-government units. Finally, it turned out that in such a process of making agricultural land available without state control, without additional control of the state, it was quite badly completed jobs so as not to qualify them differently. Therefore, the view of our club is that, despite this model of concessions, especially the sub-concession for service activities of the state should in some way be controlled. We think that if this is going to be the level of the county that will be the concessions here should, for example, be delivered to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure within a period of 15 or 30 days, deliver such contracts to grant consent. Then we'll avoid the fact of the feeling that we've brought down these two protected special reserves from the level of interest of the state and brought it down exclusively to the local level. We also think that we should think about extending the powers of incidents to cities because while cities do not manage their maritime good, they cannot manage their development policy, because in any case this should be one of the future debates because the fact is that this selective approach will not be a quality way of regulating the space, so the subject is too important for the use of maritime goods. I will just remind myself that at its 79th session in 2013 the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion that the authorities of the state administration, among other things, are in charge of the resolution of the maritime ministry, to access the draft law and amendments to the laws governing concessions in order to bring them in line with the new Law on concessions. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened, and today we have this job that we have to do, so we're individualizing certain segments of this kind of serious activity, although we think the most qualitative solution would be to pass a law, a whole law. The profession has given its very serious opinion here. I have here in front of me a series of remarks which the profession has said what attention should be paid to in the new legal solution. I believe that, such a quality debate that the ministry has announced through public debate, will spark the best solution for managing this good and will solve those things that we have failed to resolve in the past 15 or more years. They relate above all to the types of concession, on request, to the conditions of granting such concessions, to the claim of compensation, to the amount of compensation that the State needs to settle and did not arrange, to the very nature of the decentralisation of maritime goods. The law should pay particular attention to us and to the nature of the behaviour of municipalities, cities and counties that must have a clear legal responsibility and responsibility relating to the system of maintaining the protection of maritime goods as a public good because it faces the process that some units of local self-government that should take care of maritime goods and provide them with special protection sometimes fail to comply with the legal regulations themselves and even maritime good in certain cases and devastate the accumulation, disposal of construction material, concreteisation, etc., etc. Let's not spread this topic now. If it will be like you said that the law will be in some debate by the end of the year or even in front of us here in the Assembly as the final text I am pleased with your answer and that gives us some strong reason to accept then and this attempt to resolve only concessions on these two protected goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10459	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honourable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10460	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, you said you weren't really into an emergency procedure but you got a concession which is most important, that it must be a quick procedure, a simple procedure and he didn't, and then it's necessary to change it if it isn't. But I agree that it is necessary to change completely but urgently not just concessions. Isn't it a sad fact that 80% of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia have not been established? Why not? There's a legal framework. If there is a methodology for establishing the limit of maritime goods, then the problem is that it is not found in 100% obvious that somewhere, so where the problem is let's change the emergency law to remove these problems. Of course, if the ministry doesn't have the capacity to approve all the county's proposals, one man can't do it. Or let's change the law that it's not in the ministry's jurisdiction, that it's the county's jurisdiction or that we can capitulate the ministry, it can't be the ministry's bottleneck and it can't be. But it's been a tight throat for years, ten years, and we've been watching it. Well, we need to change that urgently. Just imagine how many building permits are waiting because they cannot be issued because there is no limit to maritime goods. So we ourselves produce damage daily with this kind of treatment. Well, there's something we need to change, or 20 people only hire at the Ministry or the Ministry to get rid of that job and transfer it to the county. Let the experts determine that, but make it an emergency. But it must not be that there is no limit to maritime goods within one metre of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10461	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10462	Thank you, dear colleague Maric. You just responded to your replica. So, why don't you do this urgently? Because we haven't done the whole thing urgently for 20 years, neither this government nor the previous government has adopted a quality integrated legal text that will solve all these problems as needs to be solved. And now we're wondering why this particular segment needs to be dealt with urgently, meaning giving concessions and over certain, to two localities protected and given the opportunity to urgently go into sublets... for some service activities. I may have the wrong perception of it, but there remains some impression that something urgent must be done precisely because of these secondary activities, not because of the essence of the protection of this protected space.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10463	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you say you're amazed at what you find unacceptable that this law is being discussed by an emergency procedure. In fact, I am also inclined to discuss the laws in two readings in a regular procedure, but this is really about a small, symbolic change. A colleague, Bernardic, says, and resents the minister for not having him here today because we are discussing a third of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we are discussing this law on 0.1% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Bay of Maloston and Lim Bay are 60 square kilometers. So it's 0.1%, which doesn't mean the minister couldn't have been there either. But not all of this, this is not a third of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And another thing, you don't have to worry. Namely, when the Government puts down powers to the county by this law, that the county defines concessions in one part of the maritime good precisely in the Bay of Maloston and Lim Bay still the state remains in a certain way a tutor over this procedure because, by appeal, it is the individual concession authority or someone who has not received the concession in that procedure, and it is true that the county did not give him the right to have it available in that space in the second degree to solve the ministry. Therefore, the Government has also given the Parliament or legislator and will give, I hope by this law powers to the county, but thus still the Government, the Resorship Ministry, in the case of the illegal conduct of a single county assembly, it still has a final word in a certain way when it comes to concessioning maritime goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10465	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10466	Oh, this is key. I think what my colleague Bacic is, you actually said. So watch where the barriers are? They're not administrative barriers, they're in the head. The sea is a third of Croatia, a third of Croatian territory, and now we are discussing whether this law regulates 0.1% and this. We're talking about the sea here today. How to stimulate economic activity, how to make Croatia benefit more from the sea than it has and that is crucial. For the past 10 years, we have not passed any government in Croatia systematic amendments to the law. But even now, what is announced by a colleague you have well noticed, colleague Horvat, that law itself will not solve anything. It is only an assumption and the opening of an opportunity to try something to do, to exploit the potential of maritime goods, i.e. the Croatian sea, which is more than a third of Croatian territory. That can't be solved by law alone. The only way this can be solved is by a systematic approach, not by a fragmented approach. And that means we're going to concentrate on the effects we're going to have, that we're going to focus on what we have to do on our seas, that we're going to concentrate on how we get to the market, not on the market coming to us. Because if we wait for the market to come to us, then it will definitely not be too much use for Croatian citizens, which is one of our main things in this home. And that is what is crucial to do in order to make the maritime good, so that the Croatian sea can simply be put into operation. And that's why, well, that's why I said he should be a minister. Well, I mean, it's not a personal matter or a personal calling, but the minister when discussing the sea, the Croatian sea, which is a third of Croatian territory, would be nice if he were here. It would be really nice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10467	Thank you. The next individual debate is the last respected representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10468	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague of the Deputy Minister, assistant, dear colleagues. In my view, it's a difficult way of making changes to this law by emergency procedure on one as a technical change without looking at the essence of the change and it can be the impression that we need to coordinate something quickly, so make it a trick to do something without doing anything. The maritime good shall be used on the basis of the purpose set out in the spatial plans. The spacious plans of the Republic of Croatia are not well-designed. We keep complaining that they weren't done well. Another issue in the way of adoption is that no debate with the interested public has been held. The state's argument leaves income to the local self-government unit, but does not give it funds for a bigger job that will have to work. So, he'll be left with the funds. However, whether these funds are sufficient to be able to control the implementation of the concessions themselves and the environmental protection process and any possible side effects that may occur in that concentrated area. The harmful elements in the law, the consequences of the bioflora, the marine flora in a special nature reserve, were not consulted, no consultation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection was made in the adoption of this law. So we should have the opinion of the Ministry of Environmental Protection as much as, what amount of these concessions. We know that in this small sea and Maloston bay you have 73 concessionaries with 214 concessions. Now, how much of this amount of concessions will affect the protection of nature, i.e. the environmental impact assessment, is not designed and protected by the Nature Protection Act. So, with one quick change to two single nature reserves, a protected nature reserve and one technical change, it's like to edit concessions that are not arranged throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia at the Institute of Maritime Goods. That's controversial. We have a coast, already a colleague, Kirin, as if he was reading Wikipedia, said that we have 6300 km, that it's been arranged 1,000 km, so these 80% of the territories of the Institute of Marine Good are not arranged. It could be concluded from the debate that many things in this 2003 Maritime Good Act were not agreed, and in 2012 a new Law on concessions was adopted where the Republic of Croatia complied with concessions in the EU, so the debate today shows that we urgently need a new Law on Maritime Goods and not the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Goods. But I see from the debate that the assistant minister agreed, assistant and deputy minister, that they agreed. The economic use of the sea and maritime part of Croatia is limited by this maritime goods institute, which is defined by current legislation. Legislative provisions are inconsistencies and do not allow proper application in practice. The management of maritime goods is possible only through a concession regime that did not live in the Republic of Croatia and does not leave enough space for the efficient and pro-pulsive development of the maritime part of Croatia that is protected by the maritime goods institute. The Republic of Croatia needs to launch the integrated management process of maritime goods in order to preserve, coordinate and preserve the natural resources of maritime goods and ensure and enable sustainable economic development on maritime good, while ensuring maximum economic gain. We make a profit of 10, 11 million kuna at these 6300 kilometers. So all units or states get 11 million kunas per 6300 km. It's very, very small. Thus, the Republic of Croatia needs to establish a clear and transparent decentralised concession system on maritime good as well as a model for the evaluation of maritime goods and determinations and concession fees in order to strengthen and legal certainty of concessionaires. But Croatia needs to determine first the limits of maritime goods. So we have to define them in order to manage this maritime good. Because we know that, let's say, the exorcism process when we define what the borders of the maritime good are for the expropriation and recording of that maritime good as a general good in land books is a long-term process. We should set ourselves up in this new law, which is our short-term goals, which are long-term. How are we going to preserve the Institute of Maritime Goods so that this is a common good, that everyone can approach that good. But on the other hand, we have some material benefit from this maritime good. I think we call this one such a technical solution is like a thorn in a shoe that tells us there's a much bigger problem that we need to do, which is to make a new Law on the Sea Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10469	Thank you. Two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10470	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Penic, you mentioned a few things in your presentation. The first thing is to look at the date of the basic Law on Maritime Good, so in 2003. And it's a four-year-old law that experiences the same story every time. In the first year of one term, everyone says a new law should be done. In the second year, a commission is made that works by law. In the third year, everyone agrees that the law is not very good. And then the fourth year comes and we have nothing out of the law. And we can agree that we should have a Law on Maritime Goods because maritime good is a great value for Croatia, but in order to have a law, we need to know what we want with it. How we want to manage it and what we want from that potential. However, my replica primarily refers to a sentence where you spoke of spatial plans. The spatial planning is in charge of local self-government units. The constitutional category is that units of local self-government can plan their own space. Therefore, what is defined by spatial plans and the way in which it is defined primarily refers to counties, municipalities and cities. However, when it comes to maritime good, there is also an interest that is also a central state. And that's the way it's supposed to be. And integrated management of maritime well-being, so the Mediterranean country has different ways of defining it. They have some who have left it to the local level but have some countries that have a body that manages maritime well-being. But what really is we need to know what we want with maritime good, because when we know, then we can make laws and define it the way it is. And spatial plans have been made as they are. Croatia really has all its 556 municipalities and cities and they have come up with spatial plans. But spatial plans often don't match some individuals, so then we like to say they're gone. He's got them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10471	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10472	Thank you. You spoke about the need to adopt a new system of management of maritime goods, so de facto of the new law and I fully agree with you. The law must go in one direction only, and this is the disenfranchisement of the county and the empowerment of cities and municipalities in the management of maritime goods. It's that change that makes sense. Otherwise, in 2008, the government prepared a proposal that went in this direction, but local elections came in 2009 and were not exactly the results of then ruling in cities and municipalities as expected and then gave up the proposal. We didn't exactly break up after we came to power to change that. But either I need to do it, because it's still ringing in my ears, and it keeps reminding me of the word of a mayor from my county who named the county at his town port as an occupier. That's what he says in public. The vice president probably won't agree, but it doesn't matter. Therefore, this is the direction in which we should go, so that the mayors and the city authorities are not just viewers on their shores, in their town and in their municipality how the county manages it, but that the county is actually a rock in their shoes and those in the county, right? Let me put it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10473	The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10474	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bauk, units of local self-government are making spatial plans and it would be okay for them to decide as well. But now we need to evaluate what the state's interest is and what the county's interest is and what the city's interest is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10475	Final review of the deputy minister's proposal, Mr Mira Skrgatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10476	... I would like to thank the representatives for this constructive debate that has been followed. [[Specially enabled.]] Here's just maybe four or five shorter... let me get this straight. As far as the intelligence is concerned, so far the Government of the Republic of Croatia has had jurisdiction over this matter. It still has absolutely above all when we look at the elements of this intelligence, it is both administrative and legal and technical, so if you want this protection mechanism as well. So what we've just done now, we've done a transfer in the administrative sense that part of the activity is done at the county level. These other attributes, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia otherwise has, remain. Protection remains, so no one can question the protection of these areas, meaning quality, level of protection, etc. As far as these data are concerned, the length means a belt, out of these 6 thousand kilometers of 1300 kilometers, it is 25%, but it should be made clear that almost 90% of the economic activity is consumed in these 25%. So it's good to see what proportions these are. By increasing and defining a larger area of maritime goods, economic activity would not significantly increase. As far as secondary activities are concerned, I would just like to say that two examples, if you have a beach that is under concession on it is fully defined which content, in which extent, in which the area will be consumed and someone who comes on a daily basis to sell do not know the cakes on that beach he is treated as a secondary activity and is not crucial in this process. Also in the marinas you have as a secondary activity I do not know, for example, how to service and patch sails on ships. This is a secondary activity. So it is occasional, it does not affect the quality, scope and content of what is the issue of the concession sub-concession which remains therefore severe in central government's authority and the Government of the Republic of Croatia can independently locate it on this level of county any concession and somehow re-incentive it in its jurisdiction to go into the discussion of competitions. Here's what I wanted to add as well as revenue, someone mentioned revenues, revenues are at an annual level of about 150 million kuna. So the revenues are not negligible in that segment and they are shared in those parities as envisaged. A third goes to the locals, a third goes to the regional administration and a third goes to the state budget. Here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10477	Thank you very much. We're closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10478	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the Committee. Dear Miro Skrgetić, Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10479	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the motioner accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10480	The amendment thus becomes an integral part of the bill. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The final draft of the law has a feedback on the same obvious legislative committee and has assessed that there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return to action. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return to action of certain provisions. In accordance with the assessment of the parliamentary working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is estimated that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the feedback of Article 4. Final proposal for a law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Please, let's vote on it. Who's in? What's the score? 87 for, 3 abstentions, 44 against. I find that most votes have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10483	I suggest that the following points, 3rd, 4th and 5th we go into a united debate, if that's okay with you? Who's in? Does anyone actually mind? There isn't. These are the laws: - Final Proposal Act on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.57; - Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of General Rules of the World Postal Union, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.58 and - Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of postal payment services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.No.59. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Due to the size of the material of the annexes to the bill, it is not multiplied but is written in writing in a representative information centre. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want an additional explanation? Dear Deputy Minister Miro Skrgatic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a bill to confirm the acts of the World Postal Union. It's a package of three legal acts that, in their formal sense, come here today for ratification. So these are the documents of the World Postal Union. We have been a member of the Postal Union since 1992 and I will remind the Union is founded in 1874. So one respected, international organisation that has its own protocols, which has its own way of functioning and which manages all the key processes that are related to postal activity throughout all these 190 Member States that have joined all protocols. The first text you have in front of you valorises the Postal Convention with the final protocol, so that through this Postage Convention and through the World Postal Union protocol, it wanted to define additional rules and procedures of conduct throughout this entire segment of activity. What is most important of this convention is particularly based on and addresses the following questions are questions about the meaning of personal data, the availability of personal data, which, of course, must be interesting for us in our segment, then a series of security issues. It's also a very important segment for vulnerable groups, first of all here I think of blind people. The technical part, then, means the form of manipulation of postal shipments, the sorting of shipments on the basis of their format, the provisions governing electronic postal services, which is particularly interesting these last few years because certain services are also done through electronic data changes. The same responsibility for shipments, their payment method, invoices in international exchange and of course the freedom of transit. Payment of postage, exemptions from payment of postage, postage stamps, postage security in general and a list of all the basic services that make up this activity are the subject and measure of this first material. The following material is the Proposal for a Law on Confirming the General Rules of the World Postal Union with the final draft of the law and the general rules of the World Postal Union are particularly governing the following issues, and these are issues related to the organisation, role and work of conventions held every 4 years and at conventions to make concrete conclusions and decisions that need to be ratified then in the Member States and then, of course, to implement them. So with this organization, the role, the work of the congress that I mentioned, the board of directors and all the councils for postal operations, the work of the international office and the selection of the powers of the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General for the International Office, the establishment of the secretariat and all those operational bodies that have been resolved today, I will not say by the statute but by the constitution of the Union. The arbitration procedure between Member States and within Member States, the use of language within the Union, therefore, is a whole series of operational details relating to the functioning and functioning of the Union and, of course, the entry into force and functioning of the general rules. In relation to the previously applicable general rules of the World Postal Union, the new or amended provisions on observers on the work of the Union body, the individual competences of the Governing Council, as well as the Council for Postal Operations are new. Since these general rules contain provisions ensuring the application of the Constitution of the World Postal Union and its harmonised work, legitimate interest and the Republic of Croatia to actively engage in the application and acceptance of the general rules of the World Postal Union. As regards the third material, it valorises the postal payment services agreement with the final bill. In this text it is very important to say that in postal services payment ensures the provision of a secure and accessible postal service and the whole means a series of rules that define payment security and means rigorous monitoring has been raised to a higher level. And the agreement is to edit the postal service, in particular the postal instruction, the payment order and other orders that valorise mail transfer, the international buy-in manual, means that part is very important to us in the coming months, and that each Member State of the Union must provide at least one of these postal payment services in its area, which is not disputed. Of course, the Member States of the Union must ensure the continuity of postal payment services in the event of failure to fulfil contractual obligations by their designated operators. The agreement also addresses the quality issues of postal services, means the quality of payment, the principle of secrecy and the protection of personal data as already mentioned today in this introduction. As regards the previously applicable Postage Payment Services Agreement, which was adopted at the previous World Postal Congress in 2008, the new or amended provisions on the buy-in manual are new, i.e. this COD format and the emergency manual as well as the secrecy and use of personal data, which was particularly highlighted in the latest World Postage Convention. In the light of all the proposed materials and within the meaning of Article 140(1), The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of a postal service agreement in order for the provisions of this international contract to enter into force and become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This last convention, I must point out, was held in Doha in Qatar in 2012. It may be important to say that the Post Office, which also has its own rules and methods of operation, took about a year for all these documents to be prepared, classified and delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so that some kind of... which we can possibly talk about is from 2013 to today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when the question is why is it urgent, I think we already have a certain delay. And it would be good for this material to experience ratification in this form in the Croatian Parliament, of course, which will be a clear signal to all those entities in the Republic of Croatia who are engaged in this activity so that they can adopt new rules on work in all segments that are coming from the World Postal Union. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10485	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. The debate came on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10486	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. As we have heard about the three laws united, the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of General Rules of the World Postal Union with the Final Proposal for a Law and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement with the Final Proposal of the Law. To say right away at the beginning, the HDZ Club will support all three bill proposals. The World Postal Union was founded in 1874 and today numbers 192 Member States. Since 1948, the World Postal Union has been a specialised UN-based institution in Bern. Since 1992, the Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the Union when the Director-General of the International Union Office laid down its right to join the Union and the fundamental acts of the Union. This international organisation is a central forum for the cooperation of all postal sector stakeholders with the role of consulting, intermediating and connecting and providing technical assistance as well as with the task of laying down rules for international postal exchange and making recommendations to promote the development of postal transport and improve the quality of postal services. The basic acts of the World Postal Union as well as their amendments and additions are adopted at the World Postal Congress, which represents the Supreme Body of the Union and which brings together authorities, representatives of all Member States every 4 years. The last convention held in Doha in 2012 adopted the following Union acts, the World Postal Convention with the conclusion of the Protocol, the General Rules of the World Postal Union and the Third Posting Payment Agreement. We're talking about these acts today. The World Postal Convention with the conclusion of the Protocol is one of the fundamental international legal instruments of the World Postal Union, which is binding on all Member States and thus on the Republic of Croatia. It shall contain common rules applicable and applicable to all international postal services as well as provisions relating to services for written consignments and postal packages and the final protocol with respect to the World Postal Convention shall contain reserves on that international contract. The World Postal Convention adopted at the Union Congress in 2012 confirming this law shall regulate the payment of postage and the exemption from the obligation to pay the postage, the responsibility of appointed operators and the sender of postal mail and damages, the account or the amount of terminal fees. The processing of personal data of users, the classification of consignments on the basis of their format, the payment of invoices in international exchange in postal and e-mail services, and of course at the end and stamps. Given the particular meaning of the Convention of interest of the Republic of Croatia as a full member of the World Postal Union, it shall become a party to the Convention as soon as possible and the Convention for the Republic of Croatia shall enter into force as soon as possible. The second document that we are talking about today is the law, the general rules of the World Postal Union, whose validation is proposed by the draft law, which contains provisions that ensure the application of the Constitution of the World Postal Union and its harmonised work, the work of congresses and extraordinary conventions, and which determine the composition, work and meetings of the Governing Council, the Council for the Post Office and the Advisory Committee, the provisions on the international office, the procedure for submitting proposals to Congress, the establishment and regulation of the costs of the World Postal Union, which contribute to Member States as well as the discussion of the use of languages within the Union, the arbitration procedure and other significant questions for themselves. Since the aim of the World Postal Union is to develop communication between countries by providing postal services effectively as well as by contributing to achieving objectives, international cooperation in the cultural, social and economic fields and taking into account cooperation mechanisms within individual bodies of the World Postal Union, which are governed by the general rules, is justified by the interest of the Republic of Croatia as its full member as soon as possible to become a party to the general rules and that the general rules become effective as soon as possible in the Republic of Croatia. The third law is the law by which we settle a postal payment service agreement. This law ensures the implementation of a secure and accessible postal payment service, adapted to the highest number of users on the basis of a system that enables the interoperability of the network of designated operators for the purpose of modernising the work processes and the successful communication of users in the electronic data exchange system. In accordance with this Agreement, Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure the continuity of postal payment services in the event of non-fulfilment of contractual obligations by their designated operators, without prejudice to the obligations of those postal service providers to other postal service providers on the basis of Union acts. This Agreement also regulates the taking of measures by designated operators in order to fulfil the obligations of the prescribed national and international regulations relating to the control of money laundering, terrorist financing and financial crime. In addition to that, the Agreement also regulates the question of the quality of postal payment services, the postal reference, payment order, payment order and mail transfer order, the international buying-in instruction and an emergency instruction whereby each Member State of the Union must provide in its field at least one of the postal services of payment and contain the principles of confidentiality and non-violence of electronic data exchange applicable in the exchange of data necessary for the provision of the postal payment service between designated operators which have the principles of quality control of services. Speaking of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has a regulated postal service market. The role and importance of postal services or markets, postal services on the global communications market have changed significantly over the past period. However, postal services remain very, still a very important factor affecting economic growth, amid the general economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia, positive effects of liberalisation on certain trends and market developments are seen, somewhat less pronounced than in the EU, which does not mean that they are not present at all. Also, classical postal services are increasingly under pressure from other, more modern means of communication, which also affects the growth and development of the market. The liberalisation enabled dynamic changes in the postal services market, i.e. changes that occurred in the provision of postal services by the providers. Some providers who did not find any interest or did not find their way to the market ceased to provide services, while new providers who based their business on postal services emerged. Since we do not have the 2015 data, we have from 2014, we can say that in 2014 there were 21 postal service providers, which is 2 fewer than in 2013, and during which, I say, five existing providers stopped working, and three new donors were reported. Croatian mail is performing a universal service and has been given amendments to the law in the previous 15-year term. At the end of 2014, 9454 workers who provided postal services to the service provider were employed in the postal service market. We're really talking about one big area and not a small number of employees. Providers who provided postal services in 2014 achieved a billion and 430 million kunas of revenue from all donors who achieved more, only Croatian mail achieved slightly less revenue. The only provider of the universal service of the Croatian Post Office for their 182 million services arrived at that service somewhere around 720 million kuna in 2014. In addition to universally there are replacement postal services which are universal services, but they may deviate from certain conditions relating to the quality and obligation to provide services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the Law on Postage Services, if the universal service management obligation creates a net cost which constitutes an unfair financial burden for the universal service provider, the provider shall be entitled to compensation for an unfair financial burden and shall be the change from the latest amendments to the Postal Service Act. When we talk about the past few months and the possibilities for something to do in this area, we must say that, given that regulation of 2015, 10 months simply have their hands tied in some way and we have what happened to us that the current administration's mandate has expired unfortunately because of the inability of the V.D. Directors and administrations, I think, has set up a court of law enough to talk about how we can, I say, and in this sector that has nearly tens of thousands of employees working. However, I hope that with such a system, I will also say with all the problems that the post office now faces will do a good job in 2016. These laws and the adoption of additional international rules have the task of making respect for a more competitive, better-quality public enterprise, which must progress, I say, independently of some problems. And that is why we once again note that we accept these three draft laws on behalf of the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10487	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10488	Final proposal Law confirming the World Postal Convention with Final Protocol, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.57. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. Please vote. Who's in? 131 for, 1 abstention and no one against. I find that most of the votes have been passed by the Law of Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10501	The next item is point 6. - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of HAC restructuring projects, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 62. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 85 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Dear Deputy Minister, Mr Miro Škgatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is today another proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Croatian highway restructuring project with the final bill, the emergency procedure first and second reading. Well, maybe I'll go back to why an emergency procedure. Well, first of all, for reasons we know what financial situation the whole car is on the road, so I'd say the road sector. In short, Rijeka-Zagreb highways account for about a billion euros in debt somewhere, Croatia highways over 3 billion euros, Croatia roads a billion and a half euros. So very significant and high pressure from this entire sector. As regards HAC in particular, HAC without these credit funds probably would not have survived the next quarter, so probably this emergency procedure request is fully justified. As far as I'm aware of the situation there, I know they had funds for the first quarter and the ARZ and the HAC. Already this second quarter is very tense and it will be difficult without certain loans or overrides to solve this situation. What is a question of a global, broader concept is how to resolve the issue on one side of a large debt in the highway sector, and in what way, means not only by these financial injections trying to intervene means buying time in one financial year, but by how to make assumptions that a complete sector can reach some zero, healthy position thanks to its income side and be able to function without additional State interventions or be continuously dependent on financial injections from the banking sector. As far as HAC is concerned, it is well known that HAC has a major problem in financing its commitments over the next 6 or 7 years. So that goes for both ARZ and HAC. In 2002, it was about a year after that year when the annual obligations to suppliers began to fall significantly to the meaning of these financial arrangements that these two companies entered into. As far as the complete concept is concerned, it is heading towards creating such conditions through the World Bank to reduce the total debt of the highway sector and to reduce the total debt of the central state in that segment. By assuming that the concept assumes that the World Bank would only take over part of the guarantee but not physically part of the funding. So part of the financing and refinancing of the commitments that these two companies or even we can talk about in a broader context and about this third one are Croatian roads which should be observed in a single package to make it more clear to all of us what this is really about. This debt, unfortunately or fortunately, is neither since yesterday nor before yesterday, has been withdrawn from the period when investment in the construction of highway corridors in the Republic of Croatia has been stepped up, probably at one point and with the desire to create such a communal infrastructure that will be quality support and Croatian tourism. Since I come from that resort, then it may be easier or harder for me to talk about it, but the fact is that these companies have reinvested and over-indebted over time. Today is, of course, the theoretical or hypothetical question is whether this process of construction is, and ultimately, in order to build what we have today, what we can be ultimately and proud of, because the Republic of Croatia today absolutely has a quality network of highways, which, first and foremost, is my support and Croatian tourism. And probably without that element, we wouldn't have been in the last few years, so looking at this period that was so optimistic in front of us and hoping that this season would be better than the one before or two years ago. So even these indicators we've got on partial already for the first quarter of this year are good. So the growth and transport of physical in the number of vehicles and transport in the financial sense we have a quality and it works well. However, this burden that presses us through these obligations is significant and I would love to tell you that in the next year or two days a particular concept of solving this problem will be circled, not that we will meet again here in 3 or 6 months with this or similar topic. Today there's HAC, the day after tomorrow there'll be ARZ, then a year again and again and again and again and so on and so forth. So, the concept is primarily to see how to reduce the total debt, how to reduce the total debt of the Republic of Croatia in some percentage through the World Bank intervention. So the concept can be to refinance a part of the loans that are unfavourable. The concept can be to settle a certain percentage of the debt that total pressures these companies at the end of 2022, after which, in a normal period of time, these companies will come into a position that they will probably be able to service the obligations they are subject to today on their own and from their regular incomes. This is also a technical issue today on a single loan that has been placed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has been in the Republic of Croatia since 1992. As a financial institution, it was established in 1990. So, a serious financial entity that follows infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia in continuity anyway, and that is also good news that, if nothing like this can be done through the EBRD, I would say the inter-phase payments are serviced and consumed. So what pleases us in the ministry is the fact that we will continue quality cooperation with the EBRD and that the EBRD will be the bearer of the physical, technical and legal and financial credit of this credit that will take the Croatian highways. The credit has been valorised to 250m euros. It's roughly divided into three tranches. 2 tranches are 100m euros each where they will be financed and the costs of the loan itself. It's a tranche A1 and a2. And there goes a tranche B with 50 million euros, so-called accompanying and service means that will allow certain steps to be taken in the restructuring of this company, but not only of this company but also of the subsidiaries of the daughter, which is HAC-ONC, which today is much larger than the HAC itself, but is practically an operator and is also providing a service for Croatian highways for compensation. Of course, for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway in the section of management of part of the route that covers ARZ. But since ARZ is not a party to the process for these credit assets then more or less now we just mention HAC-ONC which is definitely in the process or should be or should have already been in the restructuring process because it is about a daughter who has nearly 3000 employees and HAC as a parent company with limited liability has about 203 or 204 employees. The key question is, we're going to use this loan to settle this financial year, this financial year when we're looking at HAC's portfolio. By the fact that I have to stress it and now it's already known that we don't have a solution for any of these companies so far in 2017. Therefore, the announcement until the overall concept of restructuring of highway companies is resolved we will listen to these topics someone else I sincerely hope for a shorter time. As far as the loan itself is concerned, it can be said that it is favourable, that it offers not only technical debt service through the placement of these funds but above all provides the possibility that through the funds collated by this loan, and they are worth 50 million euros, above all I mean 30 million euros that will be used for direct restructuring means, first and foremost, HAC-ONC itself, but also HAC. It is expected that in this already calendar year, the budget year, the operational year and the tourist year when we talk about highway companies we expect first and foremost to encourage us from the title of the ministry to address the overall concept of quality, not alone, but with the help of the World Bank, but also other financial institutions that will be involved in the implementation of the entire programme. Of course, without the help of the Ministry of Finance, without the help of certain entities that are listed here and here in this material and which form an integral part of the material and would say the contract that was signed. Because the Ministry of Finance has signed consent means it will provide a guarantee for these funds and the administration of Croatian highways has signed in some way the contract that comes here for verification in the Croatian Parliament. So what we expect, and we want, and we hope that by raising your hands, there will be assumptions not only that in one long series we have a lot of contracts that will only cover existing debts and force us into a new period of time with an unknown outcome. I think that in this financial year and the next we must have a fully closed concept of resolving the overall debt problem in the highway and road sector. And this, in my opinion, is one of the steps in which the assumptions are created that with other people's resources you solve part means the problems that have accumulated in the highways and that finally once for all time we take this point off the agenda and that we have to say that we now have a concept that is correct, which is honestly made, which is sustainable above all, which has been done by competent means of external and independent institutions that want to help at this stage. So I look at this material first of all from that aspect and I think we all need it because there's almost no alternatives. I know there have been various attempts in the past, different concepts. Why some of them didn't realize themselves to me is hard to talk about right now, and I think it might be incorrect to talk about it, but I think this time that we're on is the only time, that he has precise deadlines. So I'm talking about some elements, inputs that are wider than this material itself. And here's a way of asking you for one support because this company doesn't have an alternative, especially at this point. I repeat in the highway sector these two companies that are crucial to us have funds for barely the first two quarters of this calendar year. So we have to do this part. It'll give us assumptions for a step further. And I hope that, at the end of 2017, we will have a round concept, that we will already have the first steps in the restructuring process itself, which is a condition without which we cannot, in some order of time, activate these assets that are the subject of this loan. So this loan isn't just a simple loan, it's a loan that carries a part of the concept, which is part of a commitment that the highways have to take seriously this time and I hope to take the job in solving the accumulated problems that you haven't since yesterday, not since the day before, but maybe even in two, three terms backwards. Here I am wanting not to be too long and perhaps not to tire you of a topic that has been close to me for years, with which I have met on a daily basis, please support and ask us to define this project as a strategic project for the Republic of Croatia, because these are companies that are of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. They can generate profit in the future and that quality profit, they are currently a generator and strengthening our tourism means overall looking at the economy as a whole. So I don't think either of us can stay indifferent or indifferent to this agenda point. I thank you from the heart, and I am open to all future questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10503	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I've listened very carefully to everything you've said and if I'm not wrong about everything you've said, nothing has changed in comparison to the last three, four years in our strategic companies that we're talking about. The same is the financial crisis, the same are the financial delinquencies that were to be addressed. Also, if I'm not mistaken a few years ago, the former government had some ideas that were strongly rejected in this House and out of the current ruling majority. This is what, when I remember just about half a year before this campaign, the Patriot coalition promised that there were no new loans, that they had ideas for everyone, that they were going to go into reform, that we would get rid of everything and come here today to the Parliament where you are begging us from the heart to solve the HAC crisis by taking out a loan. Well, that's not very creative, nor is it any particular reform. That's what a kid in elementary school would think of. So I wanted to confirm here the public works, so the state of HAC and the credit they have and which they need we'll pay off so we can raise a new loan that you say isn't ordinary, I guess it's unusual, but whatever it is you're doing is a loan. So the reform is that we pay loans to new loans. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10505	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one was registered for discussion by the HDZ club, the esteemed representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10506	The Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Representatives Club, will support the proposal of the Law to confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the HAC restructuring project with the final draft of the law. This legislative proposal confirms the loan guarantee contract agreed by the loan agreement between the Croatian Autoroad Society d.o.o. and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Croatian highway restructuring project. The total cost associated with this project is 250m euros and consists of two parts or two tranches. The first part of the tranche refers to the amount of 200m euros that the Croatian highway company d.o.o. It plans to use for the closure of existing commercial bank loans and the second part of the B tranche of 50 million euros is planned to be used for the labour force restructuring and capital expenditure financing programme in relation to the HAC-ONC operational restructuring programme and the potential financing of privatisation advisers. Under the terms of the contract offered by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Croatian highways were granted a loan n 15 years, including 2 years of main repayments. In addition, this loan is also very favourable from the cost-price aspect because it was taken at an interest rate containing 6 monthly Euribor plus 1% with an initial fee of 1% and a reservation fee of 0.5%. And the reason for this loan, we heard before, lies in the fact that this year the HAC is due to receive 466m euros in principal and 124m euros in interest, i.e. a total of 590m euros to be financed and the HAC is obliged to provide 400m euros in financing for the 2016 business plan, half of which, or 200m euros, intend to provide through this loan with the EBRD and the remaining 200m euros will be provided by a group of Croatian banks. We heard that the total HAC debt and the Rijeka-Zagreb highway are currently 4.3 billion euros in total, of which the HAC relates to 3.1 billion euros and to the ARC 1.2 billion euros in debt. It is therefore necessary to provide HAC with those funds which will be used to refinance credit obligations, since the loans due on payment are secured by the State guarantee and any damage caused by the untimely payment may result in a guarantee protest and early payment of all credits and debts made by this company. The guarantee and loan contract were already signed 2 months ago or more precisely 30.03.2016 by the Minister of Finance for the Republic of Croatia and by the Director of the EBRD for the Republic of Croatia and this legislative proposal provides that the State as a guarantee for this EBRD loan and as the principal debtor shall unconditionally guarantee the payment of the amounts of loans due in due time and the orderly execution of all other HAC obligations. Confirmation of this guarantee contract, i.e. the loan agreement from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is a necessary and short-term and only logical solution to the situation in which the Croatian highway company is located. What we are all involved in deciding on issues of national interest must be discussed and ultimately wise to decide is certainly how to solve in the long term the situation in which the companies are connected with the network of Croatian highways and the peninsula. This means that we no longer need to and must not make ad hoc decisions where one company is taken and the other company benefits. Here I think of the change of the Law on Roads from 2013 where HAC took 40 limes from excise duty on fuel amounting to 80, where HAC has been distributed to HAC since the revenue for fuel amounting to 60 limes and has been distributed to HAC on the principle of 20 June of the Croatian road, 20 of the HAC and 20 of the Lips remains HAC. And this way almost stopped further construction of highways in the Republic of Croatia and significantly deteriorated and such poor prospects of timely repayment of credit debts because the HAC lost almost a billion kuna a year with this redistribution and no longer found a long-term solution to the problem of over-indebted HAC and further construction and maintenance of Croatian highways. We have also heard from the deputy ministers that the new government has been making efforts from the very beginning to determine the debt restructuring model throughout the road sector and as part of the project of reforming the highway sector, the EBRD is financing from its own 500 000 euros consultants to improve business efficiency, operators, meaning the daughter of HAC-ONC, and the restructuring of Matica, HAC and ARZ companies, as well as their possible mergers due to the reduction of business costs. In addition to engagement with the EBRD, the ministry is currently holding talks with the World Bank on a sectoral model for the entire road infrastructure and the purpose of engagements with the EBRD and with the World Bank is to achieve an optimal model that will allow the restructuring of adverse debt and companies throughout the road sector. Therefore, the intention is to reduce the cost of the loan, extend the time limit of payments, achieve the balance of income and expenditure parties, and to restructure HAC, ARZ and HAC-ONC through the measures proposed by the consultant hired by the EBRD, of course with instructions and active cooperation in which both our experts and the Ministry will participate, from HAC, ARZ and Croatian Roads, where working groups have already been established for both financial and operational restructuring. So we need to find solutions to overcome the problems of highway liquidity that can potentially endanger the implementation of the state budget in the coming years and the fundamental problem is actually choosing a model of highway management that will benefit society as a whole. Because we know very well that the Republic of Croatia is connected with modern and quality highways. The construction of highways is certainly one of the most successful and recognizable projects implemented in recent Croatian history. And it's almost inconceivable life today in the Republic of Croatia without these built highways. It can also be said that the construction of highways has had an exceptional impact on many aspects of economic and social life in Croatia given the geographical position of the Republic of Croatia. It is of immense importance to connect Croatian towns and cities with neighbouring countries and Central and Western European countries. The importance of the road network for the development of tourism, transport and the exploitation of the transport position of the Republic of Croatia, the reduction of time and costs of transport of passengers and goods, the increase of land value, real estate and total social wealth. Therefore, we believe that the granting of guarantees to HAC is not a matter of state support because the construction of highways is part of the overall development economic policy of the Republic of Croatia established by the basic documents adopted by the most legislative body and while the company of Croatia is highway d.o.o. The extended hand of the owner or tool for the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's policy is the duty to provide financing for the construction and maintenance of the Croatian highway until the Republic of Croatia implements the debt and management restructuring process for the highway sector. Therefore, I repeat, we will support this law as only currently possible and in this case I think an optimal solution for the resolution of the HAC debt that reached 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10507	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Honorable representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would only like to repeat or clarify this story about the redistribution of these 20, 40 limes from the very fee paid through the price of fuel. So there is no key question whether this fee is the revenue of the Croatian highways or whether it is the income of the Croatian Railways. The point is, that's where the money's missing. So in the system of maintaining our transport infrastructure was it roadside, there was a railway lack of money and we are funding it from credit and we have financed it for a very long time and we have accumulated it in the last 10, 15 years over 25 billion kuna some debt in the Croatian highways that should be returned and it will not be easy, therefore, it is only the principal and where interest and all other obligations and the point is actually about what we as a government tried to do but there was resistance, therefore, it is a monetization, about the introduction of a parter that would bear part of the burden of that great debt which, therefore, with interest, is rising and up to 4 billion euros, and one time this problem must begin to be seriously solved. Everything else is actually spilling from hollow to empty to say so because simply money is not that this problem or that these loans are being paid off on a regular basis. Therefore, this measure was also taken by counterpart Hajdasa solely because the parallel movement of the preparation of the monetization process was one of the measures that would ultimately lead to monetisation, the resolution of the long highway in another more quality way. So now we've come to the stage of mentioning the IPO, but here's none of it yet, so we expect to move into this project more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10509	Thank you. Replication response, Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10510	Thank you. Dear colleague, it is clear to all of us that the money simply wasn't in the budget, but it was four years to figure out how to solve the problem of overindebted enterprises within road and rail infrastructure. Unfortunately, this began before the end of the term of office and one option to say that yours did not pass in the people, for the other you had a lot of objections within and your ministries meant and did not finish until the end of your term, but I do not think it is a way that at the expense of Croatian highways that are also over-indebted and come into question means the days of their construction is not a way to cover the gaps in the budget or those subsidies that came to the railways, which have been halved to try to patch up with that money. So we can't take one company to benefit another and we know they're both in trouble. So, you need to find a solution, I believe that it's been four years to work on it, that one is right to say how to get out of that crisis brings and yet none is finished. Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10511	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coli Ćosic, 60 lipa has been introduced and during the same time, the same political nomenclature that reduced those 60 lipa and reduced with the sole goal that these are funds for the construction of highways and in some future times for the return of loans. During the past three years, nearly 3 billion kuna have been lost at the expense of reducing 40 June Croatian highways. When you take the total debt of the Croatian highways, Croatian highways would have had those 40 limes as their original income today had 10% less debt than it is, they would have far less interest costs and with the economic recovery of Croatia, with the burden of transport and with the redefining of certain deadlines for the return of credit to Croatia highways could finance their obligations without any problems. So here it is, let's say this loan shouldn't be used at all to get this piece back, but it could be returned from these 40 limes and this more favourable loan could be used to repay another more unfavourable loan. Because for a time there were high interest rates, now they're historically low interest rates. Question in 5 or 6 years since here's the 6-month basis for interest rates on this loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10513	Replica reply, distinguished representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10514	Well, here's dear colleague Shuker, you're absolutely right, so those three billion kunas almost wouldn't have to lift this loan from RBD or from commercial banks, and I'm sure that would mean a lot for stability of further highway construction. Unfortunately, there has been this reduction that I think is not logical because the same problems include both highways and railways and Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10515	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you explained well what happened in the past with Croatian roads, his and her duties. Namely, they were placed on the burden and other obligations they were supposed to be on Croatian roads. Their income was reduced from these 60 June, new commitments that were not refunded, no co-operatives were paid, for example, on the fast road Vrbovec – Bjelovar, no contractors were paid. For three years, it's been standing. It all costs money. In the end, the lawsuits and everything that has happened in the past has come to the burden of the Croatian highways. This is a commendable initiative to fully restructure the debt, to find new long-term loans, with smaller interest rates for Croatian highways to remain in the management of the Croatian state, that there is no monetization that is actually wanted to be given to others who would be smarter than the leadership in Croatia to manage and serve over Croatian highways money or not to maintain them well enough, and so traffic would be as difficult as there are examples on those where some concessionaries are. So far, no responsibility, no worries, and she wasn't there. This is indeed a commendable initiative that will bear fruit and we believe that this one and a half percent interest will contribute to highway stability, further progress, bargaining and construction, and not to that. Of course, it is necessary to return what belongs to them in order to reduce these debts, which is 60 drops in the fuel that belongs to them. And Croatian railways finance from European cohesion funds and thus do what is necessary. We believe that you will also have enough hearing and time to restructure the entire debt and take new loans with a longer time and less interest at the most with 1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10517	Thank you. Replication response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10518	Here's a thank you, Mr. Djakic. Well, here's what you heard from the deputy minister and I said something. So, the Croatian government and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure are actively working with both the World Bank and the European Bank to solve the whole problem, meaning everyone, the entire road sector. And as far as I know, there are 11 working groups that are actively working and will certainly give good guidance to this EBRD consultant who, which is also funded by their funds and that will find that solution to the whole problem. And of course, it can handle our budget, and of course everything that's going to be done needs to be discussed with our citizens as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10519	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ana Komaraić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague, you said in your presentation that you were very concerned about Croatian highways and I agree with you. But I wish you'd been concerned when those highways were being built and when prices flew to heaven in 2004 and we have what we have today. You keep saying that you think you need a complete solution for, therefore, highways, that highways do not create new losses and, of course, do not have to be in debt. I agree with you, too, but then the former government offered one of those complete solutions, which was a monetization. And then your club, of course, made half of Croatia on its feet to go against it. And today we're taking credit for covering highway debts. Now, you say it's good, and I say it's not good. And now I'm going to say why it's not good. It's a loan for this year. And I'm asking you to answer me what we're going to do next year and next year and next year. So, without a complete solution, there is no success for highways. We'll be in debt from year to year and create new debts and deceive the public. No, this isn't a good solution and this isn't good for highways. What the last government offered was a complete solution, but I'm very sorry that you reacted populistly and didn't support the solution, and today you wouldn't have this and you wouldn't have to be in debt again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10521	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10522	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I didn't say this was an excellent and good solution. It is the only possible solution that is now in this state and possible and that is what your government has launched and all the negotiations that are to raise these loans. So, we've come to this state of affairs that way we have to figure it out to say put out the fire. And as far as costing highways is concerned, I don't think it's easy to compare simple prices both in time and in place, according to the location of origin, because it takes a good analysis of how to compare these prices. I watched an analysis of EUROSTAT, which is an official EU statistical agency where they worked in 2007, so before the crisis started, they did highway cost prices in 27 European countries and countries in our environment, Bosnia, Serbia, Montenegro. And therefore the road price index in the Republic of Croatia was 62% compared to European roads and they are, even Romania has that index 82. Even in Albania, it was a higher coefficient, which means cost prices than in Croatia. So, I think it's hard to do with time, and at that time, it's also been a pick-up and fuel and labor and everything that's been on the market. And I don't know what product in the Republic of Croatia was 40% smaller than it was, but it was building highways. So it's questionable and everyone has their own way of interpreting it. What it is, it's official data. And I agree and that's what we're talking about, so one whole solution needs to be found. It was four years to find it. It is now up to this government to find it, to present it to Croatian citizens and try to solve this story right once.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10523	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10524	Thank you very much. Kola Ćosic, when any decision is made, and especially financially, it must be based on analysis and must be socially and economically justified. The decision to take 40 limes per litre of gasoline from highway financing was reckless, harmful and superficial. She wasn't even childish, she was infancy. Because the decision was the verdict of the Croatian highways and the creation and creation of circumstances for the preparation of the privatisation of Croatian highways. And it's logical to finance highways from a liter of gasoline, not railways. Because we don't drive cars on tracks, we drive on highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10525	Answer, Honorable Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10526	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maric, I fully agree with your findings. Namely, this price where it was reduced to 20 limes could have been made to find a long-term solution for resolving Croatian highways. And the gentlemen probably thought that the monetization of highways would pass and that it would sell everything and that it would remain 20 lipes and that it would be enough for the further functioning of Croatian roads and some further construction of highways. But that didn't happen. If it had been adopted after restructuring and resolving the debt of these companies I would have agreed fine, here we have a solution meaning in another way, but this has been adopted before and unfortunately here has led to these consequences that we now have a difficult return of credit and reduced highway construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10527	Thank you. The next debate is the SDP club, a respected representative of Siniša Hajdas-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10528	So it's a loan from the Croatian highways and the EBRD which is exactly what Mr. Shucker therefore started at the 11th month but it actually started with negotiations on 200m euros plus option B, so that's 50m euros for restructuring, let's say, for so on. Receipts if there is a potential surplus in enterprises. And that's at that moment and now a transitional measure, I can agree with that. But they do not agree that Croatian highways can be viewed separately and cannot be viewed separately from the rest of the road system of the Croatian roads, as well as the Croatian railways. Because some European countries are financing railways from fuel consumption right now. So it's normal and it's in line to say so with recommendations and to call it a common European transport policy. But what I would like to warn about is actually the tranche B and so 50 million euros that will increase the public debt of the state because with these 200 million actually remain neutral because debt returns, 50 million euros is a new borrowing. So this is also also the Ministry of Finance probably now approved because the negotiations ended by the current minister i.e. His assistant. So we always have three stages of negotiations with the EBRD and the World Bank. So this is about the fact that it is very explicit here on page 45 that it is also about the financing of privatisation consultants who advise guaranteeers of 3m euros. So I'm talking about privatisation, I'm not talking about the concession to be very clear. And also to my inquiry on the Assembly Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, so I get an answer on May 25th from the ministry that is very clear, which says that therefore one of the possible measures in the overall process of reforming and restructuring the system is the possible inclusion of private capital in the HAC and HAC-ONC systems. In order to encourage an increase in the efficiency and long-term sustainability of the system at this time, it is not possible to prejudge whether or not in any model, form and volume so that it can be. So here, directly from the response of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, it is evident that the privatisation of HAC is being considered. Since that's what I'm saying in the answer, it's never been anyone's intention before. So we, it's true, talked about concessions or monetization as it was popularly called in public, but it's actually a clean concession, but we never wanted to privatize anything. So, about HAC-ONC as a charge and maintenance, I have my own opinion, so a private partner can work there. So most of the European charging systems themselves were privatised, but no one ever thought to privatise the public good. Here in these answers it reads. But I will conclude, because I agree with the rational man Mr. Skrgatic, that this is currently the only and possible right now to bridge this year and that in fact then HAC is prepared for one of the most likely forms of IPO which was also best accepted in the country with the inclusion of Croatian pension funds but not in HAC but actually in HAC-ONC which can then receive a long-term concession. Because then this is also the solution for accumulated debts that you wouldn't have solved even if there were 60 lipes left because it would have actually happened cow in the railways and also in the Croatian roads. That's fact. I've always watched, and I'm going to watch traffic soholistic, completely and not partially and individually. Finally, the SDP club will support this and let's call the law but we will be very careful to watch what happens with point B, so with a 50m-euro tranche. Because the rest here is said on page 45 in the Croatian transcript, so the financing of privatisation advisers, and also from the answer is visible which is a public document, was obtained by all members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure to mention here the privatisation of HAC which we will in any case prevent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10529	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10530	Dear Doncic, I agree, it may be strange for some, with this part where you said that a complete infrastructure space in Croatia traffic should be watched together. Unfortunately, however, we are being discussed here depending on who is in which position. So sometimes if you look at the debates, I remember some other times, so when the Parliament was proposed, there was a lot of money being pushed from the state budget towards the railroads. So every parliamentary debate was headed in that direction. However, what you may definitely have had good intentions with those 60-20-40, but this is a process that could only happen when you know exactly what will be done with HAC. But until that happened, those 60 limes simply had to stay where they were. Why? Because those 20 limes they gave to the Croatian roads did not increase their activity and their enhanced maintenance of roads that are not part of the HAC. So that's a fact. Because if we look at the financial plans, then you'll see that they've been shrinking all these three years, right? At the same time as we look at Croatian railways, you can give Croatian railways as much money as you want, but until they do restructure it is simply a waste of money. I remember there once upon a time the working ratio of HZ was 2.85 and that means the earned kuna from the state budget had to come 2.85 kuna that they could even function. So they were basically making money somewhere, so basically not even 25% of the resources needed to function. And then the World Bank project went into restructuring, and it went down, and then it stopped and they unfortunately came here where they were. So we simply took money from someone who could have been better with those 40 limes and thrown it somewhere else without any effect, that's the key problem. It's just... you don't have to give money anywhere where no restructuring or reform has been done because that's how we just throw ourselves away with taxpayers' money. It's a fact and no one can challenge it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10531	Replicate reply, distinguished representative Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10532	... Now I think it's an apology. [[Specially enabled.]] So as far as the Croatian Railways system is concerned, we would like to be precise, so 400 million kunas did not get the Croatian Railways but received HZ Infrastructure, and the Croatian Railways system itself, if we watch it all over again from the former Holding, has 3,5 years ago 17 thousand employees, now has them somewhere close to 10. So there are some shifts definitely made, and the whole idea of 20 lips for both Croatian roads and 20 lips for Croatian railways, so we're talking about 400 million kunas for these companies was exclusively like co-financing so-called. the domestic components per EU project. We have to admit, so I'm just saying the facts, that Croatian roads have also actually achieved two European projects. We're talking about a former operational transport programme in 2007-2013, it's a bridge on Ciovo and a Split bypass that just one major part of the funds as a national component is funded from these 20 June. Also the Croatian railways that contracted two railways, so they agreed on a railway line... Toad, I speak HZ Infrastructure, they've arranged the Long Village-Crysday railroad. And that was just meant for the European component. And in the past two years, of course, we wanted to solve the problem of the Croatian highways' responsibilities, so let us call the Croatian public debt, so because of the change in methodology and the new... in a way that we try to make freeway concessions, and in this way we would actually solve 3 billion euros in Croatia's debt. Does model A therefore make them clean to say concessions or model B by introducing Croatian pension funds and citizens. So that debt would be reduced. And on the other hand, you've had pressure, let's not forget it knows it, and colleague Lalovac is actually the best, you've had the pressure... The European Commission to reduce deficits. The Croatian roads and HZ Infrastructure are also part of the Croatian budget. So what's the matter? So you're down. the final thought if I can, if you haven't cut from 1 billion and 200 million kuna, so directly from the budget to 800 million kuna, and these 400 million you added from the excise duty of HZ Infrastructure. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] So that's what other European countries do, it's nothing weird. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10533	The next club is the Croatian People's Party Liberal Democrats and distinguished representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this looks like a form, technically, technicality, but we in the HNS are not at all controversial. It's actually about refinancing, the kind of refinancing and one financial restructuring of the debt part. However, this tranche that was spoken of, the tranche B is controversial to us. It's just very simple why we're taking credit for something that we don't fully know how much it costs. Is this intended amount simply in the layman's dictionary given is that enough? Furthermore, what we are concerned about is that Croatia's roads, i.e. the state, will have to re-indebt an additional 200 thousand euros because the total return of the anonymity is somewhere around 400m euros. So that's only 50% of the amount that Croatia's highways make according to what is described in this proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act is written. Trancha B has a series of specific dilemmas, doubts. Some were answered, some were given by the Deputy Minister, and the minister himself made it very clear through the media what was going on. However, there are many illogical, contradictory statements and simply some may even say that they are confusing. First, I'm talking about the 50m-euro tranche B piece. So it is said that 30m euros would be financing capital expenditure in relation to the operational restructuring programme, which means with the aim of implementing an action plan for restructuring that has not been adopted. How can we know that we would plan certain financial resources and we don't know for what? Furthermore, what is controversial and what is mentioned in these arguments and statements that we could hear is also mentioned privatisation, what, privatization of what? Furthermore, we are aware of the fact that the HAC is burdened with the debts it must repay and self-government by me would be totally acceptable to the work of financial restructuring. But I'm telling you, there's a disputed B of 50 million because it contains something that we need to be realistically objectively perceiving and has a lot of dilemmas and misunderstandings. And now let's compare what's said in the very explanation, what's said, what the deputy minister used to say here and before and in the public, the minister himself says, and I'm going to quote, when it comes to a consultant that costs about 500 thousand euros, or three million euros, now I don't know whether there's going to be privatisation, or if there's going to be a consultant, and it's said, "It's possible that one of the recommendations of a restructuring consultant is also the need to include private capital, or some form of privatisation of some part of the system." So it's all based on assumptions. Well, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues don't get credit based on conjecture. That loan will have to be paid back, the Croatian budget. Furthermore, I quote: “It is important to point out that following the advice of privatisation advisers is not binding on the guaranteeer or the Republic of Croatia. ” And on the other hand, when we look at the parts of the contracts that talk about Article 3. The implementation of the project, I quote: "In addition to the general obligations set out in Article 4 of the Standard Conditions, the borrower will, unless the bank agrees otherwise...". Well, then, what's the list? And we are also talking about what the lender or EBRD, which is not acceptable to the EBRD. Whether or not we are thinking in a way, or should we think that our hands are tied to certain, whether phases, are ways of restructuring. If it wasn't the noose around your neck. This is the case in Article 3(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Functioning of the European Union, the Swiss Well, at the point... it says that the restructuring action plan should be developed and approved by 31 December 2016, carried out in accordance with the schedule set out therein. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then draw up and approve the labour restructuring action plan by 31 December 2016 and implement it. To implement the corporate governance action plan, to ensure that every reduction in labour force, not to quote everything now, etc. Furthermore, develop and adopt a toll control mechanism. One technique. It's June month. I would like to hear from the Deputy Minister if you have information on whether this is all catchable or accessible by the end of the year until 31.12.2016. I'm afraid, I doubt whether it's even possible to do that when today you don't know in which direction to restructure Croatian roads as a whole. And now if we continue to read the articles of the contract then you'll see that they exist too, that I don't say penalization, which I don't want to talk about and I believe that you are, that you know more than well what it says in that part. All in all, it would be acceptable for us in the HNS to deal with the amount of 200m euros that it speaks of financial restructuring. But again, I point out tranche B is causing a big dilemma, a big doubt. But I also hope that if you can't give us those answers today you'd like to hear very nearly what about that part of the restructuring plan, the restructuring action plan in which direction it will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10535	Thank you. No more debates. I'm closing the debate. And you will, I apologize. The proposer will be final. Miro Skargatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Maybe some of these doubts that were still in the air, so maybe just to make it clear, that it's a little bit of a sharp picture and that we really have a clear view of what direction we're going in. So someone quoted me when I said that this law was unusual. It's unusual for one single situation, which is that perhaps for the first time in this highway and road sector we have one loan, a loan that is conditional. And I'd say that's why there's no fear of this tranche B. Because in order to get to tranche B, you have to meet a series of conditions. So in this loan, there are several fuses in this contract that primarily protect us as a government, the ministry, so they protect you as agents when you make a decision and when you need to clarify the views and goals we are towards. Transa A is 100m euros. In order for it to be consumed, it is necessary to meet certain conditions in order to switch to tranche B. The tranche B that I see is a lot of trouble or questions, questions, it's very clear to me, so this loan could be consumed in its full scope. Finally someone said that, you'll get the funds but you have to implement the first and basic condition and it's very simple, you have to finally restructure those companies so that there's no bad public sound. Just restructuring doesn't mean conditionally and automatically now someone doesn't know how to drive 1,000 people into the street. No, so restructuring implies a complete system of redefining, seeing what's inside the weak points of the collection system, maintenance, etc., so ultimately and solving children if there are extra employees who are provided with part of the tranche B, so that's one moment where we really have all the tools that we can do it in a quality, correct and fair way. As far as this definition remains in this document, which mentions possible privatisation. I'd clear that up and laser-cut two concepts. One is the sale of infrastructure and the other means it is possible to privatise certain parts of the system that can be privatised. Well, in public, there's a lot of talk about the participation of pension funds, isn't there? It's the private capital of all of us who are in the second pillar. So in the segment, I'm going to activate some of that capital, in the segment of that part of the system, and I think I'm going to agree with the former minister when we talk about... why not? Workers' stockholdership. Why not? There's no dispute, there's no conspiracy theory. So we open up space above all that the capital of local people, we activate our citizens in the best possible way and through this approach to protect some possible manipulations in the future with the highway sector, and I can explicitly confirm that there is no sale of highways. Why? Well, after all, people said in the referendum we don't want to sell highways. Then why would I, you or someone else say that we're going to sell it in some sense now? I'm just saying that there was, the union launched an initiative on which they said we don't want to give Croatia's highway to anyone, right, except to be read except for the Croatian citizens who invested in these highways, so if you want to go through these limes in fuel. We can say that lipes are engaged in HC, HZ infrastructure or somewhere, and the same June, these are the funds of Croatian taxpayers who are placed in a system that means developing municipal infrastructure. I can say very responsibly here, there is no point in privatising Croatian highways and selling them to someone else on the foreign market. That doesn't. But to privatise the parts of the system while the Republic of Croatia remains the majority owner, hypothetically yes, it is possible but of course not without the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament where you are sitting. So no one wanted to insinuate or hide it in the text. The text is clear, it is not ambiguous and opens up possibilities first of all that a warrant is for us in the system to restructure these companies. So we don't have that alternative. So this loan might be a little unusual because that's where the standard credit came in with all the performances that usually have an interest rate,...., the number of years of payment,... etc. Maybe we wouldn't come to that debate at all. Now that we have installed some protection mechanisms in this loan together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, together with the World Bank, be assured that it will not allow a new collapse of this system and will certainly not guarantee any programmes that are not justified, which are not sustainable on the long term and which do not give perspective to you and us both to go in a good and positive direction. This time we really got to the point where someone on the outside came and said yes, we're going to give you funds under these terms and conditions, along with those fuses. Here I just wanted to be clear here, that there is no grain of doubt left that now someone here wants to do something besides you who will always make the final decision either past the Government of the Republic of Croatia or beyond the profession that should in the ultimate competent and quality and professional way present to you here what it is. Here's what I'd just like to avoid is any doubt that there's something here right now, there's nothing left, privatisation has remained since the previous document, possible works of a system that might be similar to restructuring, and in this way whether through working stock, through pensioners or someone else, I don't want to prejudge it at all because it's not in my jurisdiction, but we are certainly not forbidden to comment on these issues here. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10537	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10538	Thank you, Vice President. I believe Deputy Minister may have misunderstood me. In fact, we at the HNS are not against privatizing an act that can be privatized. However, what it says in the proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act, statements made by the minister, which we heard, are contradictory. So several options are mentioned, and that's why the tranche B is controversial. Transa A means 200m euros are not disputed. It's a financial restructuring and we're aware of the financial situation. Furthermore, what I would like to say is that it's a little strange to raise a tranche B or 50 million euros in credit for something we don't know what we're going to do. That's a question to me. I don't know, you're going to buy a car, I'm going to buy a car, so I'm tired of 20 grand, I don't know what I'm going to buy, and maybe when I get to the market, it might cost me 30 bucks, so it'll be too little. So, according to me, if it was going to go to tranche B, it was going to have a vision of what, with the Croatian roads and then it could be seen if it took 50 million euros or needed more or less. So that's what this is about, that's what I was in my debate to point out that it's weird to go in such a way because I don't want it to turn out that I'm not going back not so far into the past and the negative contexts of exactly this kind of credit or something like this and I'm commending it, this is more than commendable that these insurance contracts are, I deliberately read them, which are some kind of guarantee, but again I'm not sure about the realisation of what you're saying now, is that until 31.12 when the contract defined deadlines, is that a real option to execute what the contract says. There's a dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10539	Replica reply, Deputy Minister Miro Skrgatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10540	Here's a little bit. I think about these 30 million euros, I think it's quite clear. These are the funds that will be used to restructure these companies, for certain restructuring processes. If there is no restructuring, then there are no these companies and there is no this process at all. Then there's not even this date that you were just talking about on 31.12. This is our condition now, this is the Damak sword... So these 30m euros will have to be used in one process for the company's restructuring costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 3 million euros for the costs of the consultants you must take, under whose supervisory and escort certain actions will be carried out. Well, you already have working groups working in full rhythm, at least a dozen working groups trying to catch these deadlines. I agree with you and I'm sometimes skeptical whether it's possible to catch a deadline. But if we don't start, if we don't go, then we won't catch him for sure. So this is for us now we really see that dream we're going to hit, it's just a question of what a shame it is. I can tell you this very honestly by alluding to those unfortunate Titanics. We don't have an alternative. We don't have alternatives. I think it's for everyone sitting in this assembly to be clear. Depending on the engagement of people who are now working, entire teams of people, foreign experts, our domestics, at the ministry, we're just a roof, the top of some policy that is now trying to coordinate and do the best in the deadlines set with as little damage as possible. And be assured that these 30 million euros will not be allowed to go anywhere wrong or aside or possibly be spent in some bad way. These are strictly fixed funds that must be spent for purpose and purpose. I'm sorry, I don't think I've been too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10541	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Behind the break we continue with point seven at 15.00 hours. It's the 13th 25th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10542	The following is the final proposal for a Act confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the HAH restructuring project, first and second reading of P.Z.BR.62. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the HAH restructuring project. Please vote. Who's in? 128 for, 3 abstentions and 2 against. I note that most votes have been adopted by the Law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the HAH restructuring project.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10543	Good afternoon. Dear MPs and MPs continue the session with the agenda item - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2015; Reporter is the Advocate General for Gender Equality under Article 22. Gender equality laws. Due to the vastness of the material the full report is not multiplied but is located on the website of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the report at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Dear Advocate for Gender Equality Višnja Ljubicic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10544	I thank the honourable Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The report on the work of an independent anti-discrimination institution of the Ombudsman for 2015 is in front of you. It is part of the annual work of the institution and points to certain trends in gender-based discrimination, marital status, motherhood, sexual orientation, gender identity in the fields of labour, employment, social security, family including domestic violence, education, political participation and media. Under our jurisdiction, and based on the Law on Gender Equality over the last year, we worked on a total of 2467 items. In this regard, the 8% increase in sexual discrimination remained 90%. In relation to sexual discrimination 90% of the other discrimination base, such as family and marital status, complaints refer to only 4%, gender orientation 4.5% or birth identity slightly less than 2%. As we are given in our mandate by the Law on Gender Equality, we have conducted an independent 7 research into our human potential, our financial resources in the context of salaries, 3 in the field of labour, employment, social security, 2 in the field of social care, 1 in the field of education and science, 1 in the field of public information and media. We've also conducted nine independent analyses. As in recent years, two referendums have been held, a memorandum of cooperation with the Police Academy of the Ministry of the Interior and with the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb regarding the education of students and students so far around 13 students have been trained professionally in our institution. During 2015, we were working on the final phase of the European project "Removeing Glass Labyrinth", but also in the EU's great competition, the European Commission has managed to get a new project on women's economic empowerment and harmonising of family and business life. So in these 2.5 years, our little team of 11 people have managed to get a little less than a million euros in incas. The "Removing of Glass Labyrinth" project has been successfully completed, a business women's base is established unique in this area of Southeast Europe. In practice, discrimination appears in various areas of public and private life, and according to complaints received, the largest number of 52% refers to a turbulent labour market, employment and social security. The most frequently complained were women in as many as 80% of cases which do not surprise us because they make up most of the unemployed, most of them working for a certain time, most of them working in the underpaid sector, most of them being victims of sexual harassment. Also, in the economy women are under-represented in high economic decision-making positions, encountering a glass ceiling, have no equal opportunities to advance and have lower salaries than men. The age of life is increasingly on the labour market, especially on the burden of female labour. Women have been told on condition that they are too young or old for employment, survival on the labour market or through a system of progress. In connection with cases of domestic violence, women are still victims of crimes and crimes of domestic violence. Still a number of complaints from citizens and citizens refer to non-recognition of the forms of domestic violence. We are primarily talking about economic and psychological violence by competent institutions. As we record the decline in the crimes of domestic violence, I must say that there is one drastic trend of increasing more than 100% of the crime in the family compared to 2014. Police statistics on cases of violence against women as the most cruel form of sexual discrimination indicate that in nearly two-thirds of the victims are women. We continue to point out that we do not have a system of housing management of victims of domestic and national violence but we must mention here a bright example of the City of Zagreb that has really cared for the victims of domestic violence in recent years. Repeated research in 2015 compared to 2011 related to the allocation of financial resources for survival or maintenance of shelters and counselling centres for victims of domestic violence show that the counties allocate less than 1% on an annual basis for the survival and operation of such institutions. In the area of family relations, sexual stereotypes in the field of parental care continue to constitute the reason for the fathers' complaints while mothers point to the insensitivity of professionals related to the domestic violence they are exposed to. It should highlight a encouraging environment, a good co-operation with police structures and social care centres that have been regularly respecting the lawyer's recommendations and improving their work lately. There are still insufficient measures in Croatia to bring private, family life into line. Fathers should be more effective in encouraging more active child care and, according to national statistics, fathers used parental leave in only 2.4% of cases. In this regard, we made recommendations to the government in which to encourage an increase in the number of fathers to benefit from their rights. The demographic image in Croatia during 2015 was extremely bad, continuing only a highly unfavourable demographic process that has lasted for the past few decades. As for women's unfavourable position on the labour market, we stress that sexual discrimination against women related to the physical state of pregnancy is very widespread. We recommend a number of multidisciplinary, long-term measures such as quality population policy, housing policy resolution measures, unemployment, better quality and more favourable accommodation opportunities for children, as well as working time in mangers, kindergartens, living rooms, flexibility of the arrangement of working time for parents and employees with small children, reduction of working contracts for a certain period of time, which further conditions economic uncertainty. On the other hand, when we talk about social groups of sexual and sexual minorities during 2015, there are no significant obstacles to the implementation of the Life Partnership Act and last year we took steps to encourage judicial authorities to sanction homophobic speeches, speak hate based on sexual orientation and hate-motivated violence. Acting on complaints from citizens and citizens and their families that they were discriminated against on the basis of their birth identity, we pointed out to the Resoring Ministry of Health and the National Health Council on the need to create normative frameworks based on which birth and dysfunctional persons could solve both their legal and their medical status. I believe that the recent talks in the RES in this quarter 2016 opened the possibility of further measures in order to make health and medical services available to these persons in the Republic of Croatia in order to enable them to live in another gender identity. The establishment of a legislative framework on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War will contribute to the personal and social rehabilitation of victims especially of women. It is certainly worth a positive point to the fact that today's victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War can exercise their rights under the law even if the perpetrator of such sexual violence is unknown. The Committee for Victims of Sexual Violence has received 110 requests for recognition of the victim's status and has completed processing according to the ministry's resolution for them 35. On our own or in cooperation with other stakeholders, we have launched a series of initiatives related to achieving and improving the situation of women in rural areas, but we continue to point out the need for a strategy to improve the situation of women in rural areas. The particularly vulnerable group at risk of multiple discrimination are women with disabilities, we constantly follow their position in the field of labour, employment, availability of reproductive rights, domestic violence, social isolation, access to education, etc. As regards complaints from citizens, especially citizens in the approach to the exercise of their reproductive rights, except that we have acted on individual complaints concerning birth rights relating to the call for conscience related to birth control, we have also followed the outcome of a health inspection, inspection supervision carried out to improve the health care of pregnant women and births. And in this regard, we support the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination of Women's Discrimination, which was addressed last year by the Republic of Croatia. In the field of education, we pointed out the need to integrate civic education into the removal of stereotypes in textbooks on ignoring the importance of the role of fathers as parents in raising children, existing stereotypes of so-called. men's and so-called men's. Women's professions raising teachers' competence in the exercise of health education, use of natively sensitive language for professional qualifications, vocations, professions in official documents. Civil education and education as a separate teaching class in primary, secondary schools has not yet come to life. It should play an important role in education and education for democratic citizenship and human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedom. The results of recent research show the need for more consistent inclusion of such topics in the educational system. Based on a number of years of monitoring the media area, it cannot be said that there has been a positive shift in the way the media shows mostly women. From showing women as objects and highlighting her looks of physical attributes. But a number of critical thinking has also been observed, both citizens and citizens, who are increasingly reporting and pointing to such inappropriate content to our institution. Of course, in public space, we continue to testify and react publicly when it comes to sexism and sexist statements. Promoting gender equality in the field of political participation remains a major challenge for women to participate in political power bodies. In view of the latest parliamentary elections, only 15% of women have been elected. I remind you that for the last 10 years at local level in representative bodies, we move continuously between 17 and 18% of women at local level. Before the election of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament as well as each time before each election, we recommend that all political parties fulfil the obligation set out in Article 15 of the Law on Gender Equality under which they are obliged to respect the principle of equality on the lists of candidates to include at least 40% of members of one sex. To this end, we have also proposed using a model pair of odd or zip systems according to which every other person on the candidate list will be a person of the opposite sex. I must say that women are still under-represented in areas where both political and economic decisions are made. The area of sport, the last year, 2015 was an extremely dynamic year when it came to the position of women where we responded to sports alliances or public statements in cases of discrimination against handball judges who were discriminated against by the basis of pregnancy and motherhood, football judges for the disabling of professional development or women's chess club due to the reduction of the number of credentials compared to male clubs. Appeals in access to goods and services are increasingly being received in the field of health, banking services, insurance operations. We've done our best on complaints and our own initiative. We've made 335 recommendations, 238 warnings, 182 proposals, we've initiated four criminal charges and one criminal report. We point out that great progress has been made in respecting the recommendations and warnings made by the Ombudsman institution. I remind you in 2011 the percentage of respect by public authorities, legal persons, local communities, was only 35% compared to the opinion, the views of the prosecutor's institution's warning. According to the last analysis for 2015, this percentage is 81% fully respected. We only have 1% of institutions that don't respect and go deaf to lawyer institutions decisions. And finally, I would like to remind you that in the last year we have presented an evaluation report on the work of the institution from the moment it was founded from 2003 to 2013. It has been shown that in 13 years we have handled nearly 14,000 cases, conducted 148 independent research, about 500 analysis and collaborated with more than 340 civil society organisations including trade unions. In view of the handling of complaints from citizens and citizens in the report in question, which has some 300 pages in full, we give a description of 62 cases we have handled, we give 83 recommendations and we are confident that the Government will consider them as well as the Parliament, apply them in the current year and all in the common goal of improving, achieving the constitutional principle, giving equal opportunities, equal opportunities both men and women. I thank you, I expect a debate and we are prepared to answer all your questions about criticism and suggestions. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10545	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. ... I'm sorry, it's my fault. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, at the beginning you said that you are an independent representative of women's rights, I will discuss it when I will discuss but in any case what I want to replicate right now, in the introduction you listed as one of the chapters of your action gender equality that is not at all in the Law on Gender Equality or in the Law on Your Work, the Advocate for Gender Equality. So it's just for the public's sake, it's a trick. Namely, in our Constitution one of the fundamental settings is gender equality and this is a very important category. In English translation is usually used... which, then by direct translation to Croatia, would no longer be gender equality but gender equality. However, among the generations traditionally used as male and female in Croatian, a structure called gender ideology was made of this. According to this ideology represented by just the associations with which the attorney general very often performs is a gender that is biological, meaning male and female and gender is something that every man chooses himself, and then a man can say that he has male sexual organs but by gender he feels female or vice versa, but then when we've already mixed up these biological traits, then someone can choose that he's gay, bisexual, transgender sexually,... I don't know what not all of them have an animal, and that's not the basis for the actions of a lawyer for gender equality, so here at the beginning I have to say that this part is not in accordance with the law on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10547	Thank you. Answer, the esteemed Vishna Ljubice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10548	Let us, the Law on Gender Equality speaks exclusively of gender equality, into the location of our action and gender identity, so that we are given the basis of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and in the work in which you refer, we have talked about the birth identity, which has been introduced exclusively into the organic Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and is also found in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and we always refer to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10549	Thank you. Here I am calling upon the distinguished representative Gordan Sobol, president of the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. On 4 May of this year, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2015 in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure as a parent body. The Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report in question. In the context of its competence during the reporting period, the Advocate General for Gender Equality worked on a total of 2467 cases and, as she has already said, he kept himself on looking at previous reports of a trend in increasing the number of individual complaints. The complaints are filed by over 90% of the women. The most common is cases of direct discrimination, more than 92% of which remain mainly related to gender discrimination and beyond that only to over 90% and then to marital, family status, sexual orientation, birth identity. As in previous years, the most complaints have been received in the field of labour, employment, social security. Again, women complained almost 80% about sexual harassment at work, contracts for a certain period of time, discrimination on grounds of motherhood, family status, unequal wages and the like. This is essentially not surprising in view of the long-term trends in unemployment rates, birth-related segregation on the labour market, the increase in the number of employees based on a contract of work on a specific, more difficult accessibility of the contract on undefined work and, in particular, women and the pay gap that is above 10% and which is increased unfortunately in relation to the previous period. In Croatia, we have been saying this for years that we have not been able to implement measures that enable the harmonisation of family and professional obligations so that fathers should be encouraged to play a more active role in the years of development, in the formative years of child development. Namely, maternity leave and parental leave used only slightly more than 2%, 2.04% of men, while maternity or parental leave was used by only 1.7% of fathers. Sexual stereotypes in the field of parental care continue to be the biggest cause of the father’s complaint and on the other hand, the mother’s lack of sensitivity of professionals related to the domestic violence they were exposed to. The lawyer pointed out a encouraging circumstance, good co-operation with the police and the exceptional co-operation of the welfare centre that regularly respects the counsel's recommendations and therefore improve their work. In connection with cases of domestic Parterian violence, women remain mostly victims of domestic violence, over 64% of the injuries in the infringement proceedings. What worries is that there are still a number of complaints from citizens and citizens regarding non-recognition of certain forms of domestic violence, primarily when we talk about mental and economical by competent institutions, as well as non-application of a gender-sensitive approach to the processing of perpetrators and the protection of victims. Compared to last year, more than 100% increase in the number of victims' women in the criminal acts of domestic violence is evident, and what is particularly worrying is the trend of increasing the brutality of domestic violence itself. The lawyer also took steps to encourage judicial authorities to sanction homophobic hate speech based on sexual orientation and to encourage violence. As statistics, analysis and all research shows, women were overly exposed to discriminatory practice and victims of gender-related violence in the Ombudsman's reports, and last year they particularly dealt with sensitive social groups that are subject to multiple discrimination. So, basically based on gender but also on disability, nationality, social status and others, these are the risks of multiple discrimination exposed to women with disabilities, women in rural areas, members of national minorities especially Roma women, victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War and women in prostitution and in human trafficking. With regard to complaints from citizens in access to the exercise of their reproductive rights, except in individual cases, the Ombudsman followed the outcome of the inspection health supervision carried out in order to improve the health care of pregnant women, and also supported the recommendations of the UN Committee for the Elimination of Discrimination of Discrimination of Women in the area of reproductive rights. In the field of education, it advocates the integration of civic education, removal in the textbooks of the present stereotype on neglecting the importance of the role of father in raising children as well as stereotypes of so-called. men's or women's professions, the raising of the competence of classmates and classes for the implementation of the fourth module of health education, the use of the native sensitive language for professional qualifications, calling and professions in official documents and others. Promoting gender equality in the field of political participation remains a challenge for women to be involved in political power bodies. A low percentage of elected politicians in the last parliamentary elections 15% and about 18% at local level and women are still under-represented in areas where political and economic decisions are made. The debate, which followed, praised the report because it deals in an exhaustive and detailed way with gender equality issues and discrimination in all areas of the family, working relations through the media, education, sports, health care. In particular, the members of the Committee referred to the problems of large disproportionate rights in the field of maternity and parental leave, and with regard to the practice of granting parental care mainly to mothers. It has been warned of the practice of courts that generally make decisions that, after divorce proceedings, children are awarded to mothers in the highest percentage, thus continuing to contribute to the fact that imported prejudices continue to be generated and survived in our society. The question of the education of our judges has also been raised, and the highlighted problem of not having co-operation with the Judicial Academy is solely because of their policy to keep education judges from the system itself, not independent experts and experts. This highlights a positive example of the cooperation and openness of the Police Academy. It praised the interest and the years-long insistence of the Ombudsman and her pointing to the problems and discrimination that especially confronts women with disabilities. Furthermore, there is a particular problem of insufficient political participation of women at all levels and especially in the light of the upcoming local elections. The members of the committee pointed out a particularly negative echo of the Constitutional Court's decision just before last parliamentary elections and regarding the validity or invalidity of the list for the Assembly and the percentage of women on the lists as well as the non-compliance of reactions following parliamentary elections when it comes to state institutions. On the one hand, the Constitutional Court, Attorney General, on the other hand, the DORH. The Ombudsman also explained in the debate the way research subjects are selected and stressed that certain trends are always monitored over the years and thus sets out topics and areas that should be further explored and, based on the results of the research, create our policies both at national and local level. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, with the majority of votes 5 for and 3 abstentions, to reach the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2015 is accepted." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10551	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorneys and the committee on gender equality who may not have read this report could see that it contained the lawyer’s treatment of complaints against citizens and citizens based on gender, marital, family status, sexual orientations in particular in the field of work and employment, domestic violence, education, political participation and media. On the basis of those complaints, the Ombudsman also makes certain recommendations in the report. We could see that from year to year the largest number of remarks are actually going in that part of the employment and of course domestic violence, and that is the biggest problem as well as the work of the attorney but also the general gender equality. In view of the handling of the complaints carried out by the Ombudsman and the analysis, in the 2015 report in question, the Ombudsman set out 82 case descriptions and gave a total of 93 recommendations. As in previous years, as I have said, the most complaints are just coming from women, so more than 90% of these complaints, the basis of sexual discrimination, related to labour market discrimination, social security, then domestic violence and the area of justice. Most often women complained about sexual harassment at work, a contract for a certain period of time, which is also a long-standing problem, and most of the employees for a certain time are women, discrimination based on motherhood. Defeating data that women during pregnancy or after returning from maternity leave to work were almost 80 to 85% of the cases were thrown out of some form of discrimination, whether it was that they were assigned to a lower job, of course this job was also less paid, that they could not use an annual vacation, free days or sick leave. Then family status and unequal wages. The Ombudsman also states that the above is surprising in view of the long-standing trends related to the unemployment rate, and just when a major unemployment problem arises, especially when only the last two to three years the expansion of the number of unemployed in Croatia has just been the women's biggest labour market victims, then the birth-related segregation on the market, the increase in the number of employees based on the employment contract on a certain and increasing difficulty in the availability of work contracts on unspecified women. And it is certain that every woman who has accepted work is not because she wanted it but because she wanted to feed her family, her children, and that she would have the conditions and resources for her family’s basic existential needs. And for the last three years, as I mentioned, we have met with a high rate of unemployment growth. The complaints are primarily focused on the treatment of state bodies and other legal entities, not on individuals. In the field of labour and employment, women face discrimination on the labour market, there is a pay gap of almost 10%, and regardless of the level of education of women, they lose jobs more often than men. And we know that as a percentage of the highly educated inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, women make up the majority. It also warns of the pay gap present, a man in Croatia annually earns about 10,400 kuna grossly more than a woman. The Croatian labour market remains sexually segregated, with a total of 19 areas of activity for women being highly or significantly sub-represented in 8, mostly in construction, mining, water supply, waste management, etc. Financial activities and activities of insurance, health and social services and education areas where they are more represented but here it should be pointed out that the higher the level of decision-making, for example in the judiciary, the smaller the representation of women is. So the fact is that women are employed in those activities and in those responsibilities, leading and executives with less wages. And that's where the pay gap actually comes from. And they're more educated than men. It is also important to mention the major problem of economic violence against women, especially unemployed women who are also victims of domestic violence, and the unemployed are often left in a family with a bully because they have no other income to feed themselves and their children. And for this reason, I point out that it is very important to ratify the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women signed by the Republic of Croatia in January 2013 and thus assume the obligation of comprehensive protection of women against all forms of violence. The report also states that measures are still under-implemented in Croatia that allow the harmonisation of family and professional obligations. Last year, there was a slight increase in the number of fathers who used maternity and parental leave and according to the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance maternity and parental leave, only 2% of men were used while maternity and parental benefits were used by only 1.7% of fathers. And that's all because a male family member's father is better paid than a woman. And if we know that from the 6th month to the 12th month of a child's life, then we don't have a partial part of the birth benefit because of it and women more often almost 98% of the cases stay with the child at home. It is also noted that the experiences of other countries have shown that fathers use their right to parental leave when they are well paid even though certain quotas have been established. Sexual stereotypes in the field of parental care continue to be the most common reason for complaining about fathers while mothers point to the insensibility of professionals associated with the domestic violence they have been exposed to. It should also highlight the encouraging environment and good co-operation with the police, as we heard in the report of the Committee on Gender Equality and the exceptional co-operation of the social care centre that is very important. Domestic violence and violence against women and children remains a major problem as well as the fact that in cases of domestic violence, police regularly bring and retain the investigation of both spouses. In connection with sexual harassment, there is also a certain concern for victims of sexual harassment who give up reporting for fear of revenge. We heard the esteemed Ms. D.A. pointed out that the City of Zagreb has a very good system of resolving the problem of domestic violence and I personally can confirm it, but I think it is very important that every city and every county in the Republic react in the right way and that every woman, child, member of the family who is the victim of domestic violence is protected and allowed to be independent and among other things to leave the violent family. With regard to cases of domestic partner violence, women remain mostly victims of domestic violence, a number of complaints remain about non-recognition of certain forms of domestic violence. As we note the continuing decline in domestic violence, compared with the previous year, more than 100% of women victims in the criminal acts of domestic violence have been reported. The Ombudsman also conducted an interesting survey on women and men's representation and on gender equality in central information emissions broadcast on both HRT and commercial TVs to Novitv and RTL. The survey has shown that women are significantly sub-represented both as interlocutors and as exclusive guests on all three televisions but are mostly as journalists those who appear from the field. The representation of gender equality issues is almost negligible. So it's not even 1% in total of all three televisions. The Ombudsman states that sexual stereotypes and sexism remain in the media and that the media persistently use the female body as an object to attract attention to other content or to evaluate women solely by the basis of their appearance. And here, of course, we come to the question of the political representation of women both here in the Croatian Parliament and in the units of local self-government. Women are in charge of corporate economic duties, but also in political life they are well under-represented. So only 15% is elected representative to the Croatian Parliament. Surely the reason for this is also the delay in the application of the law to which all lists should be represented by 40% of the sub-represented sex. It's now unfortunately still a woman. But we can also read here in general relations and media, as well as all participants in public and political life, as well as in the part of the reaction that the Association is dealing with women's protection, so in some part and the Ombudsman for gender equality, often during, before and after pre-election campaigns, does not react to obvious discrimination based on sex. We also had this example in the presidential campaign. We had a woman who was a candidate, who was elected by the voter's will and as president of the Republic of Croatia, with a statement not later than the campaign by the lawyer for gender equality, there were no other reactions, especially during June and July when the election campaign was far from responding to gender discrimination. This time, the president of the Republic of Croatia comes from the ranks of HDZ, the Patriot coalition. At times, some candidates for mayors, mayors, will come from some other political parties for the most political duties. I don't think we should be politically divided in that part. The reaction must focus exclusively on gender discrimination, not on which political parties, from a political spectrum, a certain candidate comes. While on the other hand we have reactions, for example, there was a reaction which I also welcome, and I think it is good to react when the Free Dalmatia article is only signed with the initials "Beautiful Women Pass Through Pity". In the text of the article on the horrors of refugee fates which we have witnessed and actively Croatia has joined. The author considers it appropriate to write about the physical beauty of refugee women who have blinded their beauty despite the conditions they were forced to face. These are also topics that need to be responded to. And what is very important and I think that in the coming period should be more focused and gender defenders, but also Croatian Government, Croatian Parliament and all ministries is demographic policy, demographic renewal. Because in this report she is almost slightly represented on something smaller than one page. What is said, which is the fact that the figures show that the demographic image in the last year was extremely bad. Those who follow the area know that from the moment when the number of births and deaths was measured that just last year, Croatia experienced a demographic bottom, that a minimum number of children was born in the history of statistical measurement. Regarding women's unfavourable position in the Croatian labour market, the high unemployment of women, the failure to help and to react how certain institutions especially in the part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the competent ministries, if we know that in the last four years, the biggest problem with emigration was precisely a demographic decline, I think it was very necessary to react to that part because it was the responsibility of all of us, all of us, in public, social, political life and, of course, parallel work on the development of economic and demographic policy. I certainly want to point out here that by acting by reacting to demographic decline, but also by pointing to the help of women, working women to have adequate help both in local self-government units, cities and counties, that they know how and how their children will if their mothers have a place in kindergarten The school and the living room. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] And this is an important factor in the part to work on equalities between women in the labour market and the demographic restoration of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10553	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10554	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Mađarić had some things in his one long presentation that seemed to be affirmative, and in fact it was very strange to paint the attorney's work, especially in this last part of what he said in support that we might probably have the same scenario as we had with the vote for the lawyer who was, therefore, not a vote of confidence. When we talk about unemployment, I would ask that we stick to the facts, and these are very clear and verifiable in the State Department of Statistics and the Employment Office, which say that unemployment has not grown in the last two, three years, but has grown somewhere between 2009 and 2013, and afterwards we record a constant decline in unemployment. There's also a decline in women's unemployment. When we talk about employment then it is very clear and the State Statistics Institute has shown that we are growing employment in 2015, that this growth started in 2014 and that we also have positive effects in the employment of women, but not as we would expect. It's clear we have to work on it. I would be much more pleased with your pledoaje about this very long time if your government would give a positive opinion on two laws that were very important for the family benefits where we showed what you said we should increase the family benefits so that it would be more tempting for fathers to be on maternity leave. Your government gave a negative opinion on these laws. Therefore, you obviously have either two ways of thinking or to rule another and you have noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10555	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10556	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I don't know what moved you to advance your views and opinions and to reconsider something I didn't say. As far as unemployment is concerned, therefore your government will remain remembered for the two worst for the Croatian people from the independence of free Croatia, which is a demographic decline, these are facts, these are statistics, these are figures and other increases in unemployment. How do you present it? You changed the methodology and over 100,000 people moved out of Croatia. And you know what people? Those who were on the market, unemployed. Not those who work, who have secure incomes and who have what, how and how to feed their families. So these are the disastrous consequences of the government of SDP and Zoran Milanovic. And I really admire that you have a face after all on one subject that we should not be politically sharing because the figures show that we should be unique in that part, if not on some of the topics we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament, then on women's participation in the market of such political, economic life and especially on domestic violence. And don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Well, those 100,000 people who moved out know why they left Croatia. Because, thanks to your government, they couldn't find a job and your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10557	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10558	I am pleased that you spoke about the most important issues, economic violence against women and, that is, discrimination in the field of employment and labour. In the meantime, I just want to say I'm sorry. And your debate in general can be characterized as positive compared to the report, so I'm kind of sorry that you didn't even make it clear whether you support this report or not, or whether you're here to quote "naturally neutral" although I think it's something quite positive and from your debate, I would say so. I agree with you that the Istanbul Convention should be adopted as soon as possible, which is so known as the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women, because we have already adopted most of the measures imposed by the Convention. However, since 2014, what you and your colleague Miranda have already answered in his replica has already started with, and wonders why you do not support and insist on it, because from the whole ton of your debate and it results in supporting those measures especially towards women for employment, especially those who have been without a job for a long time which the government has done, as well as insisting on these measures, to free the employers of part of the contributions for the younger and 30 years among which many women are unemployed. Because every violence and every inequality stems from economic violence against women. And I repeat, I'm very glad that most of your debates have been spent on exactly that. And as for young people, moving young people, the truth is a big problem for us. Unfortunately, however, in the last six months, the number of lines towards Western Europe has increased and has not decreased.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10559	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10560	Bring out the numbers. As for the measures you are talking about, namely HDZ which is the strongest party in the Patriot coalition and the strongest and most numerous partner in the Croatian government has a number of demographic measures that we have highlighted in our programme and, of course, now within the resolution ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we are implementing. When you mention now the suggestions you have made here during this new parliamentary term, so I am justifiably wondering why you haven't done it before, at least you would have reduced the demographic decline when you think what you have proposed is so extremely good and quality. You had a minister, she's the current vice president of the Croatian Parliament who was just in this area of demographic reconstruction, why you didn't. Did you delimitate the birth benefits of 6+6? Why didn't you increase the compensation for the newborn child's equipment? Why didn't you cut taxes on children's food and children's supplies? The 4 lost years of the SDP government are the results of figures that say we experienced a demographic decline last year, the smallest number of babies in history since statistics were measured in the Republic of Croatia. Over a hundred thousand young families, young people with children have emigrated with a permanent intention to stay abroad because you have not granted them their fundamental human right and that is the right to work. And now you have the nerve to mention some of the bill you've now included in the parliamentary procedure. Well, you were four years old, which is why the voters told you they didn't want you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10561	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10562	Well, dear colleagues, I'd mostly agree with the debate you've brought here. And with the attitude that comes out of this debate, it seems to me that from this finding that was made in the report, it is necessary to support the Ombudsman in her efforts that what is not good and we see that the indicators are not good, that she should be corrected. However, what I have to admit to me seems a little bit in your debate, however, in some way without offense, is that if we are in politics and above all in politics because we are here in politics to start from ourselves and start from our own backyard, so in a narrow sense from the court of political parties that are in this House, we have defeated results after parliamentary elections on women's participation or participation in politics, and that unfortunately your party is just ahead of you. I remember, I was in the election at the seventh constituency. I didn't check your coalition list now, but I think there was only one woman. So until we change these things, until we start there, that's where we start, until we get that participation inside of us, within the parties we as women, we're very hard to talk about positive shifts in all other fields because we're the ones who decide this here. I'm proud, I'm in a party that has nine representatives at the club, 6 is a representative. I ask you what this Parliament would look like and what perhaps the overall policy of Croatia would look like if such participation were in this Parliament and in other parties, or in the total number. So my opinion is that we need to start from here, from ourselves, and we need to clean up in our own backyard, and I think that the discussions that are going in the direction of support for all of this that the attorney's office said are a little hypocritical in the way that you brought them out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10563	Replica response, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10564	The honourable MPs are neither you nor I here who will evaluate and judge who is hypocritical and who in what way is discussing. Often we have witnessed here in the Croatian Parliament that the truth is interpreted in a way that only true is what comes from the left side of the assembly. You must understand and respect the right that everyone has the possibility especially of us who are elected to the Croatian Parliament to express our views, opinions, views and that it is true that what they will ultimately judge and tell the voters as they have said in the elections that are right behind us. Those who know my political action and also the esteemed Ms. Attorney General is the third term of office I am a representative in the city assembly and chair of the Committee on Gender Equality, we have worked very closely together and have done a series of round tables, stands and other activities. I always point out that the responsibility for this is to the two largest political parties, namely HDZ and SDP, because we have so few women in both the Croatian Parliament and the local self-government units, in the representative bodies of cities and municipalities, and there is almost no difference between us. The HDZ representative is here 6, I think SDP 7, so we are somewhere alike, and in that part, the two largest political parties have failed and at the moment when it will change, women's representation here in the Croatian Parliament will change, but let in any case everything here is affirmative. I think domestic violence, employment, women's employment, motherhood, all the issues that are related to gender equality because of empty indicators don't deserve to be shared politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10565	Replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mađeric, therefore, in one of this section of yours, you have looked back, you have expressed regret that the Ombudsman spent practically only one page on the issues of demographic policy. But since you've been dealing with gender equality issues for a long time then you have to admit as well as I do that the whole report and most of the different chapters reported by the attorney, and here I am primarily thinking about the part relating to the position of women in the labour market, pregnant women, mothers, women's employment, segregation, etc. That's where we need to look for the causes of the poor demographic imagery. However, I only took into my hands this brief report where, in terms of demographic policy, the Ombudsman points out which areas should be better regulated, improved by law, population policy or family policy, and I don't know what would contribute to a better demographic picture of Croatia tomorrow. And that's not the first time she's said that. Therefore, in its recommendations, or what it considers, which are areas where it should be improved for better demographics, it also affects the state level but also affects the local level. So he says, he recommends a longer-term better-quality population policy, which primarily refers to solving housing issues, unemployment, better quality and more favourable accommodation opportunities for children working time for mangers, kindergartens, living rooms, flexibility of working time arrangements, a significant reduction in the working contract for a certain period of time. It also talks about the harmony of family professional life, about the need for fathers to use more parenting. So, and there goes all those measures that should be taken there. I'm sorry, it's been six months since this government. I'm sure you won't be waiting until the first year, but none of what you say you had in the program about demographic restoration, we haven't seen it in this House yet. In addition to the failure of the measure that is round, about 1000 euros for each child and we all know that it is not a measure or can be just one small measure in the future A better demographic picture. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10567	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10568	The demographic issue is a national, strategic and economic issue. And that is why my remark was in that part too, because I believe that we are all, in particular, the Ministry of the former, the Government, the Croatian Parliament and also the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the Attorney General, the Advocate General for the Children, that we should certainly all be loud and pointing to this big problem. What justifiably prevented me from being treated as guardians of the family and of all traditional values in this area where, as I said, half the page of the text points out that women in our society are treated as guardians of families and all traditional values and as the main support in solving the demographic crisis. And then it continues that women are discriminated against in more areas of life. Is that what we've been up to? I don't have that impression. Someone might have it. In my environment, it's not such an impression. In my environment is the view that a woman can be both successful and educated and employed and a mother. But we can't use those attitudes to those families and those women who have decided to dedicate their lives to children, so those who have decided to stay at home say that they are the guardians of the family and that they are the guardians of these traditional values, and those others are not. I think it's wrong. So I think it's wrong. And in that part was my criticism. What we're supposed to point out is a demographic downturn, a demographic disaster, a hundred billion spent kunas don't know what the SDP government's past was for. Over a hundred thousand evicted young families who sold the apartment, a house with a permanent desire for emigration and grants to their families while before the migration was second, went to a male family member, women and children stayed at home. And that's a national issue, and we must not share it politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10569	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to respect each other. Although we have differing opinions, we allow each other to talk. I'm begging you! Replicated representative Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10570	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleague Mađeric, here we will all agree that the issue of demographic renewal is one of the key problems, one of the priorities of this government, regardless of what the Ombudsman herself has done in her report, and on that one page, saying that the demographic picture is extremely bad. She was doing a report for 2015, so during the former government and what we heard today in these exhibitions that a variety of measures needed to be followed more to make the demographic picture better. I believe that perhaps you, too, are also colleagues in Hungary who should work in parallel on the development of economic and demographic policy and that this is one of the measures of these seven and a half thousand kunas for the newborn child and one minimum contribution to the development of demographic policy. And tell me in your presentation other than these measures for kindergartens, enhanced capacities, what do you think about how you treat women in rural areas and how we're going to keep people in these areas that everybody doesn't have what big cities have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10571	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10572	Thank you, dear representative Budimir. Well, you're absolutely right that demographic reconstruction depends on both economic and economic recovery and precisely because the past government stopped the investments, it recorded a constant decline in the economy, economic activity. Over 100,000 people have moved out, we have the highest unemployment rate in the history of the independent and free Republic of Croatia. And, of course, also demographic restoration and the fall of birth is one of the causes of such an extremely bad SDP policy, which unfortunately we have witnessed for the last four years. And I agree, and here's Mr. Vice President, I hope you'll agree with me that we should respect each other, respect the right to differing opinions and attitudes. Let us discuss things differently, and let us think differently, and that does not mean that we must offend one another and belittle one another. Because diversity is always good. Believe me, the one-brainer showed where it got us. So let me, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, have a business right to reply to it. Demographic reconstruction is particularly important in smaller cities and municipalities. While we are fighting in the city of Zagreb that in the third or fourth grade of primary school children have a living room, in islands or in small, smaller environments, municipalities and villages when you ask the child if you are going to the living room he looks at you miraculously because there is no such way as to care for children at all, that we are not talking about lack of kindergarten capacity, corporate kindergartens and a series of other problems that are directly and indirectly related to the fall of birth in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10573	Thank you. Next replica of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10574	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mađerić. There is an impression from your discussion that some topics have not been responded to, or mildly reacted. You yourself cited an example of the president, i.e. Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic's presidential campaign, which was discriminated against during the campaign, but also afterwards. It was now the candidate, or president of the Patriot coalition. It's going to be from another political option tomorrow, and I don't think we should share on that right or left. And then here to talk about 15% of elected MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The local elections are waiting for us every year, and this is an opportunity for all of us to fight together for the higher representation of women on the lists when it comes to local and all the next elections that are coming to us. When it comes to the Istanbul Convention, of course we believe that as soon as possible it should be ratified of course by the Republic of Croatia, and demographic reconstruction we have all been here so far convinced that the biggest problem of the Republic is that in this report we have about half the pages. But here I hope that in the next and every other report it will be on at least multiple pages or that we will all focus more on this problem together, both right and left.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10575	Replicate response, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10576	Thank you. Madam MPs, you've just defined political hypocrisy. So, the esteemed HNS representative, I'm sorry he's not here, called HDZ as the most responsible party because there's not enough, because in the Croatian Parliament we don't have enough representation of women, it's also the responsibility of the HDZ that we understand each other but on the other hand I haven't heard from her party that during the election and presidential campaign that they reacted to a series of sexist outbursts. But not just during the campaign, before and after. The current president's name continues to be named. So, when we had a male president then he was a gentleman by the last name he was, now he's called the president's name. It's sexism. It is also said in the media that it could be read during and before the election campaign that the country will be headed by a skirt. The marriage and family status of the candidate was highlighted while she was not yet a candidate. Not often times and times today many times both in the towers and in the media comment on the physical appearance, the physical appearance and the representative, the representative in the City Assembly, are generally a politician. And that's not what he's reacting to. And it's also political hypocrisy from politicians. Because we are the first ones to respond to such behavior at that time. And why didn't it bother me not to react during, during and after the campaign against the candidate's current gender-based president? For two reasons. The first reason I am a member of the HDZ is because no one should react. But for another reason because it was sexist outbursts only because the candidate and current president are women. That's what everybody had to react to. Both the left and the right and the institutions and the women's associations that fight and advocate women's equality, women's representation and women's rights to protect women's rights, and such is the esteemed lawyer. And I have the right to state my position and my criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10577	The speaker of the report is Višnja Ljubicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10578	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would refer to two things we have heard here today, related to sexism in the media and to the relationship with the candidate for President of the Republic of Croatia. The esteemed representative spoke all of what we said in the 2014 analysis, all examples are given and what needs to be made clear to the public but also to this respected House. So the Ombudsman's institution is not an executive authority, not a parliamentary authority, not a judicial body. We are an independent body, and we cannot possibly react in election campaigns. This is not only limited by our law, our powers, but is such a practice and all other democratic independent defence institutions that have existed for 200 years. If we had responded and called during the election campaigns, then we would have presented ourselves to the public as an independent body that votes or belongs to one candidate or another. What we always do in pre-election campaigns, whether it is parliamentary elections, local elections, presidential elections, Europarliamentary elections to give a public statement and to call for the responsibility of all public figures, politicians that in their rhetoric especially when tightening rhetoric before the elections themselves takes care of the constitutional principle of equality, of appropriate public speaking, of avoiding homophobic and sexist statements. I must say that the elections were called on 20 November 2014, after 6 days we gave a public statement where we had just spoken to the public and to all political parties on appropriate rhetoric, but in the same statement we gave an analysis of how the presidential candidate was treated, among other things to the president of the man because they were two representatives who went to the election race for the president of the state, where we stated that during the 7 months and on HRT and on certain portals we clearly pointed out the difference in the perception of women and men in politics and the inappropriate rhetoric when we talked about the "Barbar" affair when we talked about how voters would choose or not to choose soft Colinda and similar inappropriate statements. On January 12th, after the elections, we immediately gave a public statement where we congratulated the presidents of the state and where we gave a brief reference to the fact that the analysis of the presidential elections conducted with all the failures, the sexisms that took place during such a campaign would be processed in full analysis. It was also published since we have a publication deadline until 30 March 2015. I must say that we have never had a hemung since the public appearance when it came to sexism by politicians or officials, whether it was party presidents, vice-presidents of the government, presidents of the states, how sexism could be read through the presidential campaign we all stated. I must also point out the public calls made by certain women from public life who have asked that this non-female law institution is an institution that deals with gender equality to plead and to support one or another candidate in particular the female candidate. Also, I must say that on issues of sexism and on issues of support, reaction or non-reaction in public I personally had the opportunity to talk to the president of the state on two occasions in her office where we very clearly and loudly clarified both the attitude of the media and the attitude of rhetoric towards women who are highly positioned. Such rhetoric will always be and the question is whether it is convenient to react every time and whether this opens Pandora's box where certain things are banalized.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10579	Time's up. Followed by the HNS club, I apologize, the first replica of the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10580	Thank you. Well, I completely agree with you. In my presentation, I also pointed out that during the campaign, before and after the president, the current president, she was then a victim of discrimination solely based on sex. I didn't say it because it's a woman, it's based solely on sex, and we all had to react, all of us on the left, and the right, and the attorneys and, of course, the organizations that are fighting for women's human rights. While you had a situation on the other hand, and perhaps the lawyers could react during the election campaign just before the first round, some women, most of these female associations held an assembly of support to the then president, the former president of the Republic of Croatia, on January 8th. And at the press conference, they pointed out that they were giving him public support and that the candidate of the Patriot coalition and HDZ did not want to make any of those demands, remarks and programmes that they had because they were then coming from that backward right-wing spectrum of political parties supporting it. And I think that's where the ministries were supposed to react from which their work is being financed. And that's why I'm glad that you were neutral during the election campaign, which I'm glad but some associations that publicly supported one candidate, their funding programmes were not allowed to be politically classified. That's what I was saying, among other things, that we didn't have the same relationship and equal access to all candidates and discrimination on the basis of sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10581	The reply to the replica is the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10582	Dear MPs, I thank you for this and for the distinction of what civil society organisations can say in public space in relation to what the institutions of the Ombudsman can say. So we're talking about the date of the 8th of January, the elections were the 11th of January before only the presidential election finals independently of it and independently of public calls, on our public attacks we simply did not react and we hold that we were not placed on the deleted space, in a place where we did not, where we did not enter our powers, where we did not allow ourselves to be influenced in any way in order to send to the public the wrong message that we were... contrary to one or another candidate. Of course, rhetoric has been sharpened, and in our analysis, we've also pointed out this whole rhetoric with the names of people who have been sexist in public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10583	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10584	Dear Ombudsman, you said that you were very abstentioned in this campaign, which Mrs Mađeric spoke about, on the other hand, when there was a campaign for a referendum on marriage and the Law on referendum and campaign also implies equal rights for those who speak for and those who speak right, and also require that state institutions have one neutrality. Not only have you not been abstentioned, but you have actively sided with those who have declared that such a definition in the Constitution would be discriminatory and that you are certainly aware of the European Court of Human Rights ruling which clearly stated that the absence of homosexual marriages is not any discrimination. So you settled very openly on one side and on the other hand when Mrs Grabar Kitarovic was called a Barbie, then you kept silent because it was clear who you personally and the associations you were working with in those elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10585	The reply to the replica is the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10586	I would kindly ask you to take a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2014 and see that on three occasions we have publicly reacted not only through portals, but also through Croatian television when it was an affair of Barbies. I had a report back then in this home, it was the beginning of the 7th month where they asked me about it at the door of this House. So I'm very consistent here, and I have no fear or trouble getting out in public when it comes to actual facts or when we think it's our jurisdiction. I thank you for your question about the referendum. What we pointed out in 2013, so it's 2013 we're standing on it today. And if you read the Constitutional Court's decision well then you will see that the definition of marriage between a man and a woman who entered the Constitution in no way can degrade or put into an unfavourable position another form of family communities. In our public statement during 2013 we made it very clear that civil society organisations who want to call a referendum on this have the right and their... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not if we allow them but asked our opinion and we said that civil society organisations can work, speak, act if it enters the frameworks of the Associations Act and there was no problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The referendum was held. The only thing that part of civil society organisations were dissatisfied with the public statement by the Ombudsman for gender equality, the attorney general that we believe that by putting marriage into the constitutional definition of two categories more than ordinary laws where the Constitution itself says that marriage regulates, regulates legal provisions, puts all other communities in an unfavourable position. That's where we think about extramarital communities, straight communities, and we think about single-parent families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10587	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General, I thank you, in fact, for in this way putting a stop to the ground and trying to call you because of your alleged inaction. And I am glad that it is actually revealed that in this House some think that the world and time begin from themselves and that you could be interested in what happened during 2014 in the report itself by the attorneys of the analyses and communications that were made. And what I am also pleased with and that is yes, I am sorry that some colleagues and colleagues absolutely do not understand the Law on Gender Equality and then neither the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination because the actions of the Ombudsman also apply to the protection of a part of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. I personally regret it and, of course, everyone has a right to their own opinion. And just what I'm actually wondering, everyone here, I see you worried about what the presidential candidate had, and then the president didn't have anyone to go out with any kind of statement, and the attorney herself denied you that there were any statements and conversations, and no one thought it was an insult to a man, either to tell him that he had a cooked leg or a squid. You didn't think of that, you see we have two different arches. She continued to support the prosecutor for gender equality because she also managed to maintain the institution as an independent. And the fact that some have a problem with the fundamental misunderstanding of the laws that we have passed in this Croatian Parliament and not that it has brought one side and the other is not, but also the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, we have adopted a consensus in this House. At least obey those two laws or read them well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10589	The next debate on behalf of the HNS Club is the distinguished representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10590	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Attorneys and Associates. Here's the debate I've been having so far. It's been a little encouraging for me to step out of my prepared debate. It was mentioned earlier that those women who choose to be mothers and who choose to be home with children are condemned. I don't know if you're being directed, but a few months ago in a children's magazine called "The Right Choice" was published by an article entitled "The Aunt Mirica". And if you permit me, I would now like to read this article so that you can see how small children are instilled in values and in which they are essentially condemned by those parents who are working and who, unfortunately, are quite busy nowadays. So here I am going to give up on the prepared one and I just want to read you this article. So the title is Aunt Mirica. "A terrible thing happened. My mom's lost her smile on her face for days, I think. It's a hard time, it's sighing and it's working. There are several professions, several offices. And in the apartment, she made one, I think. He's wearing serious costumes and black shoes, straight heels. Smells like serious perfumes, her hair is seriously combed. The car is seriously neat and full of paper, folder and fat books. The bag is big and very serious. There's a computer in it other than the paper. Because of that computer, I can't touch the bag or touch it, right now he's yelling, and it's worth it. He wears a serious watch on his hand, everyone even takes a serious look at him and smokes. Is that it already? I have to hurry. And really, the real thing is, he's in a hurry all the time. He talks to me only seriously, and he's asking me questions, "Will you be late again?" Couldn't you have written that more accurately? Can you look? Should I punish you? You bought yourself glasses with serious frames and seriously, most seriously, it's very rare at home. One March afternoon, I asked Ivan, a classmate, which is your mother by her profession. He laid his shoulders down and said nothing, she's just a mom. I was wondering what a mom who doesn't look like at all. Ivan once invited me to his home as a guest. We should've exchanged a few pictures of the pokemon. That's when I met his two brothers, Philip and Dominic and Aunt Mirica, Ivan's mom. She met me with a smile, she baked us pancakes, she played with us monopoly, she showed us a roll forward on a big double bed, she took us to Jarun, she was hiding behind the big trees. I liked Aunt Mirica right away, spending her time in her son’s room, parks, and playgrounds instead of in the office. He's wearing happy, insecure colors. Smells like fresh roasted cakes. It has long hair in which are usually multicolored hairpins. In her yellow car are driven children, balls, roller skates, tennis rackets and other toys. There's always a purple backpack with juices, cookies and candy on it. She doesn't wear a watch and time doesn't care at all. I went to visit Aunt Mirica more and more often, often laughing, picking flowers, racing or playing basketball, listening to music driving in her yellow car. Fans for Ivan, Philip, and Dominic in table tennis tournaments, rules of imaginative hairstyles on their heads, late to the beginnings of theatre shows, read the most beautiful fairy tales of the world. All this time my serious mom was chasing her car out of the office at one end of town at the office on the other end of town. At school, we talked about moms. Even though it wasn't Mother's day, the teacher said that without any reason, we could make greetings for our moms and wish them something nice. I painted on my aunt Mirica, flowers, colorful hairs, balls, candy and one big, big smile. Then I wrote: “Dear Mom” again become unserious! I wished for her and myself to finish the jobs as soon as possible, close the offices and become a mother without interest as Aunt Mirica and let her smile on her face as soon as possible as possible, as Aunt Mirica never leaves." Aunt Mirica said that beautiful desires always come true. I guess mine will come true soon. I've been thinking these days about what I'll be when I grow up. I've thought and made up my mind. I'm just gonna be a mom. I'm going to go to my mom's high school after grade school, and if I study well, I'm going to go to PTA. I just need to ask myself where those schools are and what items are considered for enrolment. Here is an article published two months ago in a children’s magazine. And besides that article, when we watch little children’s textbooks, they usually have a lot of stereotypes in them. Men show up as doctors while women are nurses. Men are the ones who relate to education and knowledge while women are more focused on their own private sphere. I believe that gender equality should be learned from the smallest legs and from education itself, and as an example, we should also serve in this Croatian Assembly. We already mentioned today that only 15% of us are women. Even if my data were correct compared to last term, we dropped 10%. There were many more women. When you look at the portals here directly guilty and the media a little bit when there are articles about the discussions that are being conducted, which are good and almost every day we have a bunch of articles about what the representative put on, in which she came to the Croatian Parliament. I haven't noticed a single article yet about how our male colleagues are trained and whether they've matched their tie, belt and shoes. I think it's extremely sexist and we have to start from here, warn both in collaboration with both the media and everyone, just start working on gender equality as much as possible. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned. I would really like to commend her work because everything is present and is extremely active in all spheres of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10591	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10592	I'm glad you congratulated Mrs. Attorney General who responded and who therefore sought all the situations she could and was available and warned about gender inequality, especially not women's equality. And destroy prejudice and insist on applying the Constitution and the law. And I'm glad you pointed out this special example that is still a sweet mother like we could read in our textbook 15 years ago, so we thought it was past time and it seems again when our third-grade students were able to read our mother's test-making instructions. So, not to your father and mother. And the Constitution says that men and women are equal. Our family law in Article 3 states that women and men have equal rights in family and other public relations. That it is a duty for a marriage to apply the principle of solidarity and duty, and no one can give up such duties, and that is what you and your attorneys rightly stress, but it resents the law and the implementation of the Constitution, so it is mostly resented why it says that women are the guardians of the family and all the traditional values as if it were keeping the family, that is, the objection and traditional values were something negative. No, I don't. It is not negative but it is negative if such a burden or right is borne only by a woman and not by a man because both men and women are equally obliged to participate in family life. And therefore, the greater involvement of men in the family life that a woman is looking for, as well as a lawyer so that women can deal more with public affairs here is considered a sacrament. But even today, it's blocked by a cloak that's a woman's choice. Whose choice is it to do everything and the whole burden on it? Whose choice is that? It is only a choice of women who are not employed and who have no other choice, nor is it a choice and it is contrary to our law, a gender equality strategy, a Council of Europe strategy that speaks of equal participation of men and women in family life. It's a man's duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10593	Replicate response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10594	Now you've encouraged me to say another experience in my life. Since I was the youngest representative in this House, I started to deal with politics a long time ago, and I was really active in the evening, early in the morning, and I had an early morning, and I had a good question, so what do you need, can't you get a job somewhere I don't know about a cash register in Konzum or somewhere, what kind of family you're gonna have, who's gonna look after your kids, who's gonna be home to you and who's gonna take care of your household? It's simply that our entire society is acting on us as detiming to fight, to look for our own ability and to try to advance. And I really think that we should give maximum support to all women, to all young girls who have the ambition to be something with them and more than we can tell them their environment and their society predicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10595	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10596	Dear Mrs. Puh, the story you read downtown puts a child and a child's need for a mother. I hope so too for my father. And I consider this dramatic testimony to this child a great appeal to all of us, to enable both mothers and fathers to better coordinate professional and family life. I don't see discrimination here. I'm personally just as careful that you wouldn't be a serious dad with serious glasses running around in a hurry all the time. So, I just feel that this story is in itself not discriminatory but that it points to what we, which we need to take care of. What I object to also refer to Mrs. Antičević Marinović, so what I didn't get was an answer for why she was very careful about impartiality in a campaign and refused to speak, to go out on her own. I'm not talking about the statements she's issued before, and generally, etc., but at a crucial point where she didn't react. And in another campaign that was also supposed to be neutral, the one about the marriage referendum clearly and openly stood on one side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10597	Replica reply, distinguished representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10598	Well, here's the article I decided to draw out and point out for one single reason only, which is because the article is condemned to those women who want to work and to women who want to be active in society. So I am also extremely sorry that this article does not mention the father at all. So in all our textbooks and textbooks and everywhere, the father is the one who works and doesn't have one. I agree, of course, that both father and mother should participate in the development of the child and in raising the child, and I hope that they will contribute to this and that the laws will change as soon as possible and that both father and mother will be able to be equally at the maternity home and that they can be even as in Germany the example that both father and mother are at home. I don't know now whether a month or three months can be with a child. And here's what I'm telling you, I pointed out exactly because you mentioned earlier that you were condemning those women who decided to be mothers. I just wanted to point out that here's the judgment and obviously the women who want to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10599	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Budimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10600	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Puh, here I must also admit that this composition is written as a class teacher I did not take as discriminatory but rather as a lack of mother in the house and mother working. But I wouldn't want to talk about it. Today's topic is the prosecutor's report on gender equality. The part that I would like to agree with you and who I welcome is your reference to the statement of our colleagues media and colleagues from the media who do not follow our debates and our efforts and our stay in the assembly already here is the dress and competition which the representative is better trained. What I would like to look back at in that part, you probably didn't think to say, is that by example, most of them and those colleagues who are and who often report from this distinguished house are also dressed inappropriately sometimes. But in the end, nobody cares. It's only about MPs how much they pay, how much they stay in the assembly, what's most important to them is how they're dressed. But here, in this report, the lawyer who's the subject today, I think we should talk about how often women in their workplace and report this sexual abuse and some kind of discrimination. Is our police justice all over and the police sufficiently educated and whether they respond to every application and how often they dare to suffer from fear, loss of work, especially if it's some kind of private person.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10601	Replica reply, distinguished representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10602	Here, ma'am, I haven't noticed how dressed colleagues are here, journalists and others, because I'm simply not taught to follow people by how they are dressed and dressed, but simply more based on personality and what people say and do. And what I find a very big problem is the very relationship of the media to the Croatian Parliament itself, and especially with regard to these sexist types of articles and articles and contributions, and even when you watch a little television in general today, it has turned into something that a woman actually considers just as an object. And that I firmly claim that we are not just objects, that we can give very much and that we should also be doing more work and that we should recognize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10603	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the SDSS club, the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10604	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to welcome the D.A.'s office with my associates. I will, on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, state our position on this report and on certain phenomena identified in this report. First, we think the report was done in quality, professional terms, that a good analysis has been done across all segments of society and we will accept it anyway. I think it would be a good idea for the others to accept it, here's my suggestion that this report is accepted, not to go through the same phase that we went through when we didn't accept the attorney general's report because I don't think it's good for some kind of, I don't think this thing should be politicized, but it needs to be realisticized because it's an indicator of the situation in society. And this isn't a political thing, and it shouldn't have any political dimensions. So this report is acceptable to us and we will accept it. So a lot of things, a lot of segments you've worked here, 15 minutes isn't enough to look back at everything. I'll do a few things just to try to point out what we think is most interesting from our point of view. So you said that you were working on 2460 cases that referred to individual protection of citizens and citizens against discrimination and that is mostly an increase of 7.7% compared to the previous year. Which, of course, is not good. Most complaints refer to the field of labour and social security, over 50% and mainly to direct discrimination, meaning 90% of reports and cases refer to that fact. So, employment and work is a fundamental existential problem obviously in society today and you've handled it well. You said here that according to EUROSTAT, women represent 50% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia but are also represented by 58 and even 60% of the inactive population in the Republic of Croatia. It's some data that's actually going through this whole segment of analysis around the work and employment category. It would be good to see if we had another more detailed analysis of the unemployment of women to divide in regions to see where the highest unemployment is in which regions. I think this is a special state-of-the-art place. We need to go through western Slavonia and through Lika, through the Dalmatian hinterland, and see, in fact, that there are almost no women working anywhere. Unless there's gonna be some kind of private initiative in the small crafts of women, they don't have the space to find any more decent jobs at all. Of course, here I could ask a question would be very interesting for us minority representatives to see in the structure of women's unemployment that this structure of minority membership looks like but now it's not the basic thing to discuss. We see that women, the finding is perfectly correct, very difficult to get a job, and very easily lost. We also see that women after 50 years are unemployed because they go to that easier variant, which for society is actually a worse variant, they decide on some kind of pension. So they simply lose their will and lose hope that in 50 years and more they might start doing some kind of community service. Which, of course, is not a good thing. We see here that the Croatian labour market remains sexually segregated. So out of the 19 district activities of women are particularly or significantly sub-represented in 8 areas, so half of the social sphere is completely unreachable for women. The wages are enormously uneven, we see here data and I won't repeat them. But I would specifically refer to one thing and these are trends in the labour market. Increasing the number of work contracts to a certain time, it is a special category that is very interesting for us to discuss. We think it's a very dangerous category. So, why is she dangerous? Because it brings people who are employed for a certain period of time into a certain unequal position because they cannot organise quality life as other people who work indefinitely can. So I can't get credit, they're having a hard time dealing with the housing issue, which also raises the question of the demographic renewal of society. These are some kind of social uncertainty. Why do I say that? The fact is that we have a trend in employment growth for a certain time. In 2012, 175 thousand people were employed in Croatia, of which 160 were employed for a certain period of time. In 2015, out of 200 thousand employees 190 are in working status for a certain time. It means work from today to tomorrow. It means working without any guarantee of any quality planning of the future. Most of these and these forms of work are mostly women's consummations. So women are mostly employed for a certain time. If I told you the situation with me in Baranja at a serious firm, the mega company in the winery works for 15 years for a certain time. And for 15 years, her work is cut off, so she's back on the job, and then she's off again, so I think women have already learned, not her, but the whole team's already learned, but they've Googled that kind of status in the sky or on the ground, and they've simply reconciled to the fact that citizens are second-class workers compared to those who work in a normal way. I think that this kind of neoliberal model has become a very big social ballast for us right now, and in any case, a serious debate needs to be taken. It's interesting to explore here when you were talking about the perception of business women about possible barriers at work that 47% met the assessment, their own assessment based on looks rather than competences when they applied for some serious job, for serious advances in the service, estimated half of them based on looks rather than competence. That's not good. 35% met with questions about marital status and motherhood plans, which is also not good. We scare young people by the fact that they need to start a family. If you're gonna start a family and you're gonna be pregnant within a year, you're not gonna get that job and that job because it's gonna pay off because it's not a perspective. And then we wonder what's going on with our demographic degradation of society, the kind of policy we're running? Every fifth woman in Croatia asks if she plans to get pregnant when she tries to start a working relationship, does she plan on having a family? So it doesn't, it's relationships that have absolutely nothing to do with the question of the qualification of professional training of people looking for work. Not to talk about what kind of situation women live in companies, again, I quote an example of me, such as Bennett where women work exclusively, where you don't have employees of men and where women work in a way that and when they go to the bathroom, they refuse to do so from leisure time, from taking a break, that they don't have the right to be sick, where they work in a way that the hands are damaged by strong conditions and dangerous actions, etc. And they have to work because it's the only way to exist in that space, so it's the only thing that's being offered right now to women out there in that space. Here you have also determined problems and seen the difference between women's positions in rural areas, so all of us coming from rural areas can find the next thing to be punished twice because they live there and because as soon as they live there, they are less likely to get hired and because they live in an environment where it's perfectly normal for a woman to be a family bearer and that's the main role and employment is something that's not the primary thing. Women and prostitution according to your report is a very serious problem to talk about in public. And you're here to find that we should install in our legislation a Swedish model of criminalization so-called. The customer's prostitution service. I absolutely agree with you, I think it's a good finding and that we need to seriously consider the fact that this whole thing is properly criminalized. So there can be no answer just to the one who provides this type of service, I think it's far more responsible for the one who stimulates payment to such an act, and the one who stimulates it is not criminalized by our regulations. Therefore, I fully agree with you that a modern Swedish model of prevention should be applied in this matter. Here you also said that there is a problem of gender discrimination in sports. I have an interesting example here, a young woman from Baranja named Giovanni has decided to be a football judge. And she spent her entire young life devoted and then the family to the fact that she wanted to be a football judge. She went to those preparations, according to the regulations of their organisation, passed all the tests, received a six-month internship, tried 15 matches in the first county league, received a score of 8.5. And then there was a problem because she's a woman and I believe because her name is John, but it's not the primary thing, the primary thing is because she's a woman, she just couldn't move forward in that judicial hierarchy of theirs. And one young woman gave up the whole story and she simply said it's amazing that we live in a society that's because it's because it can't be a judge in some higher rank and all the references to it. And instead of growing up like that and being kind of proud of us. We're as a society inclined to eliminate it and say no she can't be. So these things aren't a rare phenomenon, I'm just one example from my surroundings listed. That's something he was supposed to remove. We must create this hygiene of society and we must not hide our heads as a foot in the sand from the problem, we must talk openly about the problems because as long as we don't put the problems on the table we won't solve them at first. For this reason, I also think that these reports and the edifices of the edifices should be accepted, as they very competently point to exactly the problems in society that need to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10605	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10606	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat, it's much less important, but it's also important because there are 40% of women on the political lists, or 100% women, if they are of quality. You guessed at one point when you said that women work, mostly in trade chains for 2000 kn, to ask them if, when they're hiring, they're planning to give birth, that they can't literally wear diapers, that they're marked. And these are the meanings of our sister, the mothers who work in those centers. And this is an inequality, and mainly in underdeveloped areas where women have no access to neither sport nor work, nor any other opportunities they can in the centres that are, large centres like the city of Zagreb and other means urban centres. You mention sports here, you mentioned the name of John and or John. In my area there are Serbs, patriots, and we do not ask whether John or Ivana is all difficult to live because they have no organised conditions at all to deal with sports, mostly women, because what is organized in smaller environments is more men have the right. Therefore, stressing my environment and surely yours is not well because in Croatia there are problems with national but these are minor things and Croatia is, I think, well advanced and it would not be good for you to insinuate in every speech some national impatience because as a representative of the Serbian national minority you are in this parliament here, you have not fallen from Mars. I'm sure the legislator gave you the opportunity to be here. So when we talk about women and equality, we need to look mainly at these non-urban areas, these areas that aren't developed, these women, these mothers, the trade chains, the employment where they're terrorized in the worst ways for 2,000 kunas, those some tycoons that now have profits, that have come to the companies that created this people, and they've come to know in what way and everyone is good for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10607	Next, the answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10608	Dear fellow Bull, you should now look after this phonogram to see what I said and compare what you tried to tell me in the replica. So I haven't mentioned for a moment the fact that John is Serbian. And don't tell me something I didn't say. I made it clear that because she's a woman, what's called Johanna had such a problem and she has it now. He's got it now. And you don't need to hide and stay away from that kind of problem. And the position of women in large companies is unfortunately what you said. Women are more like slaves, working for cheap money under very difficult conditions, and these are things we never had the courage to talk this publicly when we talk about problems in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10609	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10610	I'm glad your colleague recognized this report as well as last year, during the former government. So we have one absurd fact that somehow it is already read that the ruling will not support this report, which is very critical of gender equality when the former government led the responsibility and responsibility in this country. So we have a schizophrenic situation, and it's not good for the government, and now it's no good for the D.A. because she's spotted some things that the rulings hold not like that, so she's unfoundedly attacking the former government. And why is that? This is because non-election of the report is one way to replace the Ombudsman. And why would she change what you're saying? Because she's competent, because she's objective, because she didn't give up on this one, or that government, but she's found the problems we need to solve together here. So she totally stuck to Articles 19 and 20. A law on gender equality that speaks for her role. And I think we've had some serious difficulties when only during the former government in something similar so far. They didn't accept a report from the vacancy attorney. Of course, the European Commission has asked what your authority has against the Advocates. So that's exactly what it's all about, the whole report, and you've spoken in detail about this situation that the D.A. finds. So he's saying what should be promoted to make men and women less exploited at work, to commit more and more together, to families together, to children. What's the problem? But apparently, she resents the lawyer finding out that the woman is still considered a guardian of the family and all the traditional values, and she sees the problem because she is less involved in it. And that's why women are harder to hire, they're at worse jobs. And indeed a woman who wants to be celebrated should not be celebrated, she should only be given equality. Because whenever a woman is celebrated, she's in a subordinate position. Today the women of the 21st century are slaves in these trade chains and the state is silent and calmly looking at it. And we've got a whole Here's what I'm gonna say to the damages and the former authorities that she didn't have the courage to stand up to the powers and that's what we need. [[Intruder: Time.]] And there is no luck until we get caught up in it together to see how they will look differently then also about inspections and other things when the parties in the Assembly agree that this is an unbearable situation for women, for the Croatian family.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10611	The answer to the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10612	So at times, it was completely illogical, completely illogical for me to discuss mostly some reports from the previous period in the last six months, which is the period of your authority, so when you were in power. Reporters are also quite realistic, even critical. And now instead of evaluating it, we find that because these report applicants did it professionally and found that you did not reduce some trends at the time of your term but even increased here, here, they say that 7.7% of complaints have increased. We're going to say now because it's the person who found that increase and we're not talking about the measure of things. Why this increase occurred and why it happened in your term, and this thing is so rather illogical to me, and I don't understand why it had to be, why it was with a public defender who was completely realistic about what the situation is but not in 2016 when this power is now but during your term of office. We will also obviously pass through this report that was very good at analyzing social deviations during the period when you were in power and I don't understand why these people were unprofessional and why their report should then be rejected when it's logical to talk about the causes rather than what's been established in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10613	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10614	Croatians and Croats, vice president, colleagues and colleagues. On this day we progress more and more, of course, this one, I will support my colleague and Milet and especially Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic, a colleague of course, and I will read here one is also not a fairy tale but a story from the life of one of the employees from a large chain of commerce who has been suffering for years and now she's finished in psychiatry. I'll read the part so long as the minute gets here. "Greetings from dear colleagues and colleagues! My name is from Vinkovci, some of them know me or maybe they've heard of me, but that's not so important because this is the way I talk to people who know me, I work here and there, for 14 years now, and now, after all this time on my back, there's a broken hook. I know that many of us suffer as I suffered until the drop spilled the glass that brought me into this state that I am currently in. I've been silent and knowingly doing my job with love for years. And now that I've finally spoken and told my controller that I don't want to die for him or lose my mind because I'm already punished enough by working for him, the zealous controller, with the help of my manager, gave it to the director who made me a target for the cutout. Strong threats in fines for every little thing, taking money to workers from any minimum wage, doing jobs that are not listed in the contract of work, or we are offered changes to the contract of work. In doing so, I am thinking of introducing a roasting stove in shops, which is why we have to come to work 90 minutes early to offer fresh products to customers after the sale is opened and we will not be paid for it. Although this is part of overtime that must be paid legally. Money fines are charged without a solution or decisions imposed on fines, which only fills our employers' pockets. I felt and suffered for my children and their education, which was the main reason I spent so much time there. I must say, for the last two years, I've received 13 salaries paid by hand. I won the last one in February of this year, so it can be concluded that I am obviously paid for my hard work. I ask those and myself who get part of the salary on our hands, what is our pension because there will come a time when age will ask and where is youth and tax evasion is also a criminal offence if that part of the salary is not paid legally. I got a phone call that Thursday. Time. I'm gonna hand this over to our attorney general for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10615	The next replica, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, who wanted the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10616	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Croats, Serbs, Czechs, Slovaks, Italians, Hungarians, Jews, Germans, Austrians, Ukrainians, Russians, Bosniaks, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlasi, Albanians and other citizens of the Republic of Macedonia who are its citizens. Paragraph 7 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured because MP Culej in his opening statement welcomed only one of the nations represented in the Croatian Parliament whose citizens represented and otherwise used to greet other MPs and I have the impression that an article of the Rules of Procedure was injured, I will leave you with a discretionary assessment of whether this happened. Article 7 is an oath.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10617	He was going to say hello to Mila Horvat, so he did, no. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10618	I thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Horvat, in part of your debate, you were talking about the problem of women in rural areas. I usually think that we're neglecting actually all together as a society that part when it comes to the equal position of women and men and in our rural environments. It's kind of like the occasion to the occasion just from some traditional customs, a celebration and something like that we look back on. And I would have just warned a few days ago a preliminary report of a study was published where it spoke of the shocking attitudes of our young people related to violence in partnership relationships and in reports from the meeting a sentence was passed which the truth later no one went to further analyze. Which most women say in rural areas think a man must have the last word. So, one extremely conservative traditional understanding of the position and role of women in society primarily when I talk about rural environments, over 80% and slightly more territory of Croatia belongs to rural areas and recently on one of our television homes we have had the opportunity to watch an attachment from one place near Bjelovar where one parishioner works with premarital, lecture on the role of men and women and where he literally has in writing not only talks about how a man is in charge of the house, how the woman who has to listen to him, who has to suffer. And then it spices with the fact that she must always be ready in a double bed for her husband no matter how she felt at that time. I'm saying this because these are the attitudes that are obviously in one part, at least in one part of our rural environments are prevailing and I think that's something we should be worried about here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10619	The answer to the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10620	My fellow Sobol, every middle has its own tradition and doesn't need to be around it, it doesn't need to be such a black-and-white thing. Maybe in some places some women like men to have the last word, I don't know. But it's a lot more serious to me that in these rural areas young people, especially young women don't have a chance at work. And then when you have a 48-euro plane line from Klisa to London and in two hours they go to Ireland and Monday they start working, they get 11 euros an hour, every Friday they get paid, and they get a seven-day accommodation, or some kind of space to start life. And they're going there. Because let's go through space, I said West Slavonia, go around Voćin, go around Slatina, and see what would keep those people there, whether they were men, whether they were women. The fact is, they have no basis for decent life on any element. They don't have a job, they don't have a school, they don't have a kindergarten. I don't know if they have a police station. So that's what we need to talk about. And whether it's the last one in a man's house or a woman's house it's an individual thing, so let each of you arrange it, let everyone do it the way it suits him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10621	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HSS club, HDS's distinguished representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10622	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament with his associates, the esteemed attorneys with their co-workers and fellow MPs. I signed up for this debate today on behalf of the club without consulting my coalition club partners, so I'm asking them if I could make some points that they don't share to realize that it's really my position and that it's not necessarily a colleague from the HSS. The other thing I want to tell you at first is that during this debate, I have changed the concept of my presentation four times. Yeah, four times. Actually, I was thinking about the essence of this topic, but it's become a question of whether we're going to support this report or not. I don't normally think it's important whether we support this report and all the others we've supported or not and that in no way can it be a criterion without assessing someone's work as good or not. Because very often these reports are both typed and reported or submitted by the report are simply defined in a way by the methodology and criteria given to them by someone else. And that's why I don't find them guilty if that term can be used at all. And I wanted to talk about actually the criteria of equality and what that means. The second thing that's become eclative here is through this report to see the relationship between the former and the current authorities, and that's less important than the fact, than the measure of things. So it seemed different as the syntagms of a family guard's wife as if it were necessarily bad and something like that. A summary of the report if I were to evaluate it methodologically, that's good. Analysis in areas and there is a lot to cover. However, in order to understand my views, I must immediately tell you how I see and experience a woman, you know. The very fact that equality committees are formed, says gender equality. But it actually comes down to the equality of women is in itself a bad fact. I simply don't understand that we can live and that there are people who look at women and men in different ways. It's understandable in itself, everyone in their roles that is determined if you want to be biologically, sociologically, psychologically, because we're not the same. That doesn't mean men are better. I think, however, that a woman is more valuable than a man, through history it has been shown, and if you want the tragedy of the people happened just as women were killed. Demographic problems occurred primarily when women were disfigured. It has indeed happened that physical strength, and even today it has this, is a fact that often assumes the relationship between what is a catastrophic, physical use of force, the coercion that a man objectively has more physical strength is a matter of crime or offense. It's a question of our understanding of this equality. And it's interesting that we've just listed a number of reasons why women feel worse, discriminated against if you want. But I wonder who we're defending them from. From who? Are we really defending them from men or even women who don't respect themselves enough or don't appreciate other women? I find the basic problem in the fact that women's dignity is getting more and more endangered today, and that if you want to do it in a certain way, men are guilty of it. Not because they should be traditionalists in terms of women's protection but they definitely stopped thinking about it if you want their friends, mothers, sisters, and I say not as much as in certain situations worth beings and more capable of beings than men. When you're looking through history, men have gone to the risk-taking endeavors where they were killed, women have kept themselves safe. That's not an accident. I agree with the fact that never a woman, as strange as she looks, was in a worse position than she is today. You can see all the research on mental disorders is about a large number of increases in depression and anxiety-depressive conditions. Anxiety depression is a milder form of depression and inner fear. In this relationship men and women women have always been compared to 2:1, two women and one man. This relationship has increased in recent decades. And now a lot of people are saying that this relationship is 3 and somewhere and 4:1. All these researches, you know where they were done? In a civilized world. A woman has never been thrown out of her mind with as many demands as she has today. From the requirement to be a good mother, to look nice, to do what resulted in almost exhausted psychological and physical mechanisms that keep her coherent. And if we don't understand and this civilization doesn't realize that our goal is to try and change that relationship then I assure you there is no law that will regulate it. There are laws that must apply to women and men alike. And because of all of this, I'm not going to go in because there are too many chapters and everyone should talk about these researches, and I see the bad part in this report because in that part it's used with some general conclusions and there's no clear picture of this research as it's done. Well, then it's about women's bribery. I'd like to ask you to document that. I work at the hospital, and no nurse has less salary than a medical technician. No doctor has a lower salary than a doctor. ... Where is it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I'd like to know where it's not like that. In private? Then it's a different thing, then we have to change the legislation. But on the other hand, we have to face it or we're going to choose the market as the only relationship regulator, or we're going to take care of man's dignity, so the woman's dignity. We accepted a market that only regulates, and I'll tell you that as a young doctor in the '80s when it was unimaginable and then a young woman came to me who was in a different condition and then it was unimaginable to give it to her, here's a colleague, Penic, who will know when you're convinced that she's working. It was not necessary to give that woman the assurance that she was able to work. I gave and had serious problems. And that's for the state firm. Because they said she's gonna have a baby now so she's gonna go on maternity leave and we're not gonna have anyone to work with us. That's the facts. And now we've decided on a private property that's much more rigorous where the market regulates everything and you can't expect a privateer who thinks about taking a woman to work. Three kids, if she wants it or not, it's five, six years off from work. And we have to decide what we want. We can't live in the company of these schizophrenic messages. These are messages that are simply contradicted to such an extent that we cannot achieve new goals. I agree that women must be not equal, they are equal, but the market simply does not recognise it as a fact. If we don't realize that's what this is about, then it's too scary. And we have to decide what we want. This isn't really a question of past authority or this authority, this is a question of the future. Research into the perception of employers, when I hear the word perception, then my hair rises on my head. We're building our attitudes on perceptions. Perception is observed. The observation could be guilty. Perception is when at dusk you see the hive and you think it's human or you think it's a bear and it's an illusion, perception can be an illusion. We're researching all down to perceptions, and even that happens in exact sciences. Perception of what? Perceptions of conjecture, and then we draw conclusions from that. So in this part, I would prefer it much more if you had thought about this report not in these defined criteria that come, even if they come from the EU, the European Commission says that in this House we are a society that wants another value system. And within that other value system, we can realize these facts that matter to us. Within the framework of the one we've accepted, and even the legal laws are to change, the laws may be, Mrs. Ingrid says everything is by law, adhere to the law. We all know that the law can be such that it regulates one problem and that it is immoral. The laws must include elements of morality. And because of that, I won't be long and I have everything looking like a minute, I don't know what to say about this report? I don't mean to say that you did it wrong, but it seems to me that we need to think about how to generally evaluate the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10623	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one is President Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10624	Well, I think you colleagues in your debate have raised big questions and there are a lot of things that are hard to disagree on. First you start with that, and that's true, we're not, we're equal, but we're not the same. The same man, the woman is not biologically the same, but those differences don't matter. And the woman is the only creator of a new life for now, but unfortunately the biology of a woman throughout history has often been her destiny and not good. Instead of being her advantage. That's what you're talking about. And that today's woman, and I agree with you here, is that it's extremely difficult, why? Because it's still breaking into the world of work very hard, at the very beginning of employment it's faced, you'll also see from the reports about it you're telling yourself if it's going to give birth. So, and bear the burden of the whole family still, still. And here are the new demands ahead of her. And that's what we're talking about, and that's what the D.A. is talking about, and that's what our laws are talking about. But you rightly warn that it is also a constitutional category, and we have opted for freedom of the market. It is true, however, and unfortunately what you are saying in practice is so, but if they and employers, therefore the free market is not a golden calf that is on the market of human values, they are particularly protected and it is as the highest constitutional values. However, since they have the economic power not to make men and women subject to work more than human resources, so man is reduced to adjectives and resource is important, resource. And wherever there's resources, there's waste. That's the philosophy that you're talking about, that neoliberalism that made a human resource out of man so that he can do whatever he wants. But that, despite what we have identified on the free market, human values must not be on the market, they are particularly protected. This is also the report when it says exactly what needs to be protected by equality between man and woman. It points to stereotypes that are sometimes our own faults and that reveal, expose, and say what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10625	Replication response
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10626	I'm glad you mentioned a man and a woman several times, not just a woman. That's the essence of the problem, the essence of the problem. But things have been set up, I said I didn't know who to defend women from. I think women have the wrong idea of how to solve this equality because they put themselves in a position to be given a different position by law. It's the same position on the market, both men and women. That's where we have to fight. The problem with sexism you're talking about, I don't know what sexism is anymore. I'd be happy to tell you, I'm asking you to forgive me if you look nice. I don't know if it's sexism. And let's become people... It's okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's try to protect dignity. It would take me too far if you tried, but this is really a topic that, I would tell you civilization. She's no longer a question of this report. I'm telling you I don't think anything bad about that report, it's within the criteria set, because they said it's like that and you have to do statistics on it now and then. That's what they'd do anyway. In those frames it's good, in those frames it's good. Here is the fundamental question of the value system on which it was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10627	The next replica is the esteemed representative Štefanija Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10628	Dear Deputy President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality, the esteemed fellow parliamentary representative, here you have asked me to report on the replica because you have opened topics as Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic says some who are somehow closer to us, who have awakened people who are dealing with politics of a human virtue to begin to think differently about the equality of men and women. When you look at the report, all those figures that are listed, all these reasons that are listed are terrible. We can't believe that they exist, that they happen, but unfortunately they happen today in society. When you see out of all these system coups, from losing a job and everything where there is simply no means for a decent life, more and more labour market women are present because they are paid very little. In the economy when you look and mate women who work in the economy their maximum income, the basic salary that is after the retirement base is 2400 kn. She gets it 20 years at the store. Other economic branches are not exactly left for us and textiles what exists are extremely minimal wages. When you compare a woman with a middle professional in the public sector she... 100% already, it has more rights because normal and union labour contracts have taken care of and protected those employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what about those women who work in shops in all of Croatia where the biggest mass is? They're private employers, they've got as much as they want. And we, as a society and as individuals, because in everyday life we enter these markets, in these shops, we see these women every day, we know, some of them have confided, when she comes early from work, goes from work, never knows when she will go, does she sleep, does she have a day off, what she has with her children, where there is no kindergarten for the afternoon, what she does. So we have a lot of space to ask ourselves how to pull our fellow citizens back to live better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10629	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10630	Dear colleague Dodig, I agree with you and I am very pleased that you have opened this topic of the dignity of a human person that I consider essential in respecting every person and respecting gender equality. I also agree with Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinović, so I really think she touched the important issue. What I was talking about in the last line, and that's about coordinating family and professional life. I just don't want it to be used in rhetoric as a hard fate for women, meaning she was sentenced to motherhood, then motherhood puts herself in the context of some kind of difficult fate. So most women want to be a mother and we don't have to put it on, I'm not saying that you put it on, but here's just a note in some kind of negative context. Equally when you were talking about differences between men and women, there are natural differences. For example, in a report by the Advocate General on page 25, 27, it is a problem that women on average choose different professions from men. Look, that's no problem for me, I'll tell you right now. So I really don't mind that more men want to be auto mechanics than women. And I really think it's past the time of that radical feminism where the women with the hammer came out of the mine back in the '80s. Of course, they, those women who want an interest, have the same opportunities as men. That's what we have to fight for. But here we have 90% of judges in the Republic of Croatia, so to tell you the truth, it's not a problem for me. It's no problem that most teachers are female teachers. Of course they'll be easier to reconcile their family life and professional than to be auto mechanics who need to work, I don't know until four or five hours. So what I'm saying is if there are any differences, natural, biological differences between men and women, we don't have to pretend like they don't exist. Therefore, we should give everyone equal opportunities rather than force everyone rather than be equal. They should be equal legal not equal because they're equal because they're not equal and they're not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10631	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10632	It's absolutely certain that this is on the trail of what I'm talking about as well as what all of this is what you're saying is about what I'm talking about. But it's hard, hard to find that right measure. It's hard because of the circumstances we've been under. Man is indeed, I say man, and here I think of man and woman. He became a pendant of his work ability. A pendant of his work ability. The dignity of individuals has been destroyed. And that's how a woman's dignity was destroyed. Try a little ground floor view. How long will you find a young man on the street today who'll be on the street to honor his wife? It used to be a normal fact. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, I don't want you to defend me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, but either way, we're in a vicious circle, so we'll talk about whether the report is good or not. The thing is much deeper, much deeper. And I think that no matter how small a nation we are, we are few that we represent nothing great in the world, but we can at least have attitudes that are more human, that are fairer, and that way here we spread that idea of equality. No one is normal against equality, but I don't think equality will be solved by what you're legally going to say, 40% must be the woman in the Parliament. You can't ban the fact now that there are over 70% of women and 30% of men in medical school. Do you need a law on the protection of men? It's just such a fact, they learn better, they take exams and they get into college. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Where possible, they are, you know. But why would she be a headmistress if she had a better ability? ... Oh, yeah, she can't be the principal because she's a woman, but because she's a good doctor and a good organizer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10633	Time. Here's a word from the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10634	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Dodig! You have raised the question of determining gender equality criteria which we consider to be governed by international European documents and national legislation. What you mentioned is that we all ask ourselves here, or you wonder who we defend from or what we defend from women, from women or men themselves. We as an institution, not as a civil society, but as a state institution that has the authority to oversee the state institutions of the local community and legal persons, so all of these corporations you're talking about on the labour market is to insist on the uniform criteria that we didn't invent, which we didn't invent yesterday, which Croatia didn't invent but accepted in 2006 and 2008 when I was in Brussels in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I was working on criteria for Croatia's accession, and we here have to implement them. We think, think, respect complaints of citizens, citizens, follow national statistics, Eurostat, watch trends that arise, every year on the labour market. You read the report here, a summary of 30 pages, given the report that has 300 pages. Our rules are to unite in the 30 pages and give a summary of everything that is said, investigated in the full report. The perceptions of employers you mentioned are only a segment of the European 350,000-euro project that we received in the 28-nation competition and several institutions that have applied in this area that we are proud of. Because today I am not here with 11 members, my employees who have worked on it with additional work from parties that work because of a very small budget and that we would be present and that we would be visible not only in the city of Zagreb, not only in the Flower Square where we are sitting but at all levels and districts, 21 counties. You're saying we're an institution dealing with women's issues and the title itself says it's an institution of gender equality. Of course, the public gets the impression that we are dealing with women because they complain to us or national statistics are in a subordinate, sub-represented, discriminatory non-equal, unfavourable position in almost two-thirds of men versus men. I believe this report is not summed up, it's not a complete report, it can't be. They can't even be that kind of expectations from us. We seek multidisciplinaryly with as much data as possible and an analysis of the substantiating areas that have been given to us in jurisdiction, unlike the resorient state institutions that do such analyses, do such reports in their respective areas. That's why we're letting something spread and more and stronger and different explain itself. If we're talking about the fact that you're surprised that underpaid women are on the labour market and that you don't know how such information, so that's not our statistics, it's national statistics, as the Croatian Employment Service says, that we have the most women in the period of 25-29 years regardless of the degree of expertise. Why? Because it's a fertilized period of women. A woman when an employer will not receive them or put them for a certain time or fire them as he gave them based on our research, ours, along with RODA 2012. No one did such research on a 1000-mother sample where 55.3% of women were fired because of a labor contract or as a technological surplus because they were mothers. So this is something where we, from one place, want to point out to state institutions especially those who create power and know who it is, the government and you here in Parliament when you have the ability to raise your voice, raise your hand and create, approve to amend such laws for the benefit of each other. I can talk about the sub-representation of men on the labour market if you will as cleaners, cashiers, breeders, uncles in kindergartens etc. And what you were saying about is that there are not enough highly educated or well-skilled women in the health care system, I have to say that today we have 60% of highly educated women, over 70% of them are enrolled in medical schools, but we have directors, bosses, gynological departments where they deal exclusively with births. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10635	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10636	I can see that I'm going to replicate multiple times, so you're going to answer but fine. So, you've explained the framework of your work. That's fine, but having a frame doesn't mean you're some kind of machine or computer that just works under those rules right now. You with your personality and your assessments and your office makes an assessment of what you will do, which you will not, to which you will pay more attention, to which you will pay less attention. I'm asking a question, is there a need for research on women's representation on the cultures and monuments of the city of Zagreb, page 279, 280, that is your assessment that this is necessary even though it is historic periods that I don't suppose we can influence anymore. You'll be surprised that 28% of the sculptures that show women, portrays a woman as a mother which I don't know badly or I don't know what, so your assessment is that you want to do such research, spend your financial resources and time potential on it, or you won't. So you can't say that this is meant by some kind of European law that you have to adhere to. You judge for yourself what money and your time will be spent on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10637	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10638	I have to say, our financial budget isn't like that so we can spend money. So we're doing this thing within pay and that's our extra job. Whether or not we will conduct such research and analysis depends on cooperation with civil society organisations. This was primarily about the Association of Sixincans who sought the rise and patronage of the president and us for the rise of the monuments to all women laundry of the city of Zagreb, and we believe that this is an exceptional opportunity to pay attention to women who have marked our history. So I have to say that this circulatory letter that you read and occasionally go out with such attitudes is simply the twisting of those facts and facts that exist, which is that according to the Law on Gender Equality, we are an institution that needs to conduct research and analysis. We don't have financial resources for that, we do it within our salaries with the work of working with the parties because we're the only one who's authorized to do it. And we might as well not do that kind of research. Moreover, today the question of women’s representation in public space in cultural life is something that we do not do, we do not deal with enough culture, and what education is shown to us today’s events. So if you're talking about whether or not it's necessary to analyze monuments, it is. And monuments and squares and cities because we have women chemists, women scientists, historians, women who have marked history and have the right to be bearers of markets, monuments and to be part of our public and cultural life. Unfortunately, they're marginalized. About the fact that they are exclusively depicted as mothers we value it if you want to impute it not to suggest it, but only to show or indicate that certain stereotypes are re-perpetuated that the woman is exclusively a mother. She can be both a mother and a worker and a scientist and all that she has personally identified herself for. It's her right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10639	Thank you. Here's a lot of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10640	... that you received data from the Croatian Statistics Institute. [[Specially enabled.]] I've never even seen that data, and it keeps repeating itself as a selection of information. And that's the point I'm talking about. Don't feel guilty, I'm not attacking you, but I've written hundreds of professional, scientific papers, so I know well that often the results depend on how you design research itself. Let's not put it as a holy letter. The results can be very, very different. Oh, God, if we had a relationship with women the way I'd like it to be, we wouldn't need this commission. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10641	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10642	Thank you. If we can't trust the national institutions, the Croatian Statistics Institute, which has been obliged since 2006 to represent gender-class statistics, because by 2006, until we had serious negotiations with the EU, has not even classified wages in the private or state or public sector, which has been gender-classified and has not been able to establish a trend of segregation horizontally or vertically towards activities, according to earnings, according to everything that the EU or the countries of European democracy have done many years before. So, to us, these are extremely credible data. And if, in the very heart of Parliament, we show no confidence in the state institutions what we can expect from citizens and citizens of this country. An increase of 8%. The Ombudsman's institution compared to last year shows me not perhaps an increase in the problem, it is in the gray zone and certainly much larger, but shows that the Ombudsman's institution was present in public and that it was going to the field even though there is no official vehicle, although it has the smallest budget, although it has the least employees. And I'm probably not a good mother because I have twins who stay home while their mother goes to the field to do something at national level for what this Parliament has authorized her to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10643	Here's the initiative of a lot of MPs to finish the session now, so tomorrow morning we can continue in front of the TV cameras. Session interrupted at 17.48 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10644	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! We can take our seats and we will continue with the point with which we started yesterday and this is the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2015. On behalf of the SDP Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Sandra Krpan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10645	Your Honor. Lawyers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club accepts a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2015. We would like to thank the Ombudsman and her team Višnja Ljubicic for her overall work in 2015. 2467 subjects, 7 independent research, 9 analysis, 2 memos on cooperation, participation and obtaining European projects deserve our full attention. The area of attorney's work where she acts is very wide. It is about suppressing discrimination based on sex, marital and family status, pregnancy, motherhood, sexual orientation and birth identity. There is no topic in society I would dare say which cannot be observed from the position of gender equality. What can we conclude when we read the full account? That women in Croatia are in a far more unequal position than men. But it's nothing new. Croatian society is traditionally patriarchal, stereotypes about male female relationships are present in school textbooks, in the media everything screams out of sex stereotypes and sexisms where the female body is exclusively used as a object of attention. Women on TV don't speak as conversants and exclusive guests. We get the right to vote as anonymous persons when we have to make a statement. I hope that such a devastating picture as today's government in our Parliament won't repeat it in the recent elections. There are 15% of us in the Parliament and we're missing another 35 to make the figure equal, 50%. Never in Croatia, as in recent days, as yesterday did not talk about education, education has become a top topic. More than ever, we need both humanism and tolerance so we don't blush because of the homo... the attitudes of young people who have shown the research they've done. Therefore, civic education and health education must be compulsory teaching subjects. It is important to adopt the Istanbul Convention as soon as possible. It is about the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence because there is a clear trend in brutalisation of domestic violence. In 2015, 12 women were killed by male family members in the Republic of Croatia. The number of victims of crime among close individuals has increased by an incredible 184%. It rarely occurs that the victim is exposed to only one form of violence. Very often physical violence is associated with verbal, mental, or economic violence. It is necessary to further educate police officers to distinguish the victim from the bully from double arrest and to take into account not only the current event but also the history if a particular family exists. The demographic picture of Croatia is not optimistic. Statistics don't work for us. 39 566 live births over 50 839 dead and yet we allow women to feel sexual discrimination precisely with pregnancy and motherhood. It is neither a natal policy nor a solution to housing problems and unemployment, for example by reducing work contracts to a certain time, building mangers and kindergartens, and not only in cities but also in rural areas, flexible working time, encouraging, using breastfeeding breaks, providing space for that purpose, and not causing ridicule when a working woman wants to use this right as well as the use of maternity and parental leave for her father.3 469 Dad in 2015 used maternity or parental leave, support or compensation. And I congratulate them from this pay phone on that, on the courage because those dads are tearing down the stereotypes that they only give birth to their moms. As a society, we must side with men in the assignment of parental care. As a rule, the courts, on the recommendation of the social care center, assign parental care to their mothers, believing mothers to be better guardians. In this regard, education and sensitization are necessary so that fathers can care equally well for their offspring. Labour market trends deserve our special attention. And she received the most complaints from the lawyer from the field of labour, employment and social security. 51% are such complaints. In particular, it's a high percentage of sexual harassment at work, and 79% of women have had sexual harassment. Then there is discrimination based on motherhood, family status, unequal wages. Women are more slowly employed, easier to lose employment and more economically exposed to poverty. And because of this economic poverty, one part of women also become sex workers. There are between 2 and 5 thousand in Croatia. Under the applicable legal rules, persons who commit prostitution but not the purchasers of services are subject to criminal penalties. I personally, as well as a lawyer, want to advocate a Swedish model in which customers are criminalized and sex workers decriminalize. Reading a daily newspaper, I met with the work of the Association “Let”, an association to improve the quality of life. What are the Let's do? They go to the checkpoints where these women work, talk to them and share condoms. In another also sad story they share and syringes and do much, much for the quality of life because they protect life and health. It is also important to commend the attorney's work on the rights of transgender persons, women in rural areas, women with disabilities suffering from social isolation, members of national minorities, for victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. The report also discusses complaints about non-use of natively sensitive language. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament also state only the male race in all articles and items, the President of the Parliament, the Vice-President, the President of the Republic, the MP. I personally can handle the status advocate but I'm sure none of my colleagues would agree to be a representative. That is why I ask you, Mr. President, to influence that change and that the Croatian Parliament does not discriminate against MPs and use natively sensitive language. And I will conclude that the work of Attorney General Ljubicic and her team is raising the public awareness of the equality of men and women in Croatian society. And this is one of the fundamental constitutional values, and we need to appreciate and evaluate this work positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10646	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10647	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I am pleased that you mentioned a major problem that is not sufficiently highlighted in this report, and this is a problem for fathers and child custody in the event of divorce. On the case, I am working with the Association for Equality Parenthood, who has repeatedly had objections to the current Family Law which otherwise fell in the Constitutional Court and which is, now, no longer, but which has explicitly disabled the joint parental custody of children in some way. Statistical data is approximately like this, in 86% of cases, the child belongs to the mother, approximately 10% of the cases are to the father. No one here asks that number to be equaled but to enable joint parental custody so that the child has a father and mother. Here, as far as I'm concerned, I don't think this report has paid enough attention to that either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10648	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, Sandra Krpan, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10649	My dear colleague, this report, if you read it, has given this problem an enormous amount of attention. The D.A.'s doing a lot of work on that. If you followed, you could carefully read that and when changing the law, it was dedicated to giving the travel documents that it was necessary for both parents to be able to give consent so that a child could be issued a certain travel document. So, the attorney general is absolutely on the side of the fathers, and I think we should all be more sensitive in society than I said that fathers can take care of their own children as well as their mothers. And that practice will change.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10650	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10651	Thank you very much. You spoke of party lists, so they were all lists, most of the lists that didn't meet the legal framework mean that 40% of being a woman. Also, it is not your client i.e. Your list was in more than half the units didn't have women, although I don't think that's the basic problem. They can be all women if they're capable or men on one list, why not. I come from the city where the mayor of the city, we have the mayor here. I think you've gone too far in this, that it's a much more important violation of women's rights as a cashier in trade chains where these exploiters have turned these women into slaves for 2,000 kuna, I can't go to the bathroom, they have to wear literally diapers in employment wondering if you're going to get pregnant, are you planning? It's the humiliation of a woman, for that we have to fight and say that it's a slave at this moment, in this century. These are important things where we should stand behind women mainly in developed areas where women do not have the ability to practice sports, go to a cultural event and many, what women in urban areas have. And you fellow MPs think of amending the Rules of Procedure, and that someone here is underestimating you MPs, I think it's less important to these cashiers and a number of other women who are now slaves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10652	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Sandra Krpan, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10653	Dear colleague, what can always drive me crazy is an argument from a man who says it's not about sex, whether it's male or female, but whether it's about quality and expertise. So it is always interesting in Croatian society that there is always 75% of professional men who can be quality politicians and only 15% women. And as for cashiers who become slaves, I'd like to tell you that if men worked at cash registers, they certainly wouldn't have so little to pay. If men were to sew for sewing machines and not women, they would also have no pay. If the profession were not so feminized in schools, if there were more men, the educators would not have such wages. Because you men can fight very well for your rights and now it's time for us women to fight for our rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10654	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10655	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Krpan, it's my pleasure to belong to a club where of 9 MPs 6 is a woman, 6 is a representative. Equally every time it should be repeated, not so long ago in the 1970s, it was said that women's rights were human rights, not so long ago, recently. And today, from the double of one of our newspapers in the middle of the huge title of the mayor of the capital who says, "I've been mowing, jumping, playing tennis, basketball, I'm not the only one who gave birth." And that's terrifying. And that's terrible. And it's that someone from the double newspaper is insulting women again. Every opportunity in this House needs to be used to talk about women's rights, because the real women really imagine 50 years they're human rights. The real women who work, look a little in the morning when the half-life session starts, you have no idea that there are far fewer women in this House than men. The colleagues turn around and look at how many of us there are and how responsible we are doing our job wherever we are and the way we work, but then we get this message from the duplicate newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10656	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Sandra Krpan, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10657	I must say, I am extremely proud to be a town councilwoman in the City of Rijeka and belong to the SDP. And women in the City Council of the City of Rijeka coming from the SDP are mostly compared to our fellow men. Indeed, there is a complete gender equality there. It is the same when it comes to leading posts in the Primorje-Gorski County. And what's true in Rijeka, what's true in Primorje County, the Primorje-Gorski County, I want it to be true for the Croatian Parliament. And we can make a little joke about why that man wasn't born, so if that nature had arranged it like that, believe me, men wouldn't be able to stand up to women.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10658	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10659	Dear Mrs. Krpan, let's not talk about the possibilities now, so you've advocated that health and civic education become special objects means two objects. So I'm wondering if you'd like to increase the clock or remove any other items? How would you organize that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10660	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10661	My colleague Ilčić, I would very simply resolve it so that the religious science would rule out schools because the Republic of Croatia is a secular state and I believe that religious education can take place through the meaning of the Church whether it is a Catholic Church, Orthodox Church, Synagogue or mosque. This is because I believe that in the 21st century, Croatian students have the right to all information regarding their health. That information should be obtained at school. I do not want to blush when you read the research that has been carried out and listed in this overall report what attitudes young people in Croatia have about homosexuals where they think they are sick people, that they should be excluded from society and that they should not be given the right of speech. I'm sorry it's unacceptable for me, and I don't want to be part of a school like that. And that it is necessary to introduce civic education and to introduce health care because it is important for the future of our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10662	Replicated representative Margareta Majeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, in your presentation, you said the report could read that the demographic image was not optimistic. I believe you've made this beautiful for the reason that, with the drop in investment, the huge number of increases in unemployment, the decline in the economy and the overall development of the economy. A demographic flood is one of the disastrous results of the former SDP government. And I would therefore like to point out here that the remarks that we discussed during yesterday and during the replica and debate that we discussed in the afternoon went to a chapter on demographic renewal is not sufficiently represented in the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2015 because the demographic picture is a national, strategic, economic issue and a question of the future. Because there is no price we would not be prepared to pay for the existence of our own people. And that is why all the institutions and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort ministries have active innovative measures and policies so that this demographic flood, of course, from year to year, still goes in a positive direction, and I think that this is a very important topic that we should discuss, and I hope that in this year and the Ombudsman will not only pay more attention to gender equality but also to other lawyers and ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10664	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10665	Believe me when I speak I speak for Croatia. I really want Croatia to have a larger number of children, but no natal policy will therefore force Croats to have more children while they have forgiveness for such a government. So you've been talking about how you're going to increase benefits for every child born that you're going to give them a thousand euros. So where's that thousand euros? Our government government government bonds didn't pass. The government doesn't work at all, we don't have a government. What kind of natal policy are you talking about? When you talk about evicting 100,000 people. Well, I want young people to leave Croatia but not in such a way that they never come back. Croatia is part of the European Union and it is very important that young people travel, see how it is in the European Union, in other countries and return to Croatia. You don't always have to scare us that 100 thousand people have left Croatia, people will come back when the situation is better than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10666	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10667	Dear MP Krpan, I like that you are fighting so hard for the position of women and I fully support you in that. I particularly agree with you that the position of women is at risk in the field of labour, in the labour market and that for the same jobs women get a sensitive lower salary which is really wrong. However, I would like to ask your opinion and your parties as to why women, we know that in the area of trade, in the business of trade the most works by women. The malls are flooded with merchants, women who work there. It's day seven for rest. Women work massively on Sundays. Can this woman be a good mother, whether she has time to be a mother, instead of having a Sunday lunch with her children, family, playing with them, talking, she doesn't have easy time to rest. This is the cornerstone of demographic policy. It's not just about money. The child needs a stable, peaceful mother who rests on day 7 to talk about taking care of them. So do you, then, agree that this Assembly or Government should be abolished, banning Sundays? Because trade chains don't work on Sundays in Austria, Italy, Germany, etc.? So respected MPs and MPs and Mrs. Krpan, MPs, are you so that we can run together, show that we're protecting the position of the woman because she can't be both housewife and mother and worker and she doesn't have time to rest. Such a demographic policy, she can't have a child if she knows she has to work all seven days. So let us together, please answer, do you agree with this, can we all agree on this issue here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10668	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10669	I agree with you absolutely, and I want to remind you of the fact that in 2003 my government started to ban work on Sundays and then the Constitutional Court collapsed that decision. I grew up in Yugoslavia and on Saturdays shops worked until 1:00 and were closed on Sundays. And when you talk about this dark age, I think there was more concern for family and motherhood than we have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10670	My colleagues and colleagues, please, I'm asking you to keep your voice down. Replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go. My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you, let's be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10671	Dear President of the Parliament. Here's Mrs. or Miss Grup, I don't know, any mature person would sign that report to protect the right woman, of course. We write a lot, we dismember, we plan, and in the end, bad planning, bad performance. I'm curious about the synergy between the judiciary, other authorities and what you need to correct here. I worked for 10 years in the Canadian law enforcement department. Someone doesn't pay child support, they lock him up, he pays money, so... There's a state totally inefficient because we inherited all the former flaws from the former state. We've actually got like... You're talking about demographics, so whoever totally shut down the Croats outside the country to come back here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Syrian refugees in Canada have more right than Croats outside the country. It takes three years to get citizenship. Some would come back and you'd hit them with double taxation, you wouldn't want them here because you'd made a fart out of the country where we're farmers and you don't want those people here. And third, you've mixed some apples and oranges. You're talking about school reform. Croatia is no longer a social experimenting polygon. We had a Shuwar. And if you want Mile Kekin and Johnny Stulic to do that school reform... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10672	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10673	Mr. Glasnović. I was in Canada, Toronto, and I can tell you that never could Prime Minister Oreshkovic in Canada with this knowledge of Croatian language get Canadian citizenship you must pass the course and speak English. I didn't mix any oranges and apples. I just want once again highlighted by the law of a woman can't work seven days a week or men. The labour inspectorate needs to do something about it, so institutions like we all like to say, let them do their job and as far as education reform is concerned, it is very necessary. Croatia showed it can do better yesterday, 40 thousand people got up, not only because of educational reform but because they're sick of this situation and the government that rules in this way with Croatia. Croatia has no government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10674	Thank you. I ask you colleagues, colleagues and colleagues on the left side of the assembly. I'm begging you, I'm really asking you to keep your voice down. And here's the people watching the Parliament transfer, I think we need to be a role model for them to let go, we don't have to get along with opinions, and that's why it's left, right side of the assembly, but here I'm asking you to really quiet down, let your colleagues and colleagues talk. The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10675	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Krpan. Here's to the fact that the agenda is the Attorney General's Report of Gender Equality you've touched more of that in your presentation. I can agree with you when you speak and when you touch that part of the report that talks about the position of women, women workers, they can agree when you talk about the demographic problem, although we can either politicise here or we can discuss the causes of this demographic problem, women's problems, sexual violence from the Homeland War, but in that part of your presentation, which the attorney stated in her report, I cannot agree that the health and civil matter should become separate objects. As a protest worker, you know very well that the law on primary and secondary education is about the burden of students, or the fund of hours they have. Class class five sundials, subject to class six sundials. What you could hear earlier and my question was the same as what you would have abolished so that we could respect the law. You said they'd end their religious studies. I can't agree with that either, because religious science is an electoral object. So his parents choose him themselves. I'm sorry you didn't say you might have increased the gym class of physical and health culture if we were talking about today's problem, the child-threatening problem. Why should health education not be an integral part such as physical health culture, civic education and I believe that there are topics to discuss but not if we can discuss it as a separate subject but through teaching subjects that already exist, classes of the class community, through history classes, geography because these are topics that can be dragged through all teaching subjects as already exists, and every teacher is doing so now. What I don't agree to become separate objects is that we don't have textbooks and that our protest workers aren't competent enough to hand it over as separate subjects.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10676	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10677	My colleagues can agree with you. And you will agree with me that it is precisely because it is important that the curricula reform goes, that the work of members of the experimental task force headed by Mr. Boris Jokic will completely change the school education system. Our children today are drowsing facts and data that will not be practically needed in their lives. What I want them to be free thinking people, learn to think with their heads, and you need to increase the fund of health and physical culture and musical education and fine arts and technical culture because these are objects where young people develop their creativity. You don't have to scare the public by increasing the number of cases. There are objects that can be agreed on in one, we can discuss it like chemistry, biology, physics, etc. So there are solutions to avoid increasing the number of captains.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10678	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10679	Thank you. I am pleased that you said that under the urgency of our schools from the earliest age it is necessary to introduce civic education, that young people should be brought up to be aware of their rights and to realize their duties, but obviously those who are holding back the cartoon reform would prevent it because they prefer to have their subjects rather than citizens, and while their children are being sent to Oxford, they would be happy to learn ours in error. And I am pleased to mention the gender equality that is mandatory under our Law on Gender Equality and the Council of Europe Convention, because birth equality guarantees that birth roles from the beginning will not be given from the young. And that's exactly what the D.A. finds, and that's what exactly those who disagree and who resent the attorney-general who exactly insists on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10680	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10681	I fully agree with you, colleague Anticevic, and I really believe that Croatia would be an orderly country, in order to be a country that will challenge our pride that civil education must enter our schools. We can't have backwards attitudes, my parents who were young in the '70s were more revolutionary than these young people. Today, we have conservative young people coming out of school who really have questionable attitudes about sexuality, about how to actively engage in civil and civil society. I thank you, colleague Glasnović, I am not backward at all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10682	I beg you, colleague Glasnović!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10683	And he has to learn about it because you see what happens when Minister Kovac comes to Israel, and he doesn't know when Israel was founded in 1948. I'm ashamed! But it's the foreign minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10684	Replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, I fully agree with you on the need for change in our education system, on the need to introduce however and in whatever way both civil and full extent of health care because I mentioned yesterday that research that is now the latest came out where I think young people's attitudes are terrifying. So, young people who think that giving a slap to their partner, to their partner is a perfectly normal thing and that's okay. To fight and then beat each other up and expect you to stay in that relationship. Is that normal for you? Is this normal for all of us here in the Croatian Parliament? But it didn't come yesterday, those young people's attitudes weren't built yesterday, they hadn't been built two or three years ago, they've been building for the last 25 years, they wanted to admit it to me or not. What kind of young generations are we talking about? Our mouths are full of demographic restoration, especially on the part of the Patriot coalition, and then they call the D.A.'s attorney that she didn't do enough in the area. There's only one page of recommendations she's made and what needs to be done when it comes to demographic restoration. Well, she's not the lawyer who's going to be doing programs and demographic renewal strategies. For years, the same indicators have been shown. There is the government, the government's institutions, who are setting up ministries to implement these recommendations. And if we were the right parliamentary deputies now, so every time we got a report from any attorney's office, we'd ask the government for whatever it was, whatever color it had to choose to substrate what they did on the basis of the recommendations and observations that these attorneys had, tomorrow some other, the attorney general, etc. No, we don't want that. Then it's easier for us to talk and look for hair in the egg and say there's only one page about demographic restoration. And on that one page, it says how and how a strategy should be developed. But it's not the D.A.'s office, so we got the pots mixed up a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10686	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10687	Well, I'm very proud of yesterday's gathering as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and I want to say that I was impressed by the banners that appeared yesterday, and some of them are "Croatia loves knowledge", "Croatia can do better", "Time to Go".
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10688	Thank you. Next in the debate is on behalf of the club HSU and Stipe Petrine, the distinguished representative Marija Ilic, please. ... Here I am begging you because she only answered for the end of the line, it's not on time, but here I apologize, here's the D.A. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, with your co-workers, distinguished MPs and MPs, a lovely greeting. Today we continue with the topic of the constitutional principle of gender equality and the report of the Ombudsman institution. As I answered some questions yesterday and the replicas of MPs and MPs, I would also like to relate today to the things that have opened up and all because of the public and the representatives and MPs who did not have the opportunity to hear in which direction and on which questions we discussed. I would like to address the issue of parental care for responsible parenting and equal parenting in view of the parliamentary issue. So, the Ombudsman's institution had direct cooperation with the Parents' Association for Equal Parenting, especially when it comes to fathers who received an opinion on parental care from the Social Care Centre in a way that the unemployed do not have the right to parental care because they are unemployed. If they are employed, the opinion of the Centre for Social Care is that they cannot be parents of parental care primarily because there is no one to look after their children because they are employed. Their question is when will we be good enough to have the right to parental care and we are one of the small percentages that we have requested to be parents and guardians of our children. We point to social care centres that primarily give opinions. It is the courts that respect or reject and seek to review such opinions. As a rule, according to the research and analysis we have had in the last four years, the courts confirm the opinions of the welfare centre. Over four years of handling fathers' complaints about parental care and this statistics goes in favor of fathers, there is a relationship of 80 and 20% when it comes to parental care that we point to centres to care for and give equal opportunities, equal opportunities to both fathers and mothers. And that indeed for the benefit of the child, they assess who is more competent, who is more relevant to participate in parental care, and where there is a need for equal parenting depending on the age of the child. Unfortunately, the area or area of the child's well-being is in the care of the guardians for children, and we coordinate through conferences of individual cases. When it comes to equal approach, equal respect for arguments because fathers say you can't hear them, that they are not verified and that they are discriminated against, that they are not properly treated. In such cases, and I must say that from year to year, less and less because of the warnings and recommendations that we give to the social care centres of 118 social care centres in the Republic of Croatia, which is always going towards the knowledge of the restoring ministry that we have introduced in this mandate, the Ombudsman's institutions have shown that perception changes, the awareness of welfare centres and social workers and workers is changing. And what encourages me is that after the last conversation in the resolution ministry has agreed to go to a necessary education precisely on such issues of social workers and workers because we believe that this is a question that is really very sensitive and imposed as a topic and needs educational and preventive work on it. When we talk about the position of a woman in the labour market yesterday and today is mentioned large markets, the exploitation of women's labour force is mentioned, there is a lot of talk about how the employer treats employees. We take complaints like that every day. Almost 80% of complaints about the labour market are filed by women and 40% of these complaints refer to sexual harassment, 30% discrimination based on motherhood. I must say that what we tried to solve through one political authority and now through talks with the new political option to devote attention to labour market control. Inspects of educational, health, labour inspections should really be on the ground. They have organizational and human problems. We need to work to structure it, but it's up to us to point out that we're heading towards employers. What encourages us is that only 1% of those who have discriminated have deafened our warnings. We can't sanction them, no ombudsman can do it, but we can talk about them in public. And I don't think any employer who gets in an interrogation procedure with us always hires a lawyer or a lawyer. We can publicly point out who those who discriminate are, conduct discriminatory practices. Thank you. I'll look back in the final word on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10690	Here's a few replicas. The first is the Honorable representative of Ladislav Ilcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10691	Your Honor, Madam Attorney, you have the right to always report to the Rules of Procedure and I see that you have decided to participate actively in this debate and I am pleased. Well, since you're already commenting on the other comments from the MPs, I'm also interested when Mrs. Krpan says that the area of gender equality is so wide that it could practically cover all issues in the Republic, so I'm interested in your comment on her proposal to introduce health and civic education as mandatory subjects? To get religious out of school because it's a question of gender equality for Mrs. Krpan. And the second question is that she is proud of the time of Yugoslavia and what kind of Yugoslavia looked at family policy, so where is she, by the way, said maternity leave lasted for a maximum of 3 months, do you think Croatia should develop in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10692	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to warn under Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Mr Ilcic, does not really have the right to ask such questions to the Ombudsman because she is neither a representative nor an executive authority, and it is truly inappropriate. Nor is the minister, it is inappropriate to ask questions that are definitely not within her jurisdiction. Thank you. And I'm asking you not to let your colleague answer questions like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10694	You didn't tell me exactly what in Article 238? What is in Article 238? ... I don't see it as inappropriate behavior. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He didn't insult anyone. He didn't curse anyone. The reply to the replica is the esteemed attorney. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10695	Since I have two minutes, very short. So in our report, you'll see that health care is something that's being conducted through class community classes. We did research through 300 and some schools, we examined about 2.5 thousand teachers and teachers to tell us what obstacles they face when it comes to teaching, class classes and conducting health and sexual education modules. I must say that what we say in our report shows that civic education and education is a separate subject, given that it is a very complex area where we hold that both health education and all modules listed should be introduced into such a single subject. About the question of religious science. We are here to monitor and monitor what political desires, what executive power creates. What the executive government creates and what you in Parliament decide we will be there to monitor and monitor as a neutral institution on the ground. I have to admit about this parental leave that I didn't understand enough just a question that was the intensity of your question. But when we were in the European Commission in 2006 when the implementation of the Croatian legislative system with EU standards was then at the will of the Member States, whether or not to determine how much maternity leave and parental leave would be, the European Commission objected to the length of the maternity leave of the Republic of Croatia, which was then 12 months. Croatia has arranged it through several changes in the way it was arranged. If he arranges it otherwise, we will represent such a position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10696	I would like to thank the replica of Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10697	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General. I'd like to open one perspective and it's about perhaps the most important thing we can talk about today, which is violence against women and domestic violence. I think that's the thing about which we have to seriously ask ourselves here and see what we can do to change the legal rules of other laws that concern your work too, to try to make violence against women who are victims in 70% of domestic violence try to slow down slowly, to minimise it. It's one of the most serious problems we have. It's often when the police come in to check in with both the victim and the aggressor. And a woman and a man who often bullied her in any way. And that's what's not good. That's how violence is relativized. That's how the victim puts himself in a bad position, and that's the topic that we need to talk about here today. On the other hand, women are often in a situation, since I have done a lot of work on the subject of not reporting domestic violence, suppressing, having no one to sign up for several safe houses. Often they are not encouraged to react and call the police and the fact is that they are not encouraged or members of their families or their neighbors. So we have to do everything in society to encourage our neighbours right now, to encourage society to report cases of violence, especially domestic violence, because with domestic violence all these problems, demographic problems, problems of departure, problems of leaving Croatia that colleagues have previously talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10698	Thank you. The next one is a prominent representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10699	Madam Attorney, you reiterated that in the case of divorce, fathers receive 20% of the cases and mothers in 80% of the cases. So 80 to the 20. However, we all know from experience in spite of the Law on Family Relations and the Law on Gender Equality in Article 3 which emphasizes, therefore, in the first provisions that women and men have equal rights and responsibilities in all family relationships. But how women live their family lives, and we know that most of the burdens of family life, as well as raising and caring for a child in marriage, are borne by women. I am glad that there are also these associations where men also want to participate equally and that they feel often denied the confidence of the child in the case of divorce. What we do, however, is what you and your attorneys recognize, which is exactly the one better and greater involvement of women in politics. So these things will only be corrected in a way that the state must make its incentive measures make men more present in family life and women more in public and political life. So that such a relationship is out and that it is prescribed once because we see such a secular setting in family law did not bear fruit. Parent leave must be mandatory for men.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10700	Thank you. Replicated representative Margareta Majeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that we have one parliamentary debate, and that is, the purpose of democracy, obviously all MPs and MPs do not experience it in such a way, so a fellow MP would forbid the Advocate General to answer the question of the MPs and I think it is inadmissible. And thank God long ago those times were behind us when it was forbidden to speak. So thank you, Madam Attorney-General, for having a dialogue and for having a conversation and for discussing what we are discussing. And no one here calls anyone. We have a report, MPs and MPs as well as at all other points of the agenda that come to the plenary session, debate, present their criticisms, praises, among other things, discussing how the Ombudsman has been involved here and whether he or she should be more or less involved in some topics during his or her activities. And the purpose is, and I believe that there is, of course, a report to make certain things that may not have been done during the new period of one year better. As for the attorney general's statement on women's labour market. I fully agree with you, it is certainly an absolute priority to protect women in the workplace and it is certain that in shopping centres these rights are possible and at the lowest level, but there are a number of other professions where women meet discrimination at the workplace. It is mostly a service profession but also a number of other jobs but it is also important to pay special attention to women returning from maternity leave because more than 85% met some kind of discrimination at work when they returned from maternity leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10702	Thank you. Replicated representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10703	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mrs. Ljubic. First, I'd like to refer to Mr. Ilcic's question. You, Mr. Ilcic, will probably never agree, especially after what I'm about to say. However, I will always fight for every MP in this House to have the right to say whatever is on his soul. What Mr. Ilcic and I will never agree, we will not agree on demographic policy, but we will agree that it is very important today and that it should exist. So, Mrs. Ljubic, I'd like to ask you a question. I personally believe that demographic policy should be based on and that women's right to be elected should be questioned, but I also don't think that this is one of the reasons why I don't agree with Mr. Ilcic, that this is the main reason why we have problems in demographics. What I didn't like. I didn't like it when you said there was nothing you could do about what I think is important for demographic policy and that's exactly what you do for a certain time. In fact, working for a certain time is the component that just leads to women not being able to decide on family creation, employers often abuse it, but what I'm saying is just what you said you couldn't do anything about it. I personally believe that there is a great deal to be done in particular to establish cooperation with inspections, especially more often to report exactly such employers because I think that this way we can greatly improve just one concrete demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. And you have a lot of influence on creating exactly that demographic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10704	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10705	Thank you, Vice President. I think my colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure, item 238, for reasons he's talking about a subject he can't talk about. I don't think he can replicate his colleague Ilcic. I think he's a lawyer colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10706	I agree with you, colleague. I'd just like to make one of my comments. So, since I've been holding a session for about 40 minutes most of the time, I should be warning to take the word out because it didn't stick to Article 238, but since I consider every MP to be a little wider on the subject and that we can't stop an agent from speaking then I'm flexible so. But here I warn and appeal to you distinguished MPs and MPs to stick to the topic because the subject of the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2015 and I think that in these 40 minutes and a little more topics than what is on the agenda, but here is the understanding that this is the Parliament and that we are all here our strongest weapon is language and thought so that we let a little theme expand but I am appealing to you because it is not correct that I am taking away the word from everyone at the moment that it goes off topic, it would not look good. The answer to the line, here's the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10707	Your Honor, I thank you for your question. And here, I'll try to answer that question. So in my speech, when I said that we as an institution can't sanction employers or those who discriminate. We are the ones who conduct the examination process and point out through public statements, through the report to the Croatian Parliament and through warnings, recommendations and other our decisions to those who discriminate, most often employers. It's government bodies, local communities or corporations that don't matter. When we talk about working time for a certain time, I have to say that the Institute of Working Time is being misused for a certain period of time. We have created a genealogy of using work for a certain time for the last 7, 9 years where it is seen that the progressive use of a working relationship is to be made for a certain time, extends somewhere and by 5, 7, 9 or 10 years. Certain public institutions every time a woman stays pregnant, her work relationship stops, she goes to the employment office after maternity leave again. It's about the abuse of an institute where we every time deliver such demands to the labour inspector. On how labour inspection and resolute ministry will react and how it will react on the ground, sometimes we do not have feedback, but as an existing trend we always point out, and in this report we have indicated that it is something that creates one uncertainty, economic uncertainty on the labour market, especially women, and who are based on a working relationship to a certain period of time almost twice as much as men, and therefore it happens that in this way and the uncertainty of family planning is happening and today we have the most women in the institution for employment in a fertilising period of 25-29 years precisely because they fear that they will start a working relationship, at which working hours will be accepted and whether they will be able to achieve motherhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10708	Thank you. Here's my apology one more time. Dear Representative Maria Ilic, you had to wait. Here, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10709	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. The esteemed attorney with the associates. In fact, the prosecutor's institution for gender equality is one necessary collective in any society that promotes the values of democracy and human rights. The report is extremely correct and professionally done. The increased activity of the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality is visible, and it certainly stems to some extent from the fact that women today are far better informed about their rights and forms of measures at their disposal to protect their rights and whether it is a family circle, a workplace or a media space. And any shift towards improving gender equality must also be attributed to the Ombudsman's institute. In practice, discrimination occurs in various areas of public and private life. Family violence is one of the most common forms of violence against women where complaints and police statistics show that nearly two-thirds of the victims of domestic violence are women. One of the most positive examples is the change in the public awareness of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the perception of domestic violence as a serious social problem as opposed to the previous periods when it was considered a domain of private life. It was this change of paradigm that allowed women to seek protection from these competent institutions and was given adequate assistance that exceeded the collection of statements and material evidence and was given support and understanding from the Ombudsman through the help of psychologists, legal aid and protection from the possibility of repeating the work. In addition to cases of domestic violence most often reported to the police, complaints received to lawyers for gender equality are mostly covered by the field of labour and employment, which is seen in the report where women make up most of the unemployed, most of the employees at a certain time, most of the underpaid sectors, most of the victims of gender harassment and sexual harassment at work. In the area of employment and work, it is evident that there is a continued increase in the number of employees on the basis of a fixed-term employment contract. There are a number of women who make contracts for a certain period of time, which represents the exceptional uncertainty of women on the labour market. We can also talk about the pay gaps that are mentioned between 10 and 11% of women's damage to men. This certainly has a negative impact on a positive nativity policy. Those who deal with the issue of family and natality policies or who deal with the situation and know what the situation in the labour market is about problems and challenges faced by women know that the situation is extremely complex. These are all of course factors along with a series, a number of others that influence the determination of family and partner whether they will have children. And that's why I would say that, the national issue, the strategic question, the question of all of us, and not just the lawyer for gender equality, how she tried to bring it up through some debates. The big problem remains the sub-representation of women in positions where important social, economic and political decisions are made, which is necessary to change. It was an attempt. Women are still under-represented in political parties and political decision-making positions. One of the obvious evidence is this 8th Assembly meeting, which counts 15% of women in the Parliament. Which is not according to the law. I believe that our proposal, which was both the law and the proposal and the defense attorneys and a series of appeals through associations and civil society, is unfortunately known to you that the Constitutional Court has just challenged itself. But what I have to point out is another fact that the woman in our society has about 51.3% of the data and they are not at the moment of choosing women. And I think there's too much to comment on. But it's certainly for analysis and survey to investigate it. What I'd still like to think about are women from the rural area. In general, it can be argued that today the life of women in the rural area of the Republic of Croatia is changing, perhaps not the desired intensity that is certain, in order to draw attention to the position of women in the country and to raise awareness of the problems facing them in recent years in Croatia. There is an increase in activity at both national and local level. There are plenty of activities, there is also the World Day celebration of rural women, the organisation of conferences, round tables, professional workshops, exhibitions, events, publications, etc. etc. So you're intensively working on awareness. A study on the status of women in rural areas and the needs of rural women in the Republic of Croatia has been conducted with extremely significant data on women's lives in rural areas, which are important for the creation and adoption of future measures and plans. The work that women perform in rural areas still seems invisible, often underrated and underrecognized despite the fact that the woman is the head of the family household. A family in which a woman plays an increasingly important role is a public support primarily for the development of the rural area. That is why it takes great understanding, appreciation, and affirmation of women. Although the public is most often referred to as physical violence against women, I would like to point out that it is especially in rural areas, and that is very well known to me as the one who is rarely or almost never spoken of. This psychological violence is often manifested in the exploitation where a woman becomes literally a family slave who, along with her regular work, works from morning to night to meet all partners and family obligations, and because of fear and I would say a patriarchal pattern of succession from her primary family and has no power to oppose all the demands that impose life on her in secondary families. Such women get sick early and lose their ability to work so that psychological violence is manifested very specifically at a physical level. A study on the status of awareness and the needs of rural women in the Republic of Croatia has also shown that 31% of respondents experience frequent domestic violence while sometimes 43% experience them. I therefore suggest, on the basis of these indicators, that the Ombudsman be given a full contribution to the increased activity of solving the problem in the rural area, and I believe that the counties or local communities could make a full contribution to improving these conditions. Finally, the issue of gender equality is not exclusively a question of women's human rights, but of economic, economic, social and political issues. The Croatian party club of pensioners and the independent list of Stipe Petrina will accept this commendation report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10710	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10711	Dear MPs, here while you were talking, I don't know if you're familiar with students, so the members of the fairer sex raised a tent outside the Ministry of Science, education because they protested because they haven't received scholarships from the state since January, and I can't just, I can't eat, they don't sleep. Please, this is a serious question. How can people, how can men and women take demographic policy, how can we improve demographic policy if students don't have elementary conditions for life? No scholarships have been paid since January. Dee's the minister, what's the minister doing? I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to take over the leadership and report to the Parliament until the morning break... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10712	I will warn you that you have broken the Rules of Procedure and gone off topic. I said I'd let it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10713	Before the afternoon break about what the circumstances are and what's going on there? When will these scholarships be paid? Because we can't let those kids be on the road. And that's demographic politics, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10714	Your Honor, I ask you to stick to the subject. You have responded to the replica regarding the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality. You've had time to call a break for the club, you have business opportunities to talk about the subject you started talking about, but please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10715	Thank you very much. I'd just like you to make it up to me for a while. So what I'm trying to say is that there are students in the tent, it's a rude violation of rights, customs, payoffs. It violates the November standard, and on the other hand, the guys get into a situation that they can't normally study. We had a protest yesterday, we had one message yesterday, and today this isn't going on for five months now to pay off the most needed scholarships. I'm asking you, Vice President, to question this and have the minister come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10716	Thank you. Dear colleague Maria Budimir here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10717	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague injured Article 238, he spoke of an issue that was not the subject of discussion and I beg you, President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10718	I said, I warned him. I beg you, please, please, please, welcome your guest, Mr. Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10719	A colleague injures Article 233 because he abuses the Rules of Procedure because he talks about a subject that is not subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10720	No, it's not, you've abused the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely, you have business opportunities. If you want to articulate the positions outside the topic we are currently discussing, you can call the agenda a break for the club, you know everything, that I don't have to repeat and articulate what is current and what you would like to communicate. I'm asking you nicely to function that way. I think it is very, very correct for the work of the Croatian Parliament. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10721	Your Honor, of course it refers to both sexes your replica sent to me. And all I have left is to agree with you and accept it as a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10722	Thank you. Dear Representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished representative also pointed out the problem of family violence in her presentation. Surely that's one of the biggest problems. It is not an individual family problem, it is a social problem for all those who can influence to reduce the number of victims of domestic violence, all those involved, neighbors, all those who remain silent and who do not report domestic violence and, of course, the institution to enable victims of domestic violence to care, adequate care to separate themselves from the violent family but of course also processes. One of the problems of not reporting domestic violence is certainly an economic problem but definitely the problems are also in the criminal rules we have. Because in the event of a domestic violence report, both spouses are detained. And can you imagine, then, that a woman who is a victim of domestic violence, whether from her partner or spouse, will report violence and still have children and that she knows that she will be detained at the police station all night to go to the judge tomorrow and tell her truth and her story. And secondly, it's about women's shelters. A colleague, Bernardić, knows that the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County and the ministry has resolutely signed a contract 7 years ago with the autonomous women's house Zagreb where everyone is funding one-third. Funding is therefore a shelter, autonomous women's house. And last year's resolution ministry, where the SDP minister was still headed, abolished that part of the funding. Unfortunately, the SDP of the city of Zagreb in the city assembly did not react, you were not loud. And in this way you enabled and allow to shut down the autonomous women's house in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10724	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10725	Dear President, the articles of Rules of Procedure from 201 to 242 have been injured because MP Mađeric is unfortunately untrue in this House. I have to say it. I have to say. Anything can be said, but we can't lie. Don't lie and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10726	Thank you, Your Honor. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marija Ilic. I apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative violated Article 238 because he had deviated from the general rules of conduct in the assembly by his conduct. As a representative, I have the right to express my views and facts. As for the autonomous women's house Zagreb ask them if and when they received funds from the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10728	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of the representative violated Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because it is false, so I would ask it to remind her that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, unlike HDZ, introduced three-year financing for safe houses and not to leave it to the local community from year to year, and that is the real truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10730	I beg you, this isn't, this is an explanation, this isn't a replica. Replica...... Well, I ask you to explain, and when a breach of the Rules of Procedure arises, then it must be a violation of the Rules of Procedure rather than a replication. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10731	Dear MPs, first and foremost, I have not said for a moment in my debate that this violence in the family is an individual case. Of course you did, you said I pleaded as an individual case. No, I didn't. I was referring to indicators in the report concerning domestic violence in our society. And that's the problem of society, but I did draw attention to the rural part from where, so, but it's an integral part of it, but I asked the D.A. to focus on some surveys and to analyze why there's more violence in the rural part of our society. It was, it wasn't isolated as individual, it was within our entire country. But you've replicated a part of Agent Bernardic, and I can't give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10732	Thank you. Dear Representative Blaženko Boban, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10733	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ilic, through your debate, you said that there were most problems through the working segment regarding gender inequality and absolutely agree with you. I would add that in some way and particularly apostrophe was even more expressed in women's mothers, women's future mothers, women's pregnant women. And that's not the problem with either this report or the lawyer, here is the legislator's problem because he didn't regulate it by the laws and should be regulated absolutely by the laws, bearing in mind that both motherhood and paternity is a sacred act of every woman and every man. This segment is respected through legislation, of course, by those men and women who want it, those men and women who want it, but it is indeed a sacred lofty act of every woman, every man, and therefore the legislator must take care mainly through the working segment, protection of both mothers and such future mothers in the segment and work on Sundays, in the section of the cancellation period, in the section of their pay, and ultimately the salary allowance, because if the legislator does not recognise it then there is nothing from the demographic renewal of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10734	Thank you. Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10735	Your Honor, I agree completely, almost entirely with you. However, the right to motherhood and motherhood whether it is sacred or natural to leave it to mothers or partners as it will be, but since I believe in the progress of medicine, I would not be surprised if one of the representatives came tomorrow and got pregnant.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10736	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10737	Dear representative, Mrs. Ilic, I listened to part of your debate in which you spoke about the sub-representation of women I would say at all levels of politics. I'd ask you and me and all of us here why we're so hypocritical. Why are we so hypocritical? Which message we send to women who want to get involved in politics. We remember the former prime minister's statement while Kitarovic and... lauded in Hungary, we didn't help people, she's a handful of misery, I know her while Tomislav Karamark was sticking out of her pocket. We remember the recent humiliation of Mr. Stazic regarding Mrs. Zastava, Mrs. Representative Ruzica Vukovac from the Most. I don't remember all the MPs here unanimously judging exactly that kind of behavior. Let's remember at the local level of a statement that I don't even want to mention how ugly the deputy mayor of Dubrovnik is when he was calculating the City Council of Dubrovnik. Let us remember a statement by Zoran Milanovic at the SDP Women's Forum, fight, be better, be smarter, forget you're women, but not to be completely subjective, so you don't think I'm subjective I'll mention what happened on the other side. Remember Mr. Shex's statement about Mrs. Sobol, remember the staff, remember Mr. Hebrang's statement when he defended Mrs. Kosor, says: "Mrs. Kosor will stand by you, not as if you were a man but as a man." Which message we send to women who want to enter politics today. Why don't we all unanimously condemn such primitive actions regardless of whether they came from the left or the right, send women a message, come into politics, you'll be humiliated, come into politics, the MPs will treat you uglyly, which message we send, why are we hypocritical?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10738	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10739	Your Honor. Of course I agree with you. Whether we are hypocritical or not should then be analysed by each of the representatives in this House. But help us now to discuss gender equality. If the attack on women is on any matter, surely the other part or the male part should be protected. And through all these lists you said, I didn't really notice at certain times when men happened to get on their feet. And today we're just discussing, so we're fighting not for women's rights where they don't exist, but we're fighting for gender equality. I want you and I in this House or anywhere in any position to be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10740	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10741	Dear Representative Ilic, I listened carefully to your presentation and I would refer to the demographic picture of Croatia today, which is disastrous, which simply warns us all to see how to try to solve it, how to get more birth, how to give women not only all the rights that I am pushing for to have and more than that, watching young women who are increasingly working. What time they don't have for a house or family, let alone having children and don't let God have a little more children, so he'd come back a little bit in the past when our mothers were born to five and six children where we're most of us here in this House might not even be if there weren't any who were happy, they weren't all unhappy women, they were happy in such a family where poverty, showing but love prevailed. I wonder where this world is going today, where this Europe is going. I know that we follow European laws, we have to set up Europe, Europe is empty and simply vacuuming and from our young people who should stay here to bear. I don't know what to say to all these laws, but I'd like for us to be a little more honest here in Croatia and raise our standard and free our women so much that we can devote ourselves more to the family. I think that would be the only thing that would make us all happy. This kind of work, as colleagues mentioned, where women work on Saturdays and Sundays and lunches and children raise kindergartens, when we see small children at 7:00 in the morning, but Mom can't stay at home. It's not all a question of women's rights, it's only a question of how to free a woman from such obligations that she can enjoy her children nicely and that she is giving birth as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10742	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10743	Your Honor, I can't agree with you at all. Because this is just a man's view. Why are you burdening a woman through your replica? Yeah, that's right. Because you keep saying that a woman is a supporter, that a woman should be a mother, which she is, but shouldn't a father be a part mother? ... No, not that, but share the jobs that await a woman when she comes home so she has to do all that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Make lunch by the time she gets home. Raise the children by the time she gets home. So we're looking... No men's jobs and no women's jobs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There are equal jobs for you and for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10744	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10745	Thank you very much. Comrade Ilic, you said the report was professionally made. So when we open the contents, it really guides us. I've never seen better content before, clearer and more transparent in any report like this. But the front page doesn't match the content. Appreciating graphic playfulness, aesthetic horizons, freedom of creativity it is inappropriately important content and importance of work. As far as the report itself is concerned, I'm glad to see the gap in the salaries of women and men. And the gross salary of women is on average significantly lower than the gross salary of men. But if we look at the gross salary of up to 5,000 kuna, then we'll see that there's a huge percentage of women, not men. On the lowest wages, the share of women is much higher. As for the contract indefinitely, the contracts for working indefinitely are almost gone, as new ones are being concluded, there are growing contracts at a certain time especially in telecommunications companies where, continuously, ten years in a row, people change at a certain time in the same jobs. It's an unacceptable condition. But labour inspections aren't working, and the State Inspectorate has been suspended. It's like it suits someone. As to whether women are discriminated against by the male world, this report is repeated year after year in the Croatian Parliament. Seven, eight years ago, I said that I was ashamed to belong to a man's world as this world treats women. Two years ago, I did it again. Has anything changed until today? I don't agree that it isn't. I'm even more ashamed because it's even worse to treat women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10746	Thank you. Here is just before I give you my word, I apologize to the honourable MPs and MPs, it is an honor and a pleasure in the Croatian Parliament at the diplomatic gallery to greet Nj. E. Lászla Kövéra of the President of the National Assembly of Hungary who is attending an official visit to the Republic of Croatia. . Thank you. [[Applause.]] Here, a reply to the replica by the distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10747	Dear colleague Maric, as far as the cover is concerned, is the author and the one who accepted him, so his creativity, taste, but in my understanding, it is a symbolic representation of exactly the topic we are discussing, which is exactly the ink that this topic has. There you go. That's it. ... No, no, it's a dark color that's just shown symbolically. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10748	Thank you. The following is in the debate of the distinguished representative Arsen... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here, I apologize. Your Honor's Attorney General, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10749	I'm sorry you don't have graphic design in color, we print it in two colors Croatian-English and English-Croatian versions where in one segment you can see the face and shadow of a man, and on the other part, which is not printed, and the press is a man and the other is a woman. So, this above umbrella you see is the faces, the silos of men and women that we added this year as one of the segments or logos that we had related to EU projects and which have been accepted as such by the European Commission. I think it's very important except for the symbolism of what's in the content of the report, and I think if you think it's necessary to discuss or problematize graphic design here we can talk about it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10750	Replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10751	Madam Attorney-General, if you're symbolizing something, then you're already guiding what characteristics should a woman have, what kind of a man, what is unacceptable? This cover is more suitable for the picture book than for the attorney general's serious report on gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10752	Thank you. In the debate, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to refer to a statement that I heard this morning in the debate when MP Mađeric is either relevant or semi-limising with counterpart Paric about what someone should or should not be talking about in the Assembly said that a long time ago when it was forbidden to speak. Did I give you a good interpretation? I would remind you of a statement by a Croatian, great Croatian thinker of the 21st century, who said in May 2014 "Everyone will be able to think what they want in their home, but on a public stage they won't be able to do it." That is, therefore, a very clear distinction that you can do at home and what you can do on a public stage. Something more liberal is that thinker when it comes to business and friendly relations, publicly and privately, but it's very clear what the poet wanted to say. Namely, this is the attorney general's report on gender equality the fourth in her term. Due to the political context, it is good to remember that Mrs Višnja Ljubicic was elected as the lawyer for gender equality in 2011 at the last session of the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament. It is the session that was otherwise the opposition then boycotted by SDP because Mr Jovanovic dared to say something and then for the first time in parliament's history, at least in that term, they removed immunity because of a spoken word in a private lawsuit. He was sued otherwise by HDZ. That's why we boycotted that session. But she was chosen unanimously. To be honest, I don't know if we'd have voted for her choice back then, but it's good to remember that, too. Afterwards, she reported four times three times to the Croatian Parliament. The 2012 report was adopted unanimously, zero votes for, zero votes against, zero votes against, zero votes against, zero abstentions, I apologize. The 2013 report was adopted with zero votes against and two abstentions and a 2014 report with one vote against and zero abstentions. In total, in three years, three reports, one against and two abstentions. The 2015 report does not differ much from those for 2012, 2013 and 2014, but according to the discussions we had heard from clubs, parts of clubs and perhaps all clubs of the ruling majority, this report will experience a slightly different result than the previous three. What's changed? Well, exactly what I said at the beginning, he can't think about it anymore, nor can a public defender do what he wants. And that's why, Madam Attorney General, I will support your report with special pleasure precisely because these will not support it. It's usually your biggest compliment that Ilcic will not support your report. Imagine how you could actually go back there and get his vote for a report like this. I'm sure they'd know something's wrong. As for the laws which, therefore, whose special implementation you are following, one has also been passed during the HDZ government, it is the Law on Discussion of Discrimination. Mrs. Kosor was otherwise also in HDZ at the time, and from the work of the conservative public she was the holder of the law's making, she had a very large criticism, even in her party at the time. I don't know if she was the Prime Minister at the time or if she was still the Deputy Prime Minister. So she was Deputy Prime Minister, but she stood by the law, but it's obvious that those who voted for the law at the time did not do so with great enthusiasm at least as far as this side is concerned, the other side of the assembly. Because if they did, they wouldn't be criticizing the D.A. right now because it also points to two things that besides this classic story about gender equality, so male and female rights, which are the case, so that's the story of gender identity and the story of the rights of same-sex communities. So it's part of the attorney general's work on gender equality. Let's first of all, as far as birth identity is concerned, he was put in the Law on State wombs in 2012 but before that in 2011, an administrative process for sex change was started for a person who was not therefore subject to surgery. The Ministry of Administration then asked the Ministry of Health, the health department to adopt a regulation that would regulate it, and Minister Milinovic adopted the rule. However, no such gender change has been recognised under this Regulation. In addition, the administrative procedure of the person who requested it failed to obtain from the state a solution to recognise its gender change without an operational procedure, but therefore the Constitutional Court punished the Republic of Croatia with 35 thousand kuna for not allowing it. And after that, I am a lot of liberal understandings, but I'm surprised to admit it too, we have some dilemmas on our own because I thought it was the doctors who had to determine it. And after that, I signed the first amendment to change as minister of administration, the first solution to changing gender change without an operational procedure. But what was the message? That the state has no right to look in their pants literally. So, at times when we are discussing it, when the right of women to choose becomes questionable or at least a little more intense debate begins, when it becomes one of the main issues of the choice of constitutional judges, the Constitutional Court, following the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, clearly gives a message to the state authorities that the state has no right to look at anyone's underpants. To determine what sex is. Besides, as weird as that sounds, I'm surprised, too, I have to admit. So this is the current standard for LGBT persons, i.e. transgender persons. It's the same in the work of the attorney general for gender equality. The second was the Life Partnership Act, or the right of same-sex communities. No matter how a referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage passed, it is very wrongly called a family referendum because it is not. The fact is that in 2011, another administrative and then administrative and constitutional court dispute was initiated in Strasbourg and then at the end of the European dispute, that a person who was in the same sex community who was not otherwise recognised or registered at the time in the Republic of Croatia that the European Court of Human Rights had determined a certain amount of money because of the fact that the state bodies of the Republic of Croatia in 2011 when there was no law on life partnership did not allow the family to be joined, so the person who was in the same sex community. Regardless of why the Constitutional Court said it had not been violated by the constitutional rights of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the European Court of Human Rights has granted, punished the Republic of Croatia and therefore. Therefore, taxpayers paid one part of the world-wide difference and the world-wide views of the then state bodies, or the current state bodies. And therefore, we must be very careful when criticising the Ombudsman for keeping an eye on law enforcement and warning the state authorities that they must comply with the law. This is no reason not to accept the Ombudsman's report but to launch an initiative to amend the law if it is in accordance with the Constitution and the Framework Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. And I am deeply convinced that such a change would not withstand a constitutionality test at this point. And finally, let me say something about the classic domain of gender equality. So 1st several weeks ago, the Council for Electronic Media took a concession on 3 days to a television station because of an inappropriate language regarding national minorities. I think there is room in the media that even certain media penalties, not exactly by taking away the concession, at least by warning of a speech that discriminates against one of the sexes, and most often by women, that even valuable media employees working in the Croatian Parliament refrain from daily painting of fashion combinations of our fellow MPs because this is how I experience that our colleagues are thus belittled. And I would also like to say that to other officials, as well as to the presidents of the Republic, who I often criticise, but I think it should stop too, so to watch what she's wearing and in which combination the statesman has received, because that's how she is belittled. And that was done by Jadranki Kosor when she was prime minister. Here I am, not going, to some other political, other political parties. Okay, I'll talk about the women on the lists when there's another law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10754	Replicated representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Bauk. So I did not ask anyone from the HDZ Club through the violation of the Rules of Procedure here in public at the session, the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, and, therefore, by means of an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, asked the Ombudsman not to speak. So don't talk and don't answer the lawyer question. That's exactly what your colleague asked for. If you didn't listen well or you weren't here in the assembly there's a phonogram so listen to it. Thank God the Ombudsman did not listen and answered the question of a respected representative thoroughly and in quality. And I think it is the purpose of democracy and parliamentary debate. In some parts of your debate, I agree with the things you said. I'm sure some things are a kind of violence. We talked about both family settlements and autonomous women's houses. I also have to say very briefly here because of the truth. And I'm not going to tell my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP that they're lying, they're telling the truth. Namely, I was contacted by the President of the Autonomous Women's House Zagreb, Mrs Neva Tolle, who said that three-year financing of the Autonomous Women's House of Zagreb was introduced during the HDZ government. One-third of Zagreb County, one-third of the city of Zagreb, one-third of the ministry and in the last year of the SDP's term of office of the government, such funding has been abolished. Until then, the financing of the shelter was a budgetary item, and now it is a tendering tool that certainly causes both insecurity in work and great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10756	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10757	As far as this last thing you said about the autonomous women's house, so my knowledge is that during the HDZ government, there was a one-year contract, that it's now on three. But if I'm wrong because I'm not really home to what I'm supposed to say, there'll be time for the debate to make it right. And as for this first one, what you said, I listened very carefully and I understood very well what you wanted to say and even I have to admit, that I agree with you. So I think the D.A. could either choose whether or not he wants to answer Mr. Ilcic's question. After all, I don't see any problem in answering and if I don't answer again, I don't see any problem because it's not in the executive power. But what I did with you guys was that it was about your attitude that a long time ago when it was forbidden to talk. What you've said, I can see that you disagree with it, so the next time you're president of your party, you have the opportunity to discuss with him, warn him that such statements are a little different because this way, what I read really turned out to be a very good thing he said at home we'll be able to do what we want but not at the public stage. It's about that. And I'm glad you agree with the good part of my debate, and I agree with one piece of your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10758	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10759	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The replica of my colleague, Bauku, whose little exposure I agree with, points to a problem that has been burdened and lasted for several decades. It's a problem of trans-borns and, as Arsen said, the state shouldn't look in its pants. I'm sure Arsen didn't look in his pants, and definitely so far the state of administration has never looked in anyone's pants. What happens next days, weeks, months, we'll see. The example is very simple. In 2011 the then Minister of Health, Col. Milinović, did not have this moment in the assembly began this Regulation on trans-born persons who of course continued, perfected, improved me as a health minister and today's result which probably does not even know Mrs. Attorney General is next. Trans-born subjects in Croatia were solved over 90% with yesterday's day. Is percent 92, 95, I'm not sure, but the cases have been solved by over 90% of what Arsen's evidence that the state is not looking in its pants. We'll see what happens in the future, and we're here to be truly brilliant. Google, don't Google Barack Obama and underpants, but a trans-born person and Barak Obama, and you'll see that he hired the first trans-born person in the white house on August 19th of last year and you know that for what? For the boss... so for employment, for human potentials and that the government of Canada is likely to make a law and regulation this year, maybe just on the model of the regulation that I have proposed, built and solved the subject of trans-born persons after years and years. Thank you very much, Arsen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10760	Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10761	My emphasis was on the state not looking at the underpants of individuals, leaving them with a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10762	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the sixth hour we're having yesterday and today's debate on this subject and basically my colleague Arsen Bauk has just said the essence of the matter to me. The point is the whole story is that the way things are in your report is very, very probably extreme and probably not going to work out. Although counterpart Majeric spoke very constructively on behalf of the HDZ Club yesterday. In the end, she found one nasty grudge. In the pre-election campaign, HDZ strongly resents you for not defending the character and the work of the president or then the presidential candidate. Although the same HDZ did nothing two months ago, three months ago when much worse things were done to Mrs Mirjana Rakic's colleague, where some colleagues from the Parliament were there, however, no one found fit to defend her dignity and her gender. But here we are all trying so hard to defend the dignity and sex of the former president. All right. But what I'm saying is, as my colleague Glasnovic said just before Miss Krpan who is not here, she's backwards. In this country the last time things have been different political structures and different persons specifically HRAST and Mrs Markic have begun to determine what is supervised, which is advanced, so for the past 6 months we have started to question many things like the Life Partnership Act, again we want to ban abortions, bring down curriculas, and who knows what's going to happen to us, so that the respected Arsene and the esteemed Ombudsman I somehow have to say that by these criteria because fortunately you are not advanced, but because you are backward probably this report and will not pass if the SDP will definitely support it without further support. And what the citizens of Croatia think about this policy, the reverse and progression yesterday showed everyone throughout Croatia and here in the square of Ban Jelačić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10764	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10765	I'm very advanced, and your reverse is relative. If you remember what happened in Veli Mist when Zdravka Krstulović explained to the child that he would only receive a gift for Santa Claus and that he was advanced and that these faithful would receive gifts for Christmas and Santa Claus and that he was backward, but it was not clear to the little one. So that's very relative. As for the attack, or the grudges, they weren't, the attorney general, if she hadn't protected certain officials from the attack, certain political attacks, I'd have read the definition first, I found it on Wikipedia, but it's an announcement of sexism. So sexism is a term for ideology that comes from the setting that physical and mental differences between sexes must reflect on the different position of genders in society. So when you tell a politician or a politician that the fist is a misery, then you didn't say it because you think a man or a woman can be it rather than because it's your political attitude and he's just as good or bad as he told a man or woman. That's my attitude. When you tell someone that they're sticking out of someone else's pocket, you didn't say the same thing because a woman is sticking out of someone's pocket, and otherwise they tell men that they're sticking out of someone's pocket when they want to show a certain polytronism or something else. Therefore, neither politicians nor politicians should be protected because they are not told because she is a woman. But when you tell someone you're in office or you're in office just because you're beautiful and blue or beautiful and blue, that's sexism, that's sexism, and that's what to protect yourself from. And now I don't have time for further explanations. And I've got 10 seconds left. And as for the report, it will pass if we are all in the Parliament tomorrow and if the Most vote for the report. But they haven't spoken out yet because they haven't spoken on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10766	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10767	Dear Mr. Bauk, first of all, I have to say that I'm happy to discuss it with you and that it was nice to listen to you, that you've provided a lot of accurate information that I'm going to say to you happy. First, that political context that I want to speak openly about, and I've already spoken publicly. I'll be clear, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor didn't have much to do with democracy. Thus, it also showed in the Law on Discrimination and also in the Law on Gender Equality, which was also adopted on 15 July 2008 at the last session before the summer break. It is her own that it has nothing to do with democracy when she voted against in a referendum on marriage and when she collated later on in the end line with Mr. Josipovic. So, just when we're talking about a political context, I'm very clear here. I can find one excuse for part of the HDZ that, at the time of the pre-accession negotiations in the EU, the LGBT community pressures on Croatia have been high, and I can elaborate this on you in more detail. But in any case, they influenced Croatian laws. On the other hand, when you were talking about looking in your pants, I need to introduce you to the fact that no one in the country should look in their pants to know the sex of a person. So the fundamental difference between men and women is in the genetic structure, specifically the last pair of genes sexed by the 46 chromosomes, which means the last pair of chromosomes means that the sex in men is always xy, in women is always xx. So, regardless of whether it's brain, bone, muscle, anything is always the difference between men and women. So she talks, too, and I have the body of a man, and the brain of a woman is incorrect. So anyone who's a man and in the brain always has xy. The way he thinks and the psychological stuff about it, I'm not going in right now. Thus, in any case, when laws are done, they influence the political structure. And just to end, I'll say that when you say that some media, when you attack that some media should be banned or eventually punished in some way for insulting them in a sexual way, then I hope that you'll do the same and punish yourself, say, INDEX when it offends the majority, means Christians when it says that when Leopold Bogdan Mandić was a drunk Catholic who was necrophilic, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10768	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10769	I agree that the INDEX should be given at least a friendly review if not anything else, because it was really a little inappropriate for me, and would the institutions find that something is now an institution matter. As far as Mrs. Kosor's assessment of democracy is concerned, I'm not an expert on how much I appreciate it now, but behind you is a person who was the party's chief secretary when she was the party's president, if I remember correctly, before you sits the minister of justice when she was Prime Minister. A little right in front of you is the finance minister who was in her government when she was president who wasn't democratic enough. Mr. Boris was the secretary of state in the government, Mrs. Majeric was the president of Mladži. So I believe that they will explain to you that the party in which they were democratic. She was a democratic, now you're actually the mainstream of that party and I congratulate you on that. You've managed to turn them from HDZ to HRAST DZ which is not bad for you, it's bad for them. I'm actually surprised that you and not Hasanbegovic didn't get elected to the presidency because what you're saying they don't dare speak. You are braver than them, I congratulate you on that. I hope the next list will give you even more MPs because the Parliament would really be richer if there were 2, 3 or 5 Ilčići, they would see an even better difference between us and them. In fact, I think you're the best way to show that it's politics or we or they're very correct because at least we see the difference. At least you can be argued with because you say what you think, not those who don't dare say what they think, and then you don't even know what they think anymore, so they're not pure. It is not bad at all, I hope further discussions in this conference of the Croatian Parliament or in the next because this may not last long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10770	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you have provided for the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, the fate of the Attorney General's Report. I must admit it would not surprise most in the Croatian Parliament to reject the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, but it would embarrass me. I would be puzzled by the fact that yesterday I listened very carefully to the discussion of the headquarters party, i.e. the official position of the HDZ Club of the Democratic Coalition, and in no part of it came forward by Mrs Majeric, who presented this official position of the HDZ, I did not notice any serious objection, remark or reasoned clear and loud position that such a report by the Ombudsman was unacceptable. If this were to happen, we have a situation where the official position of the club is clearly not articulated and does not justify what is, of course, legitimately right, and that the majority of the Parliament vote in some way to enter into a non-confidential vote for gender equality, it would be a broad-scale scandal. This would mean that on behalf of the president, on behalf of the family, on behalf of the HRAST, the attorney for gender equality is being destroyed. However, to do so, they must cross the bridge. I hope that the bridge will be closed that day because it will realize that a fictitious storm has been lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10772	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10773	I'm not really afraid that the Attorney General's report will not be accepted because no one suggested it believe it or not. So the only thing to vote on is a proposal from the Committee on Gender Equality to accept the report. And no one suggested that the report not be accepted. Therefore, the Assembly can either accept the report or do not adopt any position. If someone smart doesn't remember now, then he doesn't go forward with that conclusion that I hope won't pass. And if it doesn't pass, it won't work because they don't have 76 for it. Therefore, this is now a very interesting situation for which I would not want it to come to the conclusion that we need to clarify before the Constitutional Court whether the provision of Article 21(5) means that the Parliament must conclude that it does not accept its report, not only by not accepting the conclusion that the Parliament has not accepted it. I'm not going to the big verbal dribbling now. So, it's not a matter of attorney for gender equality, it's a question of one I'm not going to say holy war because it would be a little too serious, but a wind like this that wants to be blown away by most independent institutions that were truly independent in their work during the last government, and that they were independent shows how much they criticized us. It was a pebble in a shoe. So the vice president of the government can't be a rock in your shoe. The lawyer's task is to be a rock in a shoe and to warn the government of what needs to be fixed and therefore we have four defenders because we have assessed that these groups are to be looked after and which should be a rock in the shoe so that those in power do not relax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10774	Thank you. Replicated representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10775	Dear colleague Bauk, I must say that I have indeed come to the temptation to replicate my colleague Ilicic but the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to do so. I must say, in the first part, that in your own discussion, you've pleasantly surprised me, unlike some of your other, previous advances, you're approaching Mr. Lek's standard. You have condemned the appearance and sexism but also the humiliation of women in politics by all members of the political elite unbound come either from the left or from the right, and that's good. What I didn't like, I didn't like it, you didn't see Milan so you could judge whether someone would vote in particular from the ruling order. Let's say we haven't spoken as a club yet, but you mentioned in your debate that the attorney general is her duty primarily to protect the individuals who were attacked. It is true, but also her duty is not generalizing and condemning the attacks that took place. Her job is that in our opinion she lacks the courage to publicly condemn the individual was on Milanovic, Stazic, Karamarko or someone third. There is no discount, whether it is selected by the left option, the right option. The Ombudsman must clearly condemn any phenomenon that is negative regarding her domain of work in Croatian society. Personally, here I am now searching through search engines, asking if there is any public condemnation of all these relentless events during the campaign, that there is but generally I call on political elites to refrain from negative comments, etc. That's not enough. I'm looking at Mrs. Sobol right now and I believe she'll back me up. There's no left and right in this case. There are people who violate human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10776	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10777	You've noticed very well that my rates are skilled. That's what I thank you for. And I also thank you for this first piece, you're probably surprised by this opening part, and these replicas that took me so well that I realized that too. So, as far as the convictions of these statements that you mentioned other than that of the Dubrovnik Deputy Mayor, the Dubrovnik mayor you didn't mention, so I have to look at what it was, I said they weren't statements that this prosecutor would have to condemn. So it was something that was said in a political debate that could be said to both man and woman. So I've listed exactly what statements I'm referring to. If you've found any more statements, we can discuss this, see if we agree on that, because I believe we might agree on that. And as for your desire to replicate to Mr. Ilcic, I remind you of the business opportunity to apply for a debate on behalf of the club and everything you have to say to Mr. Ilcic in five minutes for the debate and he will replicate to you, you will replicate to him. We'll be glad to have you in the Patriot coalition fighting with each other and everything. I mean, it's parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10778	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10779	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Bauk, you said as allowed some of the statements that it was possible for a politician or politician to tell you you fell out of your pocket. Well, maybe it's possible, but it's very dangerous. That's why I'm noticing that you keep your hands in your pocket through the discussions so that it doesn't happen again that some Baldazar falls out of your pocket and that man gets hurt. It's really a serious problem, if it's not punishable. Secondly, you mentioned yesterday's protest and everyone's kind of proud of the protest. There's one statement here, one that no one has mentioned saying, "I don't even know why I'm here, if we're all for reform." The man carries a big transparency on all the portals is now. And you didn't respond to counterpart Paric's reply that he hurt the president by calling her ex-boyfriend on two occasions. The president, as far as I know, is still president today. So it's easy to check, it's easy to check. My colleagues here heard it very well on two occasions. And you didn't say it through the answer, but I'm going to first refer and agree with you in the final press. I agree with you, absolutely as far as the media is concerned, and not only in that segment, but in a number of other segments, not only in the dress or confectious way that you said it where I absolutely agree, but also in a series of other segments. Recently, seven, eight days ago there was a family protest or as it was, two ladies stood before that protest and all the portals were heroines. Now, here's what day there's going to be a protest of the LGBT community in Split and imagine someone standing in front of that protest, he'd be a hooligan, a barbarian or whatever. Give the gentlemen of the media, here's a pro for what Mr. Bauk is saying, have the same archaic for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10780	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10781	As for standing in front of the protest, it is necessary to distinguish standing in front of the protest, which we had the opportunity to see on this trail, "Hod for Life", I think I said exactly, and standing on the side of the protest with a certain amount of rock in our hand with the intention of throwing it on it. That's what we had in Split in 2011. That was in Split. That's why we might already agree you'll call yourself a hooligan. I mean, it's also a felony, you know, good, probably. Of course, expressing his political attitude and dissent must never question others to express their position. And I respect people who walked last Saturday and expressed their attitude. I just don't agree with their possible intention to impose that attitude on everyone. I don't agree with that. And that's probably why until it's clear, until the meaning of it is clear because they said very clearly, at this point we're not going to launch an initiative to amend that law, but you know how it is, one walk, another walk, and then a third walk, so we better figure it out right now. As for the hand in the pocket. As you can see, I'm inclined to accept criticism, so now I'm careful where I hold my hands. But when I keep my hands in my pocket, I make sure they're in mine and not in someone else's pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10782	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10783	You have concluded your basic debate by saying that time is running out and you wanted to talk about the position, or places of women on the lists. I'm very sorry that you didn't talk about it because I know that you've advocated the ZIP system. And I really think that true equality or attempt to improve the affirmation of women in politics will not be without such a single step. Because it's not your own purpose. Because politics is too serious to be left to men or most men alone. She was particularly interesting, and I think she could finally understand someone who has so far not been clear when you spoke about birth identity stressing the same values that the attorney pointed out and about gender equality. I'll go back to that term of gender equality which you're trying to explain yourself, does not mean even denying birth differences. She just wants to highlight the fundamental outcome of all other equality that the visibility and role of women in society must be equal and equal opportunities. That birth roles that have been through history and through tradition and often society as well as knowingly, which does not consciously perpetuate that the role is from small legs, the girl is given and compared to men. Well, we'll see about that through the textbooks. And this is particularly emphasized by the Ombudsman for gender equality, and this is the most resentful of certain conservative circles that are essentially ashamed to say that they do not recognise the equality of men and women, and often there are some women who certainly take part in the position they have and in the profession would not have had the hard-working women throughout history not pushing this wheel of progress constantly forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10784	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10785	Although it would now be very popular of me to say that I stood up for the ZIP system, the truth is quite the opposite. I was the opponent of the solution that we put into the Law on Elections of Representatives that a list that doesn't have 40% of women fall, because I thought it would fall in the Constitutional Court and I was right. What was paradoxical, though, was that it was the request of a democratic party of women. However, I exposed myself to criticism when I said that the parties would not be punished for not having 40% of the women, so eventually the state's attorney concluded that too. And I also believe that the solution in the Law on Gender Equality in the Violation of Parties is totally unnecessary and unnecessary, that it should be abolished, that it should not be burdened with courts but that there should be greater monetary incentives for parties with more women, not on lists, because it is essentially irrelevant if you put women in 7-14 places than they have in Parliament. There is no point in punishing a party with 1% which is known not to cross the threshold because there is not a single woman on the list and missing a party that is certain to get 5 or 7 MPs in one election unit but not punish her for putting one woman in the third place and another 5 women on the bottom of the list. That's, so that's what I used to be, which I thought I should. I still think, therefore, that's what I meant to say about the Law on Gender Equality, so that parties must be encouraged by higher amounts from the budget because they have age and gender balance in the composition of the representative body and not on the lists, because that is irrelevant and that the difference that you get for one representative over the represented and the sub-represented sex is not 10, but maybe 50%, and then it will still be one type and then the Constitutional Court said, the Constitutional Court said that it is, but therefore you do not polarise only the Constitutional Court has said that it is unconstitutional and you may change that when you are in a position to decide again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10786	Thank you. Next in the debate, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10787	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in this replica, my colleague Bauk spoke of political women's participation. I believe that something similar and can also be heard by HDZ colleagues about political participation from colleagues from their own party. But this is something that we will clearly resolve in the debates that will be here because we are aware of this issue we do not agree on even when it comes to our own parties. But, therefore, about what else I would like, I took part in replicas, say about this report. I must say that some colleagues gave me one creamworth to enter into this debate with their views spoken yesterday and today during the day. A colleague said that regarding the Law on Discussing Discrimination then Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor had nothing to do with democracy. So, to say what is democratic and what is not good is that all those who talk about it and propagate that in public acts, associations that support them, who support them, adhere to those principles because if what Jadranka Kosor has made a lot of commitment to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination had nothing to do with democracy. I'll put it this way, but apparently with democracy and the values of democracy they have, for example. Members of certain political parties, in this case the largest party in power, e.g. They have their own companies and they make money by advertising and dealing with the services of sexy chat. It's okay. That's very moral. That's not hypocritical at all. And on the other hand, you're the same one from the Patriot coalition that's gonna sell us morals and values jokes. Is it democratic that in the name of the family Mrs. Zeljka Markić and the head organizer along with other associations walk for life. So, it goes to this, under the company walk for life goes towards a ban on abortion and at the same time through its firm and those who co-finance it, sponsor it, therefore, it deals with the investigation of birth control drugs and what is worse I suppose the pill later. And the company it's about, for example. Teva, do we know that somewhere? We know who this company Teva is and who we are today from this government-led company that actually works and doesn't exist. It's democratic, not hypocritical at all. It is therefore democratic to tell people that you are walking for life, defending the rights of pregnant women, mothers, workers, announcing the participants of the protest announced the next step, it is a ban on abortion and at the same time receiving money from those who deal with production and birth control pills or those who chat, sexy chat through their companies. It's okay. When we talk about the problem of violence, I thought I wouldn't talk about it, but I have a need to say. I said it in one line today. We are talking about the problem of violence against women, we are investigating an increase in the number of violent forms of violence against increasingly brutal acts of violence. At the same time we close our eyes, for the last 25 years, we've been coming out of an educated system by young generations who think it's perfectly normal to hit a woman. Preferably, that's okay, that's cool. Such generations of young people come out to us. I wonder what hours they teach them. I wonder what they're told in parish churches. I mentioned it yesterday. Yes, yesterday I mentioned a parish priest from a Belarusian parish who gives lectures and introduces into a married life, tomorrow's married life of young couples to tell them at the same time that the woman who is subject to a man who has to suffer if not for nothing else because of the children and that she must always be ready for her husband. Now you can explore your colleagues and colleagues. These are our rural, rural environments. I don't have the illusion that something like this isn't happening in urban areas. And then we're surprised, we're digging up about how violence against women is in increased numbers and, of course, whether we're giving enough or not as a society to finance shelters. About the shelter, I don't think there should be any difference between us coming from that left, you coming from the right, the center, etc. And we have to agree that we have the problem of financing shelters for the last 20, 25 years. When I talk about what has been done, in 20089 years if I am not mistaken or in 2009, then the Deputy Prime Minister has agreed on tripartite contracts for the financing of the shelter, therefore, city or county. And they've been rebuilding each year. Now I'm going to ask myself how many local communities have contributed to these contracts? In 2012, in order to ensure in some way how little longer financial stability the shelters were then financed or the contracts were signed for three years. And last year, a good part of the shelter decided to finance through the mains, and one part through the projects. But I think we should all imagine together and see how and how we can solve this problem in a much better way than it is today. And what I'm saying has nothing to do with whether I'm SDP and someone else from HDZ. And in the end, I'd like to say the attorney's report one more time, so I fully support him, and I supported him, and I had the opportunity to discuss all the reports and those late first lawyers and these. So, I support this report. I think there's progress in the work of the office itself year after year. The problem we have is that we obviously don't recognize here in the House the importance of these independent institutions through which we here in the Parliament can seek and insist on the government, the ministries, the offices, regardless of whether they are now mine or they are now someone else's this year. Therefore, to insist on the implementation of the conclusions and recommendations made by the Advocate General. That's what I dare say we've never used up until now as Parliamentarians in the right way. Neither in the matter of the attorney general nor in the case of these other defence attorneys today are specifically related to the lawyer for gender equality. And what I most support, I support their independence. And let them do it because what they do is recognized, what they recommend in their reports that are not 30 but on over 300 pages is something that let us use and change the laws ourselves, change policies in the direction of what is recommended by the lawyer for gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10788	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course I agree with my colleague Sobol. The facts are as she said, but from that, only three points. First one under quotes “criticals, ” the second one self - criticism and the third, of course, one commendation. The criticism refers to... Or the pill later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The products are... and she applied to the FDA in 2011. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when the pharmaceutical company applied to the FDA, they refused. And then they gave the amendment, just like we did in Parliament, so they said ok... offers to take it to women of America and around the world where she has her product over 15 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How? Like... How? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like OTC. How? They come, they knock, they buy, and they're over 15 years old. And yes, the fact is it's been approved after a few years. Comrade self-critics is of course a list of women in the Parliament, including my party and my coalition. Unfortunately, there aren't enough women in the Parliament today. Both in my party and in my coalition and in the Patriot coalition. I am convinced that on the basis of this report, which of course I fully support this situation will be better. But to adopt this report, then we must all be in the House, like seven days ago when we were here at 7, 8 and unfortunately the Attorney General's report didn't go through. If we were all accepted. And of course one commendation, you have a good example probably in a whole series of cities, places and counties but I will tell the county which has grown to me the heart of the PGG led by Zlatko Komadin in a way that of 12 heads 7 is the head office, so it's not... but 65%-35%, and in the assembly, the ratio is exactly 50%-50%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is hope for Croatia, there is hope just to see ourselves in Komadin and PGG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10790	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10791	Thank you. All I'm going to do is thank you, colleague Rajko for the replica, about political participation. So my attitude is famous. I stand for it, I stand for the odds, and I stand for the zip system. There is no money that some parties will receive at the expense of the sub-represented sex or women, and thanks to whom they will put more women on the list. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There is no such case known in the world in Europe because it has proved that the parties prefer to pay for the penalty, to pay the fines, rather than to put women on the lists. And if we think it's okay to discuss decisions, laws, policies and strategies in this country at the state level, so in Parliament they lead with the presence of 15% to 20% of women ignoring the fact that in the population in Croatia over 50% of women, then I think there's something wrong with our society. Because as my colleague said when the lists are drawn together, they're all full of quality, ability, expertise and then it turns out that these criteria apply only to women, they're still being added unconsciously and looks or consciously even years old, and for men, they're meant to be quality, they're professional, they're capable, they're smart, so they're a couple of years old and they're probably wise.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10792	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10793	Dear Mrs. Sobol, I don't think it's right when someone on the side of the SDP elaborates what's democratic and what's not. I won't take it as my right to say what is social democratic which is not, I may express my suspicion or opinion but not the way you are arbitarian. Let me think that I know more about democracy than you do, so I'm going to say that... an encycle that speaks precisely about how a Christian should behave says that a faithful layman should not vote in favour of a program or a law that directly contradicts church morality, Christian morality. Which means that the policy of one party means when I say about Mrs. Kosor, that's exactly what it means when something is done that directly contradicts in the program, not when a person inside the party commits something that is not democratic. Clearly, then, those who were also writing and thinking about church science knew that no party would be perfect and that they would be wrong about something that did not mean that at that time democracy would cease. So, it's clear that the difference between what I said and what I said is clear that I don't justify at all anyone from any party who's called a democracy doing something that's opposed to Christianity. Secondly, I hope you want to speak objectively, if you want to speak objectively, then I hope that you are just as much effort as you have spent looking for this speech by the parishioner from Bjelovar or who you already have at the engagement course, spent and taking out all the positive speeches in the church that talk about having to accept, love and treat the woman equally legally and I assure you and my opinion is that I suppose I am much more in the church than you that there is incomparably more of that speech than this example that you have set. So here you go, begging for objectivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10794	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10795	Thank you. I think that in this House everyone can talk about everything that they think is important, take examples, and I don't know what makes you think that I shouldn't talk about the values of democracy, Christianity? Because I'm not a believer? Maybe because I was baptized, maybe because I was a godmother twice, maybe I could talk then? Or do I have to say some things to make you feel like I'm allowed to talk about anything at all? I am certainly allowed, and especially may, and I would like to point to double morals and hypocrisy of those who, on the one hand, advocate life, walk in the process, seek bans on abortions and, on the other hand, receive the money neatly from the companies that produce birth control, pills for the day after, and thus the wife of the board of the women of our prime minister today finds herself saying that it is prudent to support all the "Hed for Life". I suppose it's reasonable for her husband as a member of the board to receive money from such a firm. And the second part I spoke about had to be hypocrisy because individuals, or parties, advocate certain moral values and on the other hand, their members make good money by offering sexy chats. It's moral and it's democratic. It's not for me, it's not for me, and you're not going to take away my right to talk about it that way. And I want to be objective, praise every time I need to, and this priest I pulled out to say so is because on one commercial television there was a nice contribution in the diary, and I accidentally watched the diary and heard what the man was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10796	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10797	Comrade Sobol, I think you're chasing two concepts Christian and democratic. You're wondering if it's democratic to represent one another and do the other. It's called hypocrisis. I don't know how much you know Christianity in public virtues and secret vices of the entire party, the democracies have disappeared, for example. in Italy. So if I were you, I'd try to be more specific in terms. If you're wondering, if you're wondering if what a certain Christian does is right, then I would agree with Mr. Ilcic any party has any. But I'm telling you, the democratic parties have gone missing on the basis of one claim and another. So believe me, I don't know if the hypocrisis is Christian, I believe it isn't, but I'm sure it's not a Christian, but it's a Christian god.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10798	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10799	I thank my colleague Furio Radin. I was like my colleague Ilcic, I was saying at that time that he said it wasn't democratic, and I looked back on it. But about that, of course, there are all kinds of parties in the party today, the question is, because when I speak and related around here is the particular person who has a company that deals with sexy chat services that's also the financier of that party. That's what I was talking about. So I don't have the illusion that these are all wonderful, and they're like this, like this. Of course there are all kinds of us. I'm just talking about how and from those, nice, neatly taking money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10800	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ljubica Ambrusec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10801	Honorable Vice President, esteemed attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs. By listening to both yesterday and today, discussions about gender equality, which I greatly appreciate, but I feel that we are weakly touching the role of mother, or roles of women who have decided to give birth to more children in their lives. Namely, the appeal from the field offered me out of actually those mothers who have more than 3, 4, 5 children, their appeal is that when they give birth to, say, 4, 5 children to get the status of mothers, or teachers in their home. The appeal was made in a way that I could transfer their initiative here to the Parliament and put this initiative into the legal framework. They think and I personally think that in this way, a demographic picture of this direct Croatia would be improved in terms of obtaining the status of a teacher so that they could certainly devote more to their children and certainly give birth to more children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10802	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to pollemize who's a good Christian and who's a good socialist. The election is judged by voters, and I think it's crucial how we live life and the values we represent how we transfer to our daily lives. And we won't be estimating it, someone else will be estimating it. And I think that's why such a debate is completely unnecessary. I would like to join in the replica regarding the last part of the presentation of the distinguished representative where you said and I agree with you, so it is actually a consensus to fight violence, especially domestic violence and violence against women and children that we should not and should not be politically divided. During these discussions yesterday and today, we pointed out that surely the city of Zagreb has a relatively well-solved problem of shelter for women victims, for women and children of victims of domestic violence while other cities and counties are hardly at all. And that should be the absolute goal and priority of all of us. It doesn't matter which political option we belong to or from which political parties we come. And for this reason, I also pointed out during the debate that the Autonomous Women's House Zagreb, which was the first such kind of shelter ever founded in Croatia, was at the very beginning and independence of our country and that for many years, of course, it was struggling with funding, that during the HDZ government it entered the budgetary position which is good because it is certain. And that during the last term of the SDP, the government has now entered this competition section where it must compete year after year for funding and thus also leads to the uncertainty and instability of their work. And from year to year, these women who work in the autonomous women's house and all the users don't know if they'll be able to finance themselves next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10804	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10805	Comrade Mađerić, I think I've made myself clear and said I didn't think there should really be any difference when it comes to financing the shelter. Unfortunately, that's where we get into a situation where these victims of violence are actually being debated, who should finance it, is it a matter of local community? Well, then you know yourself that you have an example that there's not a shelter in town in the county headquarters. Then the county says they don't have the funds so they give some kind of minimal. As a matter of fact, it is only this city and there are women from all over Croatia in those shelters, and in some border areas and Bosnia and Herzegovina were therefore users of these shelters. I know that, perhaps it would be best if we tried to return to the unique Law on the financing of shelters. We tried that, somewhere in 2005, 06, 07, and we already have, there's practically a law on financing shelters, and primarily when it comes to autonomous women's shelters, but you'll agree there'll be problems. Because one thing is when you have safe houses that are, they have a contract with the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the other is when you have autonomous safe houses that, by different rules, work differently with these women and mostly with children who come with these women. And there's a problem, and we can't close our eyes to it anymore, there's a problem. In 2012, the last government introduced the three-year-old, and then all the shelters signed this three-year contract guaranteeing them some three years as much unique resources as in the case of the state budget, and then in the last year they went to the system, so the offer was either through the principal or application of the competition or through the project. They chose each other, and we can see that's not the happiest solution either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10806	Replica esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Sobol, I agree there's a lot of hypocrisy in politics. But didn't two weeks ago on your side prove to be a certain hypocrisy in the attorney general's vote. So your mouth was full of human rights so that the report couldn't fall. You knew certain people at the Most would support that report. The HSLS representative club also declared itself, some from the patriotic coalition and did not show up for the vote, which is why the report fell. Wasn't that on some side hypocritical because if you had come all the way to Parliament, what happened wouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10808	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10809	I'm just gonna say, I'm sorry, but I've been lying there with a head like this at home, or a tooth. If you want to call me, if you want to call me personally. I don't know if they're all MPs on the other side and from the middle, too. were here. But saying that that's because you didn't come, that's why the report came down. Please, nice. Please, nice. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, or the Patriot coalition, voted as they voted. Don't always switch the ball to the opposition of your dear colleague. Watch yours and watch that you did not fight, which you did not as a coalition partner condition and asked your partner of the Patriot coalition to vote for this report as an independent, as a report from an independent institution. Now you're gonna say it's our fault. Well, I don't think you'll get away with it. A colleague, especially after everything that's been going on lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10810	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10811	Mrs. Sobol, I don't usually answer when it comes to replicas. However, you've set up a few thesis here that seemed to me to be pure manipulation. You spoke of democracy as a political concept that you evaluated through the weaknesses of people who eventually find themselves in that party. There is no party in which there are no individuals who are not worthy members of the party and therefore do not Satanize us with a political concept because there are bad individuals. We are all at a certain point bad individuals, people are with our mistakes, if you will and hypocrite, but one truly political concept that I believe as president of the Croatian Democratic Party is the only one who at this point is in this House, who has that in his name. I'm sorry you say that, and then the conclusion is that these parties have failed because they were hypocritical. So there are inconceivable repercussions, inconceivable repercussions to a political programme which also respects the fact that in a democratic party they can be believers but not a condition, can be those who do not believe, the question is to accept the political values that come from Christian values and mix it with people's character, I don't think it's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10812	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10813	So here's a colleague. So, at a time when I'm going to say this, our streets are worth the moves that want to degrade the standards that such Croatia has achieved, which want to threaten the right to choose, who want to impose their fears, who want to stop education reforms, so under the motto, you want democracy, Christianity, some values, conservative ones like this, at the same time, and at the same time the leaders or leaders of these associations live in a way that they speak, the other works and receive money from the third. Well, you'll forgive that, in direct contrast to what they want to impose on all of us. My friend, that's what I want to talk to you about. And in this House, it's hypocrisy for me, it's what my colleague says... and the hypocrisis and whatever you want to call it that, but I want to talk about it, and in this assembly, not accusing not of generalizing any option, not accusing or generalising, but those who appear as leaders of those associations based on Christian values, I'm going to repeat one speech, another doing, and from thirds they receive money, from those who directly contradict themselves with what they intercede and try to impose on us. I'll talk about it whether you like it or not. I say no generalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10814	Thank you. Next is the debated representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I was already talking yesterday about the difference between gender equality and gender equality. That's a hell of a difference. Here I am pleased that Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović came in because she was talking about gender equality today. So these concepts are mixed, and there are very large differences, and that is why I appeal to talk about gender equality. It's a constitutional category, and we have here before us a lawyer for gender equality, not gender equality. It is based primarily on the Law on Gender Equality, of course it can be called upon to other laws on combating discrimination, family law, etc. But I still think she should work on gender equality in a global way. How she does that job, first thing to do is to set up what's the key. So I'm going to say the first two facts, so most women in Croatia want to have children, most women in Croatia want to work, want to be employed. The coordinated two things are an extremely difficult task that has already been discussed today and yesterday. However, that particular part should be the first part of the one that the D.A. should do. So, it hurts me terribly when I listen to women's voices from the field today that if they have a month's contract and it goes on for a month and a month and then they ask them if you're going to stay pregnant, will you just get married as soon as you're married and they just don't extend her contract and stuff? I expect the D.A. to ask the competent institutions to look for these people every week, those employers who ask such questions when hiring, etc. I ask that this issue of demographics directly related to this issue be devoted to much more space than one page was devoted to the Ombudsman. I haven't seen a lawyer come to, say, a union of marriage meetings that just for your information gathers over 5,000 couples, meaning about 10,000 people working on marriage communication. Which is terribly important just to achieve this equality. I didn't see a lawyer supporting the family-richness she's working on right now to create good family and marriage relationships. I didn't see that she welcomed engagement courses that didn't, they don't say what Mrs. Sobol said, or maybe if it's an exception, but they're talking right now and they're working on this communication that's extremely important. So this demographic, what I think is crucial to all women that I can give birth, that I can work, that I can coordinate these two things is dedicated to demographics 1 page with general things with the excuse that the state should take care of it more, which I absolutely agree with. Of course, it's not up to the D.A. to develop programs and implement demographic policy, but it's a question of how much attention it pays to that. Because after that 147th page, we have 12 pages that talk about homosexuality, about discrimination against gender minorities. So 1 page here and 12 pages there. When we talk about it, then, and I think about everything when we compare this relationship, so I know that the Ombudsman will now speak for 5 minutes after that, or half an hour, which has the right to justify her actions. I'm not arguing that she'll find some groundbreaking ground for what she's doing. I'm just talking about her assessment and she'll decide what she'll pay more attention to, which she'll pay less attention to. I from everything she did, and now I'm going to give a few more examples, and I see that she used discrimination just as much as the attorney general whenever someone pointed out some value then speaking about discrimination against those who didn't want those values actually wanted to silence this first one. Let's just say when the child's attorney did her research on health care last year. How much did they spend? We all know that after Mr. Jovanovic left, Minister Mornar actually covered up that health education in some way and that no one was carrying him out. The D.A. claimed that there was nothing controversial in that medical education, nothing unconstitutional. After that, the Constitutional Court suspended him. Mr. Jovanovic practically brought him back to school. And we know why he wasn't having fun. When doing that research, she does not ask how relationships are discussed in health education, communication between young men and girls. No, she's doing research on homophobic student attitudes. So you can see where her accent is. When there was a referendum on marriage as I said yesterday, the D.A. was openly involved in the campaign, she did not act at all impartially on what she was calling out earlier. We just heard that she expressed her view of civic education as a mandatory subject. It means he thinks he has the ingenuity to express that attitude. When I asked her for her attitude about religious science in schools, then she said no, I have no authority to talk about how you in the Parliament define it, so I'll say. So, in other words, there's no point of view. When we talk about a referendum on marriage, or am I interested in whether the Ombudsman wants to respect children, does she respect the Constitution and the part that is most democratically introduced into the Constitution that says that marriage is a community of women and men? What does a lawyer do when people beg for life? So you have the action “40 days for life”, she considers it discrimination and asks to create a buffer zone. It means he's moving away from people. Have you heard if someone thinks in a plural society that abortion is something bad, if they think life is something good, if they want to affect consciousness then they have to work buffer zone? Did you see the child's attorney say that when someone was saying something against smoking that she was looking for a buffer zone to get these people out of the way, so they wouldn't affect women? So that's what I'm talking about imposing my own attitude. What a lawyer for children has with a pill... You were saying birth control pills, so you specifically added a pill a day later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're aware that, of course, when you're talking about the pill for the day after which it has an effect and the day after, of course, if it's the day after ovulation, it's clear that there's been a conception. It means at least there's a scientific suspicion that it's also abortional. To talk about the fact that not all the consequences of that pill have been clearly investigated. And Mrs. Attorney General is going to ask that she can, she's going to the medical chamber to suggest that girls, meaning under the age of 18, make it possible without a prescription. What does that have to do with gender equality? So I conclude from all that, from all of this, that gender equality should be realized that men can't give birth, so then we go and make women not even give birth. You understand? That's not it. I don't think a woman is being born that she's being denied, that she's being sentenced to some terrible fate. I consider birth and children something good, something men can't and women can't. And where all of us as a society need to help to bring this together and have women on the labour market and to align their family and professional lives. So, all I was saying now shows that the Ombudsman for children in the sense in which she was supposed to work on gender equality and the key things she didn't pay enough attention to, and with double standards according to her, I'm not saying that it wasn't justified, according to her estimates, she was involved in an ideological struggle that, in my opinion, had nothing to do with gender equality. There were words here that some of us should be ashamed to talk about not knowing traditional or patriarchal or what, I don't know what they're already calling us. Just to be clear to you in person, so my wife and I have five children, at home when the kids were little, I was the one, whenever I was at home, who was overdoing diapers, who now with my daughter who's young, I'm making her sleep, I'm washing toilets, and Mrs. Ilic was saying, and in my opinion, a lot more male move, you need to be a little tight when you're fishing, etc. That's what I'm talking about. I'm advocating programs that will talk about these crackdowns of male and female stereotypes where I guess when a man comes home from work, he should read the paper and the woman should serve. So we had a lot in common. When Mr. Bauk said that either us or them, I guess I'm saying what he sees is the difference between us and you, I don't think so at all. I know the media is trying to make me some kind of extremist. So when I say that Mr Milanovic's preferences are not exactly our own, then the Index will convey that Mr Milanovic's preferences are contrary to our preferences. So they make as much contrast as possible. I think we have a lot in common and that we should work on what is really gender equality. And I hope, come on, I'll do that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10816	Time. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10817	I'm glad you guys are helping out at the house and I'm helping out at the house. As far as gender equality and gender equality are concerned, it means to recognise gender equality without us SDP women being here in 2000, and here we are sitting together that we have seen gender equality rise to the constitutional level. And talking about gender equality and not respecting gender equality means being pardoned for being hypocritical. Because gender equality just wants women equal in society, not that they're given certain social roles, and you're saying that we have in common, I'm glad if you admit it, then you recognize gender equality. That the birth is not a given role of a woman and a man, and I see that one association just resents that of a lawyer who recognizes it as hidden and even in some parts and explicit forms of discrimination which warns about what roles boys are, and which girls, which colors are reserved for men, which are for women. When you talk about abortion, who ever said abortion was good? But the state needs to see what's worse than that. And certainly, abortions would be less if education among young people were more without hypocrisy and had been educated in the right place, not by anyone who knows what kind of yellow print or any shows or magazines. But what I've never heard, and what I should have heard, that's what you should be more involved in, and in those places where you are right now, a man is then the most to be with a woman. But then they ran away from their own wife and from their own responsibilities or girlfriends and took care of others. Here, let me finish. You say here and yesterday they're not God's days. I think you believe we're all here for God's sake, and it's not just God's days that think like you, and the rest are days.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10818	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10819	First I said what I was doing at home, I didn't say I was helping. The second thing, so I fully agree with you in substance, is that I'm just talking about social, social and social roles. You're talking about the social roles of the storks. I just want to direct you, so we're thinking the same thing about a man and a woman. And I'm against being told in the beginning you don't know you're a boy you need to play trombone and tuba, and you're a little girl you can play the flute. So I'm against it. So we have excellent male fluteists and even female trombones to be clear. So I'm against it, I'm against it, I'm against it, I'm just against changing names of sex and gender. I can tell you a lot about this: Women's Network, CESI, etc. I don't want to elaborate now. And so I'd just like you to get confused about where some of us were led by a prank, to put it aside and stay where we can be together. Then about the abortion, I agree with you again that if we had a better education to have fewer abortions. I agree with that. Of course, we probably won't agree on what that education should look like, or we've tried to get along over the past 10 years, so we didn't get along. And then we had a fight, and today I don't have anything in schools. I hope that we will reach a democratic standard in which I will raise my children in our own way, and believe me, I will do very much so that there will be no abortion, and you will probably raise your children in your own way, and surely you will not want your children to go on abortion. Let these ways be different and have different approaches to the programme of sexual education and that both can be part of the school system. And I really don't think it's a God-given day, that someone's the devil's day. I don't know exactly what you were on yesterday, what I said about Jokic? ... Well, look, I only appealed to what Mr Milanovic confirmed and that they were chosen from politics. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as far as I see it now and the public accepts that it's normal for someone not to fall out of the sky to say so, that someone who got the citizens' trust and it was politics that Milanovic, or Minister Mornar named him. And that just as they did in their share, they did a political job of affecting that group, so also now someone else who is in that position that has a certain political responsibility should be given a default, and apparently some work needs to be done on the curriculum by doing that part of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10820	Replica's esteemed representative Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10821	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Ilčić, you have, through your presentation on several occasions and I would say, through examples, apostrophe or better specified the political habitat of the Ombudsman, but that is what I can sort of agree on through these examples. But we'll agree to that, because the legislation needs to be regulated. You don't expect the Social Democrats to have the legislation necessary in this segment, on gender equality, but above all I mean in the protection of motherhood and paternity, which I especially want to stress for the second time already today because you can't expect the Social Democrats to sort of regulate the relationship between a mother and three, four or more children, and that she has the status of an educator within her own family. It also contributes to the demographic picture of Croatia. You can't expect the Social Democrats through their laws, through some laws they pass, to arrange a relationship to be an employer punished if a pregnant woman is used in her workplace. You can't expect a number of other segments in that part, although I would say so on the other hand that there are all of us in the democratic option but believe in the social democratic option as well. They're called the Social Democrats, and that move puts 1,100 people out of the party. They're Democrats. Therefore, for these values, the principles of democracy, we are not talking about individuals but should generally be advocated through the institutions of the Croatian Parliament, through the ministries and the Government to really protect motherhood and paternity, because this is an aspect of the future of the Croatian state in a number of segments and above all in the demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10822	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10823	Thank you, Mr. Boban. If I thought I could expect it from the SDP, I probably wouldn't engage politically, even though I have to say I'm a little more ambitious. So I expect that the SDP will be the good measures that will be good measures and respect the choice option, so neither you nor you are in favour of imposing the status of a parent mother on someone but thus giving them that possibility. Yes, and the SDP makes it possible. So I think that part should be undeniable and should not be subject to political change as it happened in 2001 when the SDP abolished the three-year maternity leave so we had the 2001 automatically terrible drop that you see today, these are children who are enrolling in high school today, see, look at you by high school as much as you have 100, 200 children less than last year. So these are very, very dangerous things that affect, as one message they have a bad impact on society. I think we really need to get to one consensus here. So I think that if something is set up as wrong, as Communism has been established, which everyone has been saying is the most modern system. I learned that in elementary school. Later it turned out to be no good, so it gave up. So gender ideology was interpreted as something of the most modern, as a new form of human rights, so the Scandinavian breeding institute that promoted this work ideology because it proved to be a charlatanism of science. So scientists from the world have abolished it. So I expect one consensus in what we really have to do together in terms of improving and gender equality and demographic situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10824	Thank you. Replicated representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ilčić, I can't help but think that you actually wrote through your presentation or presented a very precise indictment to Mrs. Attorney General for Gender Equality. What actually doesn't surprise me, but what I can see is that this indictment is incredibly similar to this letter sent by the Association "In the Name of the Family", on 19 May 2016 under the application for the rejection of the attorney for gender equality report. From that point on, I'm going to call it that, I'm painting myself writing in this letter that we've received from the MPs and what you've just pointed out. It's amazing how on the one hand you give the attorney general authority where she's gone, so when you say you need to ensure that women can reconcile family and professional life. No, because of the state, you're in power and the state is responsible at every level. The state, a local unit, a unit of regional self-government in which it will provide public service to help a woman reconcile those two aspects of her life. On the other hand, you do not give her responsibility, for example, to care for the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality. Because if that weren't the case, then you wouldn't have anything to do with health care that says in four modules, module 3 and 4 prevention of violent behavior and gender equality is responsible sexual behavior. This is what children need to learn at school and this will contribute to better implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and then ultimately to greater equality of women with men in society. And third, I wish I could agree with you when you say we have a lot in common. Mr. Ilcicu, mine and your picture of Croatia are not the same. In my Croatia there is freedom, in your Croatia there is control.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10826	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10827	I don't know why it's amazing for you to find my exposure similar to that of "In the name of the family." Well, I'm one of the "In the Name of the Family" triggers and a referendum on marriage at the very least to say so. And of course when we talk about health care that "In the name of the family" will convey it and vice versa, you understand. So I don't see anything controversial here, I don't know if it's some kind of stigmatization that I should be ashamed of or something. The other thing is when we talk about criticism, or what you said about the defense attorney's verdict. I'm hoping that the attorney general for gender equality won't say as the attorney general that we rejected her report because we're against human rights. Well, look, it's completely illogical. So the defense attorneys are our envoys, our human rights commissioners. The only thing that makes sense is that we rejected the attorney general's report is that we say we're not satisfied that she defended human rights and that's what this is about. So I'm not making any judgments. I'm making my point, and I guess I'm right about that. The other thing, as far as the terms are concerned, I'm not asking that counsel. I mean, we know very well that you and I are the attorney general's powers. I was saying that I wanted to talk every week and call the inspector about the work to check that etc. Not to repeat what I said he was saying, which is within her authority. Then, as far as our community or not our community is concerned. I really think it's a lot bigger than you might think about at this point about these freedoms. Anyway, I'd like to be well-intentioned. Today there's a lot of talk in the media, yesterday on the morning list, HRAST is probably the main pillar of reform and I don't know what. So the impact of HRAST is not great politically, you can see it yourself but the influence of the arguments is great and I, what I'm saying are arguments, they're undetermined influences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10828	Replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Ilcic isn't us, we don't have something in common, and that's what I believe, unlike you, that as an independent body, he is with his associates exactly in the framework of a law which, whose implementation follows, that is, the Law on Gender Equality, and that is the part of the law on the fight against discrimination and adheres to the exact powers that she has. These two days from the Patriot coalition come grudges and here I agree with my colleague Sabina exclusively paper on behalf of the family. We all got it. Of course, it is the right of each representative or representative to take and to read or use only one association. Unlike you, and that's what you mentioned to the attorney general's report yourself. That also proved to be true in the discussion of that report. In fact, you think these defense attorneys must protect the rights of those you think should be protected and you forget that the defense attorneys are here to protect human rights because human rights are the right of an individual and one of the rights that one group can in no way compromise or reduce the right of another. He can't, he can't. Well, that's something we've plotted in our laws. I'm sorry, but the stunts for at least 10, 15 years for what we've been opening discussions here in this House, making laws, changing laws from the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, the Advocates' Office, etc., etc. simply cascades. I cannot agree with you there that you are seeking some rights in accordance with your own movements at the same time making it impossible for all other citizens and citizens who are different from you to exercise their full rights as citizens and citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10830	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10831	So, first of all, you said we disagreed about the powers of the attorney general. I'll tell you we agree. I didn't say at all that she was doing something unfounded. So, she's, I'm talking about the relationship of her interest and how much attention she pays to, that's the first thing. It's another thing. When you talk about paper on behalf of family. I didn't hear anyone but me in the House to mention one point that she made in the name of the family. The other thing, I'm seriously telling you, Mrs. Mađeric spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, she didn't mention any of it. The other thing, on behalf of the family now, is that we should be ashamed of ourselves, and in the extreme line of health education, we were leading health education in the Grosd Society. In the name of the family, it has passed on, and it is known. I'm not supposed to talk about health care, 40 days for life, what it has to do with on behalf of the family, they put it in their opinion and they have a right. Do I have similar views with on behalf of the family, yes. And what's so controversial about it now? The third thing, when we talk about the rights of who gives whom what right, so today we have a scientifically confirmed fact that life begins at the moment of conception. So that's not what the D.A. said about it in one of her last year's reports that it's what the religious dogma said, about that fact, right? Well, I don't know what the scientific fact is, so let's give me a scientific fact that says life starts in the fifth month or when the child cries out as Minister Ostojić said the former. So, I'm just, you know, when we talk about rights, I'm answering it now, so when we're talking about right to choice, yeah, I'm saying if life starts in the moment of conception and the life of a human being, life is a fundamental human right then and unborn children have their right to live. And that's what I'm talking about. Talking about a woman's body today is completely declassified. It's as if today is not an imaginary ultrasound and it's as if it's not known that at the 22nd day of pregnancy, the heart of a child is beating. So today, I'm talking this way with that rhetoric from a hundred years ago that's my body, my ovaries, I'm going to do with what they want is completely deplaced. Medicine has made too much progress to discuss it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10832	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10833	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ilcic. You were talking about civic and health education in your debate. I will look back on this because today, in a firm debate from the SDP representative and in its replicas, we heard the following views. First attitude, religious science should be expelled from school to create places for civic and health care. A second position that was firm and clear in Yugoslavia was more women's rights than today. And the third attitude is good for young people to leave Croatia and then maybe come back. Indeed, it is obviously a new SDP platform, new policies from which we have heard a lot in history but SDP has always run away from it. We remember in 2007, religious science, yes or no, etc. Until today. Today they officially responded and said it, and now we know exactly, we know that SDP is ready to throw religious science out of schools to carry out their ideology, we know that they are sorry for Yugoslavia because they clearly confirmed it today and will never forgive us for bringing it down with the Croatian people, probably. And what it looked like when we talk about human rights and equality at the time, given that I say the Union of Communists whose legal followers had specific measures to do so. They founded for the naked island men, and for the women of St. Grgur as a prison because people who had different political opinions ended up there working on heavy heats, dying, being imprisoned because they dared to think something different. As they explained then, you have a sign on the naked island that says: “The Party's concern for our health is a conscious example of humanity.” And today we listen to this outflow of their struggle for human rights. Let's remember, philocomunists and human rights it doesn't work together, it doesn't go into one sentence, it's wooden iron. The fact is they've changed their hair but there's nothing left of the same gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10834	Injury of the Rules of Procedure means two injuries. Honorable representative Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10835	I consider the Vice-President to have been injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 238, when the representative, during the debate, speaks of a subject which is not subject to discussion. Mr. Boric was not replicating his colleague Ilcic, but me. And I wish my colleague Boric had been there when I had my argument and that you had the courage to agree then.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10836	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10837	Dear Mr. Vice President, I also believe that my colleague, Boric, has injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Absolutely in his replica he did not replicate his colleague Ilcic but spoke insultingly about what was not actually the subject of his colleague Ilcic's discussion. Since you've already decided, Mr. Boric, I'm going to actually discuss something that's not a topic, then you should stick to what you know best, and that's how to paint our tunnels three or four times.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10838	Here we go again, so there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there's another breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues! So the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10839	Article 238 colleagues, as usual, always lie or say false things. I was a colleague of Krpan here in the hall when you were talking and I heard exactly what you're saying but I let myself have the time to think about it. I spoke to my colleague, Ilcic, and I responded to his part, which he was talking about health and civic education that you've introduced. If you're in pain with the truth, which may be, given that the SDP is the heir to the Alliance of Communists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10840	I beg you, therefore, that all those of you who have so far raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure have violated the Rules of Procedure because you have gone off the table again and on what you have done to cause a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to vote.- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10841	The truth hurts, and what do we do? Come on!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10842	Yeah, but I really think you're a colleague, please. Here you are, the distinguished representative Margareta Majeric, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You should have warned distinguished MPs that they had injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because they had begun to talk about another topic they had not received, and they reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry the truth hurts them, but fortunately, you won't decide whether or not the religious science will get kicked out of school.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10844	I have warned, Your Honor, Representative Joseph Bilaver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10845	Well, here's the thing, I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the esteemed representative of the Voice has abused the fact that, in 238, she's been talking about a subject she's not talking about again. So she called to say it wasn't a topic, and then she turned on another topic. I think she abused and attacked unwarrantedly again and presented some of the untruths in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10846	I said, I've already warned that it's nothing new. I already said today during the debate that in principle if you took into account the amount of debate and the percentage of debate then you would see that the large percentage was off topic. I always appeal to MPs and MPs to stick to the topic being discussed, but here's always happening to go off topic by explaining something. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10847	Thank you, Mr. Boric. To answer the part about health care. In the election campaign, they asked me how you rebelled against Jovanovic's program, now by the time you came to power, then you'd throw out... And then all the kids will have to go to GROZD's program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said no, it won't. Because we really believe in plurality. We really believe that parents should choose and we really believe that you have good intentions and we have good intentions but we have different ways. And for programmes that have a specific effect on education, a prominent educational choice should be made. And I'd like us to agree on that plurality. That it is not a choice between HDZ and SDP but rather a choice between one brain and plural society. And I hope that we are going towards this plural society in which we will show that we are different and that we have different approaches and that they can live together. I'm with the D.A.'s office to show one criticism of her actions. I think that should be different. And when you mentioned health care, here's to mention the fact that when we had the thematic session of Ms. D.A.'s over half of her time, look at the phonogram, you were talking about homophobic student attitudes. The homophobic attitudes of students are probably the most important topic in this curricula reform. Of course they are, but they're not me. And I think that this curricula has much, much more important things than homophobic attitudes of students and that most of the extreme line of our school structure were talked about mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, Croatian etc. Not about homophobia. And that's how he'd like to stay. And I can, look, I'm saying what I think, I can make an extremist out of me, I can say Mr. Hrebak three times that it's different from my opinion because it needs to be politically distanced, I understand even though I haven't seen what that's different about. And I don't care what anyone thinks, it's important to me that the truth is spoken and that we face arguments in our opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10848	Final review of the esteemed advocate for gender equality Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10849	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, with co-workers, distinguished MPs and MPs, I thank you for yesterday's and today's debate. I believe that we have touched the majority, not all chapters, all areas and all discriminatory grounds which we are dealing with under the Law on Gender Equality, the Constitution, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and where we monitor, monitor and monitor all legal regulations, international acts, European case-law when it comes to discriminatory grounds and areas that are placed in our jurisdiction. Since I have not had the opportunity to answer a number of thesis and distorted facts, I am now taking advantage of the opportunity to address the questions that the distinguished representative Ilcic has raised in his own word. I would start with his first thesis or point of view that most women today want to work and want to have a family. He wonders and maintains that the Ombudsman should deal with it, react on a daily basis, highlight remarks and inspect work and publicly point to individual cases. I'm asking you who says we don't? If you read the report well, if you see the number of items, if you see the number of warning recommendations and if you see the trends that we have pointed to, if you look at our views or our presentations according to individual conferences, panels, thematic sessions of the Croatian Parliament, I must say that you have the opportunity to see and get a full picture. And the issue of attending, or not attending, the lawyer's presence on initiatives, communities, marriage meetings, family enriching and engagement courses, I would say that this institution has been open to 341 civil society organisations and trade unions. She talked to all religious communities, we talked about teaching standards, certain remarks that we had on such standards, and we keep it open to such initiatives, but we can't get uninvited where we're not called. As far as health care is concerned, you're saying that we've supported a health education that the Constitutional Court has abolished. I would work for information to the public because the public has the right to know both respected MPs and MPs who may not have the chronology of the 2013 events, to know the fact that the Constitutional Court has abolished for procedural reasons, non-containmental reasons, the legal reasons for which we have manifested ourselves as an institution. And that, after removing the procedural objections, health care was entered into the educational system. When you're talking about researching the Ombudsman's institution to question the perception of students about homophobic positions, you're re-replaced thesis. I must say for those who have not read the full report that we have examined the views of teachers and teachers who conduct medical education. We have sent questionnaires to over 300 addresses and received an indication of more than 2500 teachers and teachers who conduct health education and sexual education through a teaching, class community clock where we wanted to identify which problems, with which challenges, with which attitudes, with which difficulties, how they want to improve or point out the shortcomings and problems they have in implementing that module. The homophobic attitudes derived from such an analysis as a special part coincided with the research that was published in 2015 by several civil society organisations that carried out a very similar thing at national level through the perception of pupils and pupils in primary and secondary schools. Where we saw that on our sample, through our analysis the speaker did not understand./... the segment of the analysis carried out coincides with the positions that were carried out on a much wider sample. When it comes to the question of religious science, you have instructed me to have double criteria, that I am open or we as an institution have openly sided when it comes to a referendum on marriage where I have knowledge of your rhetoric, in front of me, the chronology of events from 2013 where we are public statement, so the public statement has been declared that the constitutional right of all those initiatives, the civil society organisation to implement or demand a referendum, is a legitimate right, but if it is done in a way that we want to define this initiative, that according to the standards of the European Union and the practices of the European Court of Justice, we will bring into a more unfavourable position of the extramarital community without talking about one parent family. So we didn't stand aside here either for or against the initiative. We have not told voters or citizens whether or not they should vote, but we have already taken a legal position and an opinion on the happiness that the Constitutional Court respected when it made its decision. I will read you with one small reserve because of all those who do not know and because of the public who is following this today, which is that a possible addition to the Constitution is made to a provision that the marriage of the living community must not have any effect on the further development of the legal framework, the institution of the extramarital, that is, the extramarital straight community and the same-sex community, in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic has the right to respect and protect dignity and family life. We didn't come out of the legal framework, we didn't say anything illegal, and we didn't go outside our jurisdiction. The question of religious science is not a question that we as an independent institution can determine or refer to. Why? It's a state issue, it's not a question of one government or one parliament, it's a matter of consensus because it's an international contract. I know what Vatican contracts are, '91. I worked for years at the Department of Defense. And when the military office was formed, we knew very well how international contracts would be developed. So here I want to focus on the the thesis and the facts that have been put forward and I want to keep the honourable MPs and MPs when they bring their views and their opinion remains with what facts are, or half the facts. As you pointed out buffer zones and prayer for life. So, as there are initiatives to pray for life, so there is an initiative of doctors and doctors, I do not know how familiar the public is with that other party who has requested a meeting in our office together with the directorship of the police, together with civil society organisations.../The speaker is not understood, who believe that the right of those who have on one hand the right to call on a conscience from one side to have access to health services, or to exercise their reproductive rights. The doctor’s initiative feels that they are being entered into a place where they are simply being distracted in some way. Either that patients who come into the office regardless of whether they are pregnant or not are pregnant, or have other health and gynological problems feel anxious about such a situation or sleep, and are further disturbed by such external influences in the evening. So we're trying to unite with the Resolute Ministry and see how to allow one initiative to have the right to its own initiative, the right to its views. On the other hand, officials and persons acting in state institutions are able to carry out their work uninterruptedly. And on the third hand, people, clients, patients, however you want citizens and citizens, especially citizens who enter medical institutions to be uninterrupted. So this is about one mediation, this is about taking a solution because these organisations, these stakeholders, they asked to meet with us because they thought we were a point, a synergy point that could solve or at least consider both sides. I have to say about a demographic policy that's also being introduced to me, and it's going through all the time about the D.A.'s only devoted one page to demographic politics. You know, when you get a pamphlet one of the civil society organisations who spends such a one, one of six points, not reading, not understanding or tendingly distorting facts, then the one who had the opportunity to read 300 pages of the report and the one who could look at the debate and the subject matter from all aspects will see that it was this institution that made the most of the protection of mothers and pregnant women primarily in 2012 when we abolished the institutional discrimination of pregnant women from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So, what the Croatian Health Insurance Institute found in its decisions that each pregnant woman, especially if she had been conceived in vitro, if she had been in a high degree of pregnancy for, say, over 4 months, if at that stage of pregnancy she had designed an employment contract independently or undefinedly with another employer she had played the system, she played the system because simply a pregnant woman could not be a business woman, she was headed to the employment office as an employed woman and the Croatian Health Insurance Office was cancelling or considered such a contract invalid. When we called on the competent authorities of the Ministry of Health, from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Pension Insurance, the Ministry of Social Policy and said that according to European case-law we can quickly be sued where the Republic of Croatia will have to compensate for the high costs of such solutions which have been confirmed unfortunately in the Administrative Court. We have come up with one synergy positive solution to be directed to all the offices, to all the branches that such solutions will no longer happen. So, if it comes to pregnant women who are being fired for the discriminatory practice, then we are doing research together with the Croatian Employment Service and RODA where we have indicated that at the time of the 2008 recession, the position of criteria and standards has been progressive, working environment when it comes to women employees. For the past few years, we have been pointing to a trend in work for a certain time, and it would not turn out that some of the civil society organisations that have such semi-information say that we are too boastful. We are the ones who have been through this report, through a series of areas and look at what the share of labour and employment is just pointing out that together with the employment policy, the family policy we don't have, the population policies we don't have, demographic policies that haven't been uniform for the past 20 years, you put the burden on the public, you represent that we are the ones who should pay more attention to it. If you read the report, you will see that we have given really great attention and that we who in the Croatian public point to such problems and I think we are very loud, I think we are very authoritative and I think we have run a lot of things. And regarding the alignment of the family and business life that you mentioned, I must say that we have received the project again from the European Commission, 450 thousand euros just like that. Economic empowerment of women, rehabilitation of family and business life, and it's about employers. I'm sorry there's no fellow Dodig here who says he's weak when he hears it's about the perception of employers because who needs it. It takes that 100 and a few companies that we and our partners worked with to sensitize them for the question of pregnant women, births, the removal of glass ceilings. Here we have representatives of state institutions who have been our partners and a number of other civil society organisations with whom we have successfully implemented the project and I hope that we will also spend this one successfully in the next two years. As far as sexism is concerned, I have to look back on it. I'm sorry that the colleagues and colleagues who raised the issue came out of the blue and what I said yesterday and I'm going to say again today. This is an independent institution that always reacts before the announcement of any election, presidential, democratic, euro parliamentary, local, so we always respond and call for rhetoric appropriate to polite democracies without sexism. However, when it comes to candidates and candidates and harsh rhetoric, possibly sexism, hate speech or something like that at the time of the election, this independent institution must not react. We responded on the day of the publication of the results, by public statement, to certain failures and we went out in the 2014 report, not the 15th with a full analysis of the presidential company where we said there were sexisms both towards the candidate woman and the man. Of course the ratio was at the expense of the female candidate. I am sorry that there is no honourable representative here who says that in the 2015 search engine, he asked if we have ever come forward to senior officials or political party leaders. I must say that since I led this institution, I have had no fear or hemung to react in 2012 when it came to the Deputy Prime Minister, 2013 when it came to the prime minister, 2014 when it came to the mayor, 2015 when it came to the health ministry. So, such examples I would say consistency with everyone and we've never had any pressures we've made publicly, and I think that's the only way that in situations like this when it's said that we haven't responded to the protection of a particular candidate or candidate, such statistical indicators have been denying it for the past few years. I want to say that we still want to retain such independence because an independent institution is something that doesn't belong to the executive government, there is no possibility of creating a law although we have a very proactive role perhaps thanks to my background because I worked 9 years in the military and 10 years in the government and I know it's much easier to propose in the course of document creation than to post-festum through amendments and parliamentary debates. So here so far, governments have used our opinions, our proposals and our proactiveness, our human resources. There are few of us, there are only 11 of us, but I believe that we are quite sensitized, that we are doing our job quite authoritatively, which shows us and 6 of the court proceedings in which we used the authority of the involved in the judicial proceedings where we have managed to impose our views in some way that the decisions of the county courts are changing. What I'd like for the end is certainly an education. Education as the most important tool of prevention where we appeal and offer our experience because we have practical experience. And this is where our lawyers use the students of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb who work on our cases where we conduct examinations and where we work on live cases and live cases. Where I'm glad it happened at one point that the distinguished representative Culey came up with a life story, a life problem of a woman who has conjecture of sexual harassment or just harassment in a workplace that we're going to consider. And I believe that you, as representatives of your electoral body, are an excellent address to receive such life-discriminatory stories and that you will certainly have the confidence to direct such representations or such citizens and citizens to the institution of attorney. I would end up with something that I always conclude with, and what I've been through here a few times today, and I'm glad it means that still through public speaking, the public space is somewhere, and it's that we're not talking about human rights of women as an institution that deals with only them, we're talking about gender equality that has been permeated through all segments of society, and so are those pamphlets that say that we as lawyers are entering the medical profession because there's nothing to do when it comes to health and reproductive rights. We enter all segments of society. In nauticals, shipbuilding, engineering, mining, through all segments of society because through all segments of society we want as one body that in one place is doing an analysis, taking the complaint of all the pains of our citizens and citizens but according to the basics that we are dealing with is something where we with our experience can, we want to solve. When it comes to employers, yes, we can't sanction them but that's why we're giving victims the way to either through our protection or through judicial protection talks and achieve their protection. When I talk about the activities of the executive and attorney institution, I believe that we all have a common goal and that we are not on the opposite sides. We all aim to protect those who need protection and to process or show those who practice discriminatory practices. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10850	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10851	Here's only two minutes. I've said my views now I'm just going to correct what I find incorrect. First, the Constitutional Court in its judgment when it abolished health care was clearly on pages 2 that it was not possible to impose on parents that parents were the first and main educators that had not changed in the second version of health care. Secondly, in the referendum on marriage, the Constitutional Court said that the development of another institute other than marriage but did not say in which direction and to what level it is clear that marriage with this definition can only be a community between a woman and a man. Third, in the question of religious science, your ingenuity is neither in religion nor in civic education that you are introducing something into the school system but that you are giving opinions. Therefore, no matter what level of legislative decision the Minister or the interstate you have the right to give your opinion. So that's no excuse for saying that. Fourthly, as far as the buffer zone is concerned, it is clear and notable that these people who pray in front of the hospital have not even prevented anyone from entering, meaning they have a free pass, or that they are shouting because they are praying in silence. So, the only fact that it got on someone's nerves is that you stood by them. Fifth, a medical examination you said you just pulled out homophobic attitudes. So who pulled them out? Well, you pulled out those homophobic attitudes. Why didn't you draw your views on communication that I think is much more important? And in conclusion, I didn't say you weren't working on, say, those contracts for a certain time, and don't object to women being left out of work when they're pregnant, etc. I'm the one who said you weren't working hard enough. So your focus as I did and the example down on the board when we talked about a curricula in which you talked for over half the time about homophobia in schools and we're talking about a curricula that's terribly important then I'm showing that your focus is focused on something that I don't think is important and that you haven't paid enough attention to what it is. And that when you don't hear from some associations, when you say that life begins at the moment of conception, that you declare it a religious dogma, then it's clear that in the beginning you refused some associations, or that in the direction in which you chose yourself and with such associations you'll work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10852	Time. The reply to the replica is the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10853	So I must re-emphasise this very authoritative rhetoric so that you know whether there has been a breach or if there has been a disturbance at certain locations related to the initiative of 40 days of life, for life. So you can't know either, nor I, because we didn't go to all the centers and we weren't in front of every hospital at all times. Those who have experienced this and these are employees and employees who come every day, they have created their own initiative and have come to us. So I'm asking you that what, not what goes in terms of certain complaints of real life facts, we don't relativize and we don't de facto determine because it's real people, real facts and real fates. When you talk about curricula reform, then you have to say that we said that by segments followed by sex, sexual orientation, marital and family status, motherhood and birth identity that we only considered it through what enters our profession. That insufficient content or indeterminate content is given in relation to sexual orientation and birth identity. And here we were referring to the need to elaborate on the basis of the analysis we just received in 2015. Please be decoded and don't replace the thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10854	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10855	In the end, I would like to thank you, Madam Attorney, you and your team for your excellent work, for your conscientious work, professional work. That you remained high despite many obstacles and obstacles, at the height of your professional and human dignity. And we're very proud of that, and thank you very much. That's exactly why a lot of people resent you, but that's the way it is. Whoever is in the way of truth, he has many obstacles on his way. But I'm glad you couldn't get into it. You have not touched the definition of marriage, but you have touched marriage, or reacted to the situations that most often women experience in marriage, and those who thought only how to define marriage have remained at the level of definition, because it is an important definition. And what exactly did they accomplish? That they've evened out the marriage community. Because by definition, the extramarital community is also a male and female community. So they've even reversed the definition of marriage. Furthermore, what women are experiencing in the choice-right situation is quite right. In spite of their legal obligations, doctors too, many are calling for a conscience. That was a lot of '90s. Suddenly there was a monster calling to a conscience that was only worth the morning, and in the afternoon when the woman paid for it under the use of all hospital funds and at the expense of the hospital was no longer at night when it fell dark, there was no longer an appeal to conscience. And in the end, I want to say, as far as reproductives are concerned, it's good to do this and who's going to do it the most than you do, because the female body is still a polygon of male rule and politics. When women are reproductive rights so even James Woodson said, so the one who decrypted DNA I said and quote "When such questions are right, men are better kept away because men often run away from their own children and don't care about other unborn children."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10856	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I am also setting a break at 15 hours to resume the session with agenda point: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Food Information Act. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-01-0.u10857	Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2015. The applicant is a lawyer for gender equality. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Gender Equality, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Advocate for Gender Equality for 2015 is accepted." Please vote. Who's up for a conclusion? I'm asking for a result. 76 votes for, 53 abstentions, 6 against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
