ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes because of our fellow citizens who have been damaged by Raiffeisen and other Austrian cooperatives and other damaged credit offices. More specifically, the damages to companies of Austrian cooperatives and credit associations who illegally paid loans to our citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, made their accounts and did all of this, of course, in the last 10 years illegally and in an anti-constitutional manner. So I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u281	Thank you. No one else is looking for a break. So, of course, I'll take a break by 9.45. Thank you very much. [[It's 9:35 p.m.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here's a colleague and a colleague, time's up, so distinguished representative Miro Bulj will present himself on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u283	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. It is time to once again negotiate illegally paid loans in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The savings-credited cooperatives without registration activities, without the necessary permits of the CNB, HANFA or the Ministry of Finance and then, with the help of the judicial institutions, legally implemented the property of Croatian citizens by legalising the illegal and illegal Croatian citizens with the help of judicial decisions, dropped them on the road, executed their accounts, all in the Croatian state illegally and against the constitutional way. Croatia is in an increasingly difficult situation every year, 325 thousand citizens have been blocked by performances, many of which have been exhausted in long-term blockades and on the very edge of the existence. As things stand now, our fellow citizens will never be able to unblock themselves unless the solution involves a system that has both led to absurdity. Before this problem, we must no longer sit down for a day, but as soon as we have to deal with this non-monetary and interest-sharing which is the direct culprit of the departure of a large number of young families, as well as those in mature years of belly after bread in suspense and many of our fellow citizens are digging through the container for it. Why so far, the ruling parties have been complaining publicly for years about how the people are going away, how the Natalie has fallen, how the economy is in grave trouble. And what has been done specifically so far, here's the question? As this whole story of the damage to RBA cooperatives and other Austrian cooperatives ran in cooperation with our offices in the first place. The contract is a one-time loan concluded by natural or legal persons who have not been registered for the conduct of brokering and financial activities, in the case of a commercial court in the Republic of Croatia. Credit offices and Austrian cooperatives that placed loans across Croatia just as their intermediaries did not have the CNB's work permit and did business contrary to the provisions or against the Banks Act. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are thus deceived. The question is, how do those who don't understand the depth of the tragedy of our fellow citizens always ask themselves, have created a network of intermediaries and through these intermediaries have placed loans as a criminal organization? It's about what happened. direct lending that is most strictly prohibited. The contracts appeared to be neat with a decent interest rate and a normal tight interest rate. For example, the person raised 20,000 euros and was due to pay back 32,000 euros in 10 years. Thanks to an invisible non-transparent formula embedded in the so-called ". The comfortable interest debt began to grow rapidly, endlessly. Yesterday, I got a call from a lady who spoke to me and told me and raised a 20,000-euro loan, after 12 years of return, she now owes 38,000 euros. The debt situation, so far it has returned, means 50,000 euros and is owed 38,000 euros. They have kidnapped her so far means more than 50,000 euros, a mobility, a performance on her property, and so several thousand of our citizens are left without property from day to day, Croatia's property goes into foreign hands. Every day RBA cooperatives call, the damages of these cooperatives call and ask when their problem will be solved. So far, in this assembly, MPs in the Assembly have been helplessly shruging their shoulders, warning of this. However, if we are powerless, we must call for help from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if the governments so far were powerless to lead with Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic, Vice President Tomislav Karamark and Boza Petrov, the competent finance and justice ministers, the president of the Republic of Croatia, the institution of the DORH where today our fellow citizens, the damages and today are protesting. Here today they have a protest to investigate documentation that has collected dust for years and launched a collective lawsuit. Gentlemen, directly, whoever elected us, the people, directly in the democratic elections, gave us legitimacy on their behalf, on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We should be bold and brave and ask the institutions in charge to investigate this case and help our fellow citizens. The protection of their rights was first requested by citizens in courts, in private civil litigation, the outcomes of a large number of lawsuits were disappointing. In the first phase of the disputes, the courts were embroiled by jurisdiction over the dispute because credit-saving cooperatives were located outside the Republic of Croatia. Only temporary forced provisions of the Law on Banks and Law on the resolution of the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations have forced our courts to sue. Prosecutors have been in court for years. Here's what I'd like to say for the end. [[Intruder: Time.]] I believe that this Croatian Parliament is an institution, that our 4 million Croatian inhabitants can be protected, this beautiful country of ours from these interest rates and interest rates. And therefore, on behalf of the MOST Club, once again, I urge all competent institutions from the prime minister to the minister and our parliamentary representatives, and it is our obligation to protect our fellow citizens from foreign, savings, savings cooperatives, i.e. Interest rate and interest rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u284	Thank you very much. Now we will continue, or begin with the point that has been announced. We will now continue, i.e. to begin with the point announced and that is - half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy The information submitted by the Croatian National Bank is based on Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget whose report you received at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here's the esteemed Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Boris Vujčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4373	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, I believe it is necessary and useful to explain briefly the circumstances and foundations of the monetary policy led by the CNB in order to maintain stability and create support for the long-term development and growth of the Croatian economy. When it comes to the possibility of monetary policy in Croatia, it is often easily discussed about its opportunities and achievements, and even with greater ease, it is proposed what should be done with allegedly very positive outcomes for economic activity, employment, exports and prosperity. This often ignores the conditions in which central banks implement policies and make decisions such as the structural properties of economies and their financial systems, current economic trends, but also the state of the global economy and the direct environment. Also, the risks that are necessarily related to certain CNB measures and moves are very rarely respected in an appropriate manner. In this complex environment, a major challenge for central bankers is the simple and understandable communication of its own action and the overall role of monetary policy, which is a necessary condition for gaining and preserving the reputation. The reputation is the most important capital of the central bank and is critically dependent on the public reaction of domestic and international market participants to monetary government moves and thus the ability to meet legal objectives and tasks. We in the CNB are constantly and persistently explaining the character, action and objective achievement of monetary policy with respect to current risks. Clear communication certainly gained importance during the crisis period, and now at the initial stage of the recovery of the Croatian economy burdened with numerous structural problems, and a high level of responsibility for all domestic sectors. That is why I would take this opportunity to call again for talks in the CNB on current topics and deepen dialogue on these long-term challenges. My colleagues and I will be happy to receive you and discuss all current issues from the central bank's work cycle. Let me now clarify the restriction in the conduct of monetary policy in Croatia as well as the current orientation of monetary policy, i.e. its marked already several years of expansion that we have further strengthened in the recent 2016. Small open developing countries did not actually have a systematic theoretical framework for monetary economy or macro-economy until about thirty years ago except for several controversial works that dealt mainly with the effects of devaluation. Since then, a whole new macro-economy of small open economies has been developed that seeks to apply the knowledge of the international economy, respecting the characteristics of small and open economies with euro-based debts such as Croatia. Under such conditions, monetary policy faces many challenges that are not present in large and almost closed economies for which classical macro-economic models are made. If it is systematic as an example for Croatian monetary policy, those who do not understand the differences between large almost closed economies that print international currencies such as the US, euro area or Japan and small open, highly Euro-species such as Croatia are listed. Let's take it in a row. Croatia is a small open economy. The very definition of a small open economy contains several elements, and some of them are the share of external trade in GDP, then that the country is the acquirer of world prices, that it cannot influence them, and that it does not affect global trade and capital flows and that it is generally not in debt in its own currency on the international market. Foreign currency borrowing does not arise because of a lack of awareness of currency risk, but because of market failures where foreign creditors simply do not exist are willing to approve loans in domestic currency. The inability of foreign borrowing in domestic currency in small open economies is often accompanied by domestic euroisation which you can see illustrated on this graph, where you can see that Croatia is a country with the highest degree of euroisation with Serbia and that this euroisation is very hard-line. So we managed to reduce it somewhat before the start of the crisis by 2008. However, when the crisis started, people quickly ran again with their deposits into the euro. In any situation of uncertainty, fear in Croatia people go to the euro. The borrowing of all sectors in foreign currency results in potentially major negative effects of significant exchange rate changes on the country's financial stability and the achievement of the country's fundamental objective of maintaining price stability. This reduces the ability of monetary policy to operate through traditional transmission channels, as the domestic currency whose price and quantity is managed by the central bank has less importance in domestic economic and financial developments than in an uneurised country such as large closed economies or economies that have traditionally had no euroisation, such as the Czech Republic or Slovakia. Also in the euro-based household economy, their expectations of changes in prices of goods and services are linked to exchange rates. Finally, the result of high deposit euroisation is also high credit euroisation. And here you can see that credit euroisation is essentially a mirror image of depositary euroisation. As deposits were moving in domestic banks, so was the share of foreign currency loans, i.e. primarily with the euro in Croatian banking. Why is that? Because banks must protect themselves from currency risk according to the rules of the profession. They are also driven by the regulatory rule laid down in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The European Parliament and the Council on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms directly applicable in the Republic of Croatia. So these aren't the laws that we're making at all, that's not the law that Parliament is making, so these are EU regulations that are directly applied in Croatia. Therefore, credit euroisation under depositary euroisation is used to protect the value and assets that the savings have entrusted to banks for storage. That's the point. This is very important to bear in mind because the described properties of the financial system are not present in large monetary areas such as the USA, Japan or the euro areas. Which leads to significant differences in monetary policy transmission mechanisms. That's what I'd say. Croatia's foreign debt, if the rate devalues 10% without affecting inflation growth, increases from 107% to 118% of GDP. Due to domestic euroisation in the debt foreign currency of all sectors of non-financial enterprises, the population and the state is even larger, 548 billion kuna or 164% of GDP as you can see in this picture. The foreign and domestic debt in foreign currency since the drop of almost four-fifths of the total debt, and you can see here, means the currency structure of the total debt, and already very mild exchange rate depreciation greatly increases the debt and acts pro-resion. Small open economies are largely exposed to shocks on the side of the offer. Like. the shock price of oil or raw materials on the formation of which we absolutely have no influence. As is also exposed to the fluctuations of foreign demand. In Croatia, it can be for example. a case in tourism. They are also subject to changes in direction and volume of foreign capital flows which are generally procyclical that we have experienced extremely strongly not once. During the economic upturn period, capital inflows contribute to overheating the economy. They can encourage excessive credit growth as was the case in Croatia before the start of the financial crisis and increase the price of assets. Which was also the case in Croatia before the crisis began. During the recession, these inflows are rapidly reduced or shifted over the course of the recession, and we are witnessing a capital outflow, with a sudden termination of the tide usually being an additional trigger of the recession. Furthermore, the internal organisation of emerging economies is almost by definition marked by weak and undeveloped institutions and policies and by frequent and sudden shifts in economic policy direction as well as a relatively inflexible domestic macroeconomic instrument. The fiscal policy is generally driven by a pro-cyclical increase in the deficit and public debt in the period of growth, not worrying about the possible crisis periods which result in a lack of fiscal space to conduct a countercyclical or expansion fiscal policy in the recession periods. Due to institutional weaknesses, foreign creditors, people who borrow money are mainly willing to tolerate lower levels of debt compared to developed economies and demand more return rates, which accumulates government debt and other domestic sectors. Here you can see the cost of borrowing the Republic of Croatia. You can also see here what I pointed out last week that the cost of borrowing the budget is at the historical lowest levels. Let's just say this week's auction means the vaults led to interest rates on one-year vault records falling below 1% for the first time. If you are correcting this for the Croatian state rating then borrowing below 1% is practically the same thing as borrowing at negative interest rates of countries that have triple A credit ratings, not below the investment rating. All of the above mentioned characteristics of small open economies that limit monetary policy opportunities are well known. In the debate on the possibilities of small open economies to successfully cope with these domestic and foreign shocks, the choice of the exchange rate regime and the implications arising from this for monetary policy play an extremely important role. The learning approach towards which a flexible course can somewhat mitigate the impact of foreign shock on the real sector of change in the nominal rate in recent times is highly relatively relative. Today's experiences are in favour of the fact that, independently of the small and open developing country's exchange rate regime, they cannot be isolated from external shocks except eventually only temporarily and with a questionable result of the introduction of capital controls. To remind you of the capital controls the CNB introduced before the crisis, it was taxing the inflow of capital in banks by borrowing or receiving deposits at a rate of 55%. However, the fact that we are today an EU member puts capital controls beyond the reach of economic policy in the event of shocks. And we need to be aware of that. We don't have that instrument anymore. Based on all the facts listed that describe the economies of a number of countries with markets in the pursuit of experience, it has shown that devaluation actually leads to a reduction in economic activity, recession. The seminary paper on this is Calvo from 1999. The concept of expansion devaluation is based on a non-Keinsian approach to the trade balance which is a paradigm where the greater demand for domestic goods has been through an increase in domestic or foreign demand leads to an increase in production. However, the assumptions that this would be worth not being present in countries such as Croatia, highly Eurosed, small and open economies, and in such cases we have so-called. contractional devaluation where devaluation leads to a decline in economic activity. This is why we have repeatedly stressed that the framework and way of implementing monetary policy in Croatia cannot be the same as in large countries or currency areas. Everything the CNB has done in the last almost 2 decades and has done has failed to change much, so we have had a whole series of measures to reduce euroisation. It failed to change the propensity of domestic foreign currency savings sectors. Let's remind ourselves, the regulatory burden in terms of additional shock absorbers, liquidity and capital has always been higher for foreign exchanges than for kuna sources. Now I'm going to show you the cost of regulation on the sidelines as some alternative measure of the character of monetary policy. You can see that the cost of burdening foreign exchange funds is twice as high for foreign exchanges as it is for kuna sources. And today when the CNB fired a significant liquidity and reduced the regulatory burden of banks, look at the burden of regulatory banks before the crisis, this first column and look at what it is like today. It is essentially a measure of the same expansion of monetary policy that is completely forgotten. The cost of operating foreign exchanges for banks is twice as high as for the business of kunas. But the deeurisation process was always slow. And if a longer period of time is observed, there was almost no deforestation. Two are the main restrictions for faster deforestation. It is the main continuing incentive of mistrust in the domestic currency, the long-standing fear of the population, the need for devaluation in the value of kuna. It's about predicting the inadequacy of falling to values. It is backed by insufficiently credible and frequent changes in economic policies. In such conditions, people will not start saving in kunas, simply. Why would they if they were afraid there might be a depreciation policy? Deeurisation of deposits is extremely rare. Reinhardt and other co-authors from the previous year on a sample of 85 countries from 1980 to 2001 found a few examples in which the dollarisation was significantly and permanently reduced by more than 20% and to a maximum of 20% of the foreign currency shares in total deposits during the observed period. Together with all the countries that had successfully dedolarised themselves, it was that they did not belong to a circle of highly dollared countries with a deep-rooted dollarisation or euroisation and that they had dedolarised under the conditions of limiting freedom of movement of capital. It means what we can't do. However, this is theoretically not an impossible process for a highly euro-supervised economy, although in practice none has been deeuroised yet. However, to do so requires continued mild appreciation of domestic currency exchange rates in combination with effective structural policies aimed at reducing public debt and improving the competitiveness of the economy. Trust in the domestic currency is, among other things, a rise in trust in the domestic economy, or economic policy. Only the policy described can revitalise trust in economic policy holders and thus the kuna, the national currency. But because of the deep roots of euroisation in our case, it is more likely that Croatia will introduce the euro someone will convince citizens to say three-quarters of the savings are transferred into kunas and kept in kunas. All previously described limiting factors for monetary policy in Croatia do not mean that it is powerless to affect the domestic monetary market and domestic interest rates. To the extent that the necessity of maintaining exchange rate stability allows the CNB to manage domestic kuna liquidity with its instruments and influences domestic interest. The functioning of the CNB during the crisis period was extremely expansional in the same way as all other central banks in Europe or the European Central Bank. However, unlike most of them, the CNB acted very restrictively before the crisis, which preserved the stability of the financial system and enabled the marked countercyclical action of monetary policy when the crisis began. For the 8th year in a series of CNBs, it has maintained an extremely high liquidity of the monetary system. In total, the CNB in the crisis has released around 14% of GDP of liquidity through the relaxation of existing measures. What you can see, this is one indicator of monetary policy, this is the second one that shows you the marked expansion of monetary policy. The decommissioned foreign currency liquidity was crucial to ensuring the stability of the exchange rate in terms of conditions, because we fired both kuna and foreign currency liquidity. The exchange rate was crucial to ensuring the stability of the exchange rate under the conditions of a strong drop in foreign capital inflow. The policy of such liquidity release results in strong growth of the CNB balance sheet, stronger than the growth of the European Central Bank's balance sheet as well as high, excess kuna and foreign currency liquidity, so in 2015 banks had an average of 5.9% of GDP of excess kuna and foreign currency liquidity approximately two and a half times as you can see here exceeds the surplus of liquidity in the euro area compared to their GDP. So that keeps the two-and-a-half times stronger expansional character of the policy that we're running. High liquidity, and here you can see the balance sheet of the Croatian National Bank and of the European Central Bank. You can also see that the character of the balance sheet shows greater expansion of monetary policy. High liquidity is suitable for maintaining low interest rates on the money market, and as I have already said record low yields on the Treasury's vault records. However, the way in which this expansion was implemented was different, which is logical, given that channels and instruments of action of monetary policy in different economies are large, closed which print world currencies or small open like Croatia which have exotic currencies such as kunas are quite different. It should once again be pointed out that certain channels of monetary policy action cannot be used, because we see that the policy of quantitative easing of the European Central Bank is largely acting through a reduction of rates which in our case would not bring positive effects but, as I pointed out, would act pro-recessionally. In 2016, under the conditions of further repair of the balance of the current balance of payments and the foreign position of banks, we decided to further strengthen the expansion of monetary policy by introducing structural rebate operations for four years, because otherwise we do them at a much shorter half-percent. Now we offer four-year kuna liquidity. The first auction was held in mid-February, and in the follow-up of the year as we said we are ready to hold three more such auctions. The main idea of these operations, this is not any, significant change in the character of monetary policy, as once thought, is that banks are more favourable than market-based collateral on the passive side of the balance sheet. So far, we've been lowering the minimum reserve rate that's been releasing them from liquidity on the active side of the balance sheet. So she was changing their claims that they usually hold at zero percent. So we'd give them the money they normally hold at zero percent and say, "Here you can place 5% if you want or 4% or 6%, and then you wouldn't, so you'd keep it in the Croatian People's Bank again." So this allows this trend to mean greater demand for kuna loans from Euros to deepen and extend. However, as the problem in Croatia is the sustainability of public debt as often as possible, it should be said that these operations will also depend on the fiscal consolidation process. The stronger fiscal consolidation this monetary policy has more space for such and similar monetary policy measures, especially given that economic recovery has not yet been significantly dynamicised and that the credit activity of banks is still suppressed. I would also like to dedicate a few words to achieving price stability, which is the core objective of the CNB. A low inflation rate is not a phenomenon that exists only in Croatia. Trends in annual inflation rates have been present since the end of 2012 in all European countries as well as in the United States. That you can see here that's the world's trend. The average annual rate of change in consumer prices measured by the overall harmonised index decreased between 2013 and 2015 in all observed countries, with 1.3 percentage points in the euro area, by 2 and a half percentage points in Bulgaria and Romania, while in Croatia the inflation rate was -0.3% reduction by 2.6 percentage points. In order to better understand the impact of certain phenomena on inflation movements, it is good to exclude from the calculation prices that are very volatility and administratively regulated prices. For example, the basic inflation rate calculated without energy prices, food, alcohol and tobacco was positive in all observed countries between 2013 and 2015. The negative rate of total and positive basic inflation rates in most countries over a longer period of time is one of the reasons why currently negative inflation rates cannot be considered deflation. Lower prices of oil and other raw materials on world markets, and Croatia is their net importer or drop in import prices, in fact, a positive shock of offers that improves the terms of international exchange for Croatia, as more than one unit of imports can be obtained today for the Croatian export unit. However, here you can see deflators of exports and imports. So it's good for us what's going on. However, that the negative inflation rate is not spread to the largest number of products and the inflation distribution index that you can see here. The index shows the proportion of products whose prices increased over a certain month in the total number of products in the basket for the calculation of the harmonised consumer price index. It is very important that such an index actually signals whether the rise, i.e. the decline in prices, has spread to most sectors in the economy, and helps to assess whether the intensity of inflationary pressures has been strengthened or weakened over a period of time. Thus, during 2015, the share of products in the index of energy-free consumer prices and nutrition whose prices increased at monthly level increased almost 60%. This means that the prices of most products are growing and largely the products produced in Croatia. While the products that we import are cheaped, in other words the overall negative contribution to inflation comes from the prices of unprocessed food products and energy products. You can see that right here. The decline in food and energy prices to sum up is a positive shock for the economy as a whole due to a strong price reduction in these two segments of goods there has been no delay in personal consumption. People do not delay the consumption of food and gasoline, which would be characteristic of the deflation spiral, but repairing the trade balance due to the decline in import prices has enabled the growth of personal consumption. Which is practically something we can be happy with. Our GDP growth wouldn't be like that without it, it'd be lower than that. Since the inflation distribution index shows that the negative inflation rates in Croatia are caused by a concentrated drop in prices in a small group of import goods, Croatians earn more due to deflation and pay less. Which I'm sure shouldn't bother them. The second essential feature of the deflation spiral is derived from the so-called “deflation spiral”. Debt deflation theories. This theory of its foundation is found in the part of the American economist Fisher in '33. A year. And it rests on the idea that in times of greatest crisis, there is a long-term contraction of economies, caused by the simultaneous deleveraging of most sectors in the economy and the decline of prices. At which rate the drop in prices is higher than the rate that domestic sectors are deleveraging and the real debt of domestic sectors is increasing. In Croatia, however, recent financial movements show no growth but a reduction in real debt burden. And here you can see that the real burden of debt decreases, not increases. The share of interest expenditure in the income available is continuously reduced as well as the ratio of credit and income. And similar developments show financial indicators of companies whose profitability is improved due to cheaper food and energy imports. Therefore, we cannot talk about increasing the real burden of debt, which would be typical of deflation spirals, but rather the opposite of household debt and the share of paid interest in the available income has fallen significantly over the last few years and the growth of real income makes it easier to pay off the debt. Long-term inflation expectations also suggest that inflation should return to a long-term trend. A survey of professional prognostics on the expected annual rate shows that deflation is not deeply rooted in the economy but that it is a temporary phenomenon. Which is consistent with the decline in the volatility of food and energy prices as the main causes of negative inflation. Here you can see a survey of prognostics who all expect to return the inflation rate to a level of 2%. Why? Because they expect to start rising food and oil prices from these levels that they have fallen to. And it's going to raise a simple rate of inflation up there. Are we gonna be happy with that? No, I don't. When our inflation rate rises, we won't be happy, we'll pay for more expensive food, and we'll put more expensive fuel in cars. Long-term inflation expectations also suggest that most means, as I said to the inflation component, most of the goods in the consumer basket at the stage of price growth, already now. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] So most prices in Croatia are rising and 2 wolves are down inflation. Now that it's oil, you know that oil has raised 33% in the last month, what should we say? That we're relieved because it's going to affect deflation, to a higher rate of inflation? I do not believe that we should be happy with this, however, for Croatia it is bad, Croatia is a net importer of fuel or oil. Therefore, the presence of a deflation spiral cannot be discussed at this time. Before the conclusion, let me just point out the second key job of the CNB. So she has two key tasks. One is maintaining price stability, the other is financial stability. I would say that the CNB has been particularly successful in this second objective, maintaining financial stability. We had the second strongest recession in the EU and we didn't have a financial crisis, so the banking sector managed to stay stable. I must say that this is not only self-fulfilment but is also a fruit of long-term and systematic work because the financial stability infraction is expensively paid. On this graph, you can see the cost of financial crisis in different EU countries. Croatia ended up, we had a cost of 0 fiscal, and you can see that other countries had costs that reached 60% of GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4374	I beg you to conclude, because time has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4375	Here is the final monetary policy of the CNB currently extremely expansional and certainly is neither a brake nor an obstacle to economic recovery and the acceleration of its recovery. If all economic policy players make quality decisions that will go towards correcting the structural weaknesses of the Croatian economy, then this current character of monetary policy will be more successful in seeking the recovery of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4376	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4377	Thank you very much. Mr. Governor, since there has been a debate here in recent weeks on State Audit Reports which has also been guaranteed by the Constitution by an independent institution and has not been here to debate and even a critical look at their work when mentioning anything about the CNB then it is already an invitation, has elements of the coup, even threatens with a coup, and perhaps those who speak negatively should expect arrest. Well, I'm just waiting for my immunity to come off and get my belt off. You said the minimum reserve rate was down. Yes, you also reduced it in one day 17 billion kuna by borrowing the state at 6.5% of the interest from the funds that were fired because of the reduction in that minimum reserve rate. Looking at the income available and listening to what you've been saying here for 40 minutes, taking into account the income available to each individual, the various salaries, the level of obligations, employment, payout, non-refundable loans, it turns out that Croatia, but Croats live in paradise only because they don't know it. But the people don't think so. Only users of loans in Swiss francs don't think so. Why isn't there a single loan in the Swiss franc today? And no decision has been made. What happened? Is the structure of the loan, and as far as you're talking about the Swiss franc best shows that the closest member of the family has raised a loan in Swiss francs, how convincing you were. The structure of the loan is unfavourable. Does the National Bank have any responsibility for the structure of the loan? Is there any responsibility for the level of interest rates that is farthest from all European Union countries? Is there any reason why it serves an econtamination rate? What did the Croatian National Bank escount at an escontaneous rate? Nothing in the last 15 years. Instead of guarding small banks because they are precious and jeweled Croatian economy like a small entrepreneur, we do everything we do to destroy a small entrepreneur and a small bank, and in this front of the Croatian National Bank, and with the statements of the Vice Governor, there were examples where it says that Croatia does not need small banks and that it should offer them to these others to buy them and then send them to temporary managers, and wherever you send a temporary manager, the temporary situation is even worse than it was when you declared. If we only knew why you unblocked the CREDO bank account for 12 seconds and who charged everything in those 12 seconds then we'd know what the CNB did, what sin in that case. And please, let me, if we could listen to the lecture 45 minutes just 15 seconds already [[Thank you very much.]] But we haven't heard a word about the business costs of the CNB that rose from 296 million kuna to 309 million kuna in 2014. [[Intruder: It's a minute and 20 seconds.]] Not a word of the cost increase for employees who rose from 158 to 165 kuna and other employee costs increased from 27.9 to 31.5 million kuna. There is no institution where employee costs remained 20% of the total cost per employee. Usually it's 2 to 3% of the 20. But no wonder.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4378	Thank you very much. We have to leave something to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4379	There won't be a debate, I'll tell you in advance. But no wonder.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4380	Yes, yes, but we must, we must limit time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4381	When most attention is paid in the CNB, the competition in which chefs who have the ability to combine the taste of food and drink are sought. It's a central task.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4382	Thank you very much. I'm asking all nicely to stick to time and exhibitors and those who replicate because it doesn't make sense. They'll answer,... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we move on to the Committee's opinion. So will the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate and we're going straight to the representatives' clubs. The first came to the Club of Representatives of the Most on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4383	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable MPs, the MPs, the esteemed governor. Here I will try to make some observations in these 15 minutes in front of the Most Representatives' Club regarding half-yearly financial status information in CNB's monetary policy. Unfortunately, that half-year-old information was least talked about, and this is true, I would agree with my colleague Maric to be one lecture aimed at defending the existing state of affairs, meaning the monetary policy that has been taking place over the past 20 years. I just remind you that the CNB implements monetary policy on a model based in 1993 and then the main goal was the anti-inflation programme and on the basis of such a CNB programme, and today it runs monetary policy as if behind every corner is an inflation lurking force that will jump a citizen or a company or simply contaminate the entire country. From this exposure we could actually notice that everything is fine, everything is even more beautiful, as if we're on Titanic, playing beautiful music and the Titanic is slowly sinking. The population has fallen on its knees, businesses, business is on its knees, debts are large only the financial sector is stable, "something rotted in the state of Denmark". However, before these crucial presentations, I will look back on nature in the last few days, some media are simply commenting and polymising with the report, regarding the CNB's report really saying that this is a one-way trip, that it should not be debated, that it only has to be taken into account. So gentlemen go to the website of the European Central Bank, there is a translation in Croatian. Well, I'll only read two sentences. As an institution which receives its legitimacy directly from the citizens of the European Union, the European Parliament plays a key role in calling the European Central Bank on account. Moreover, I do not read too much, within the framework of the reporting obligation, the President of the European Central Bank is taking part in the plenary session of parliament to present the Annual Report of the European Central Bank on which Parliament decides. Perfectly clear. Now I'm going to look back at a few points related to this half-yearly information and a little earlier speech from Governor Vujčić. He emphasized several very important things. He found on charts that Croatia is in a situation of extremely large euroisation, which is approximately 70.75% on average. When in one country you have a share of foreign currency of 70, 75% in loans, which in deposits is really hard to keep monetary policy on the other 25% that makes up the domestic currency. The question arises, then, why have you stimulated the euroisation of the system over the past 20 years, and you have not deeuroised a bit every year to expand space, maneuvering space to conduct monetary policy with the predominance of kunas in circulation. No, gentlemen, you've been scaring the public, all of us, that it's a return and that the greater participation of the Kuna is in circulation that will cause inflation and that it will bring us back to the time of the former Yugoslavia. It's an ideological speech. It's not a scientific speech. We here have to use the arguments, because we expect both the professional public and the general public who lives worse and worse. So nothing was done to deeurisation not only that, but it was your concept to quickly and wider the euro system in order to introduce the euro as soon as possible. However, you forget that the introduction of the euro, the main precondition for the introduction of the euro, is so-called. real convergence, not nominal convergence and master criteria, is practically no longer valid. And look at a series of papers that call for them to be questioned, to be completed because they no longer hold water. So you're replacing the thesis, so those who aren't sent into matter seem to be speaking well. Your next thesis is that Croatia is a small and open economy and that it cannot have any more independent monetary policy more sovereign, etc. We don't have to state, of course, the example of America, Germany, these are big countries, and we have little in common with them. But we have a lot in common with Hungary and Greece. If we look at Greece that introduced the euro, we see how it ended. If we look at Hungary or Poland that kept national currencies, sovereignty, which wisely managed their exchange rate and forints, look at their external trade balance as well as other indicators, and we'll see what the situation is like. So it's not exactly the point that Croatia, it is a small and open economy, but it's not true that it can't do anything. Besides, let's set one against thesis. You say we have a exchange rate that's already fixed for 20 years. You're in favour of a slight depreciation. And I stand for it because it would be dangerous to carry out a devaluation. Well, gentlemen, why didn't you in the past 20 years or 15 years every year one percent weaken the exchange rate which is a marginal thing? Today, we would have a foreign exchange exchange rate that is somewhere around nine kunas that would be much more competitive and much more helpful to the economy. No, you didn't do anything about it. Or you, when you've euroed the system to the limit. Today you're telling us there's nothing more you can do. Well, we don't need that kind of explanation here in Parliament or the public. We're looking for a solution to the problem. In this context it continues to mean, an internal devaluation programme is offered and it should go through wage cuts and pensions, i.e. through the back of workers and pensioners and they are not ready to do so. Therefore, the exchange rate continues to destroy exporters and must be taken into account. We're not into devaluation, but we've lost valuable time here. Interest rates are too high. They destimulate and corrupt, destroy the competitiveness of our businesses, entrepreneurs, and that's the problem. When we talked about interest, you mentioned last time that the problem is that businesses do not have collateral, they do not have credit skills, and Mr Cacic has brought up one thesis before and I agree with it that this guarantee fund would be a good solution within the meaning of a new concept of monetary policy, the monetary reform that we will implement and which will bring benefits to this country. Furthermore, when we talk about why high interest rates are high. They are also high because the mandatory reserve in Croatian banks is too high. How much is she worth? 12%. The minimum reserve for banks on each deposit of 100 kuna 12 kuna must be allocated to the National Bank and the banks make 0%. It's a direct cost for banks. Romania alone in Europe has such high minimum reserves. It should've been reduced. How much does the Czech Republic have? 2%. How much is Poland? Three and a half percent. Hungary? About 2%. Why does Croatia have 12%? Well, because it's being guarded since the latter is the stability of the exchange rate, that is, last time I explained it to you because the monetary system called the currency committee is being preserved, and in it the exchange rate must be fixed. In such a monetary system, external debt has to grow legally and the country cannot move forward. She, the monetary system, legally produces pro-registration tendencies and it is an neo-colonial model of the country's monetary system, means like Croatia and we wonder why we can't get out of the crisis. That is why the reform is monetary and the position of the Croatian National Bank is very important, it needs to be changed. And the other thing is that it needs to be europeanized. So we're not some young Turks who want to destroy something here, we want the new monetary policy to be in the service of the economy's maid, to encourage it and to take such measures. So the immobilization of money through the mandatory reserve and other instruments is huge. Only through a mandatory reserve there is about 24 billion kuna standing in the account of immobilized money. Once again, I stress that the currency clause should not be applied to loans or deposits. But the citizen who brings effective foreign money into the bank and lays it down must be guaranteed the right to receive the same currency he asked for on his request. But if he brings the kunas and leaves them and says to the currency clause, he can't tie it. So that's pure elemental logic. Last time I said something that unfortunately did not raise special attention and interest at this stage, the stag-deflation situation. It's not true that we don't have deflation, we've had a third year of deflation, we have a stagnation of the economy. So we have a very ugly phenomenon that's a stag-deflation that's been going on for the third year. I mentioned last time that the CNB balance sheet had one position called the capital account. It contains, in that account, $17.2 billion. In these 17.2 billion kunas are the profits of the CNB over the past years and it is allocated to general and special reserves. If I didn't, I would repeat once again, according to my assessment of 7 to 10 billion kunas, it can and should be transferred from the CNB capital account to the Ministry of Finance, which would be an amazing aid to the new minister, to the new government to solve a lot of problems, not to hit the salaries and pensions of pensioners, because this would not put the stability and management of CNB risks, because such practice is also in other central banks, and this would solve a lot of problems. So it would be good to discuss this question of whether it can be done. Yeah, right! These matters should be managed and there is not enough dialogue between the Ministry of Finance and the CNB, i.e. monetary and fiscal policies. What we stand for in our programme is a strategy, a new strategy called targeting inflation. Why is this strategy good? It is first applied by the European Central Bank. So if we're going to europeanize, here's what we do in monetary terms. Why is targeted inflation important for Croatians, especially Croatian citizens? So that's why if people are already afraid of inflation then the People's Bank will say next year we target inflation at 3 to 4% or 2 to 3%, we will defend it by all means and instruments, and then it's clear to all of you that there will be no inflation above that. And you're calm, you can project your investments, your yields, your investments are protected. So a lot has been replaced here. Our interest in this economy is to have low interest rates, to have a more favourable exchange rate and to have stable inflation. So we need to change the strategy we're talking about. And what is the right formula for Croatia? I also agree that monetary policy has its options, limitations, that it is not a magic wand that solves everything. In parallel, however, restructuring of the real sector, businesses, must be carried out in Croatia. That's terribly important, restructuring. However, you cannot conduct, for example, a part of a restructuring called financial restructuring if you have high interest rates, if you have an unfavourable exchange rate. But with the restructuring of the real sector, businesses need to implement monetary reform and tax reform. In such an interaction and a combination we will come up with a new macroeconomic policy that will certainly bear fruit, and I assure you each of the scientists can offer their own vision of truth but I'm asking myself one thing here if 20 years leading the concept of stability like this why we live badly, why does the economy fail? And then the child can conclude that something's wrong, something's wrong with that concept, and it has to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4384	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4385	Thank you. In particular, here the governor presented several things that we disagree with, and on the other hand, colleague Lovrinovic presented several things that we agree on. In particular, when I talk about what we disagree with, I don't have 3 minutes, but the High Credit Euroisation Governor explains this and the justice that banks actually have to protect themselves in accordance with the rules of the profession and according to EU regulation. That's clear. But this turns out that the CNB actually has very limited activity and tied hands, and that's certainly not true. In fact, the CNB should be less involved in promoting itself, and more concerned with what is in the interests of citizens and, of course, in the interests of the state. We are aware of, of course, the regulatory and other obligations that you have because Croatia is an EU member and you have to stick to but it is clear that the CNB did not actually do everything it needed and what it could in the interest of protecting citizens. We can now look at these nice tables, charts, indexes, etc. But creating a macroeconomic direction doesn't have any effect on us here in the Parliament because it's being influenced elsewhere. But what we can really influence is to say for ourselves, on behalf of the club that this report is not satisfactory. So you weren't protecting the citizens, you were more hands-on to the banks and large capital. The Swiss case is a clear example of that. You have not sided with Croatian citizens. And what's very important to ask. So when we speak constantly is the current issue of the salaries of parliamentary representatives, directors of companies etc.. So I'd like to ask you what the pay is for you specifically governor, what is the salary of your vice governors, what is the salary of the director of your services? How come CNB employees have 1% interest on loans and how come I, as a normal citizen, have as much interest as I have and doesn't have 1%? That's the case with some other institutions. So the CNB is a state in the country after all. They're fine at this point. And I know that after the term of office many and probably even the governor will get a job at the bank But more than that, let me just finish the sentence, I guess it's normal now in Croatia but I hope it won't be anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4386	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond. He won't, no. Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Professor Lovrinovic was clear and repeated what was needed, meaning the sovereign monetary policy of course within the framework of the European Union. However, I was really intrigued just before the CREDO Bank. Is it possible for Professor Lovrinović, and also my question to my colleague Vujčić that it is possible during the blockade of the CREDO Bank or as someone professionally says in 12 minutes draws their selective money... 12 seconds, well, excuse me, is that a felony, is that the same category for all citizens? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Could everyone have gotten away with it, or could they have gotten away with it? And who are these individuals? I agree with Mr Lovrinović in many ways that Croatia must protect the interests of the Croatian economy in the best way that these reforms are implemented. However, it is also an interesting thing that during this year very well the Croatian bank is taking care of the menu and it is a good healthy menu of fish craft 190 thousand kunas, similar to some carpets and carpets, a deadline, while for hiring only 24 thousand kunas to encourage employment. I read that in a number of media outlets today. So, Professor Lovrinović, what do you think of the meaning of CERDO Bank and the way it's delivered in 12 seconds means for certain and selective people? Is that possible in a civilized state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4388	The honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović will probably answer but this is not directly related to this topic we are talking about, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4389	Well, I'd like to thank you, first of all, for a little earlier discussion of Mrs. Petrievcan. You've well established that the CNB is indeed state-owned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4390	The answer is, you should have talked to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4391	But I'll be connected to Bulju, of course, since I didn't, OK...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4392	Yeah, but you didn't call back then. I mean, there's some sort of order and a Rules of Procedure in the Parliament. Even for the newer members, there was plenty of time to read it, so I'm asking you to stick with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4393	Your question about the CREDO bank, I can't answer that because I'm not an expert on IT systems, but I can only say that it's obvious if it was about that and it's been written a lot about why it means the system for a few seconds, it should have been determined by the audit and we see that here is one of the big problems that the state's audit has never entered the CNB. So she can revise, state review all around, state's attorney's office, this, this, everything but the CNB has never been. Therefore, we do not know the true state of affairs. And that's why, that's why you can say it's the state of the country. Well, here's Mr. Bulj that's one question that certainly deserves a lot of attention, and it's about business transparency and that citizens should have full information about what's going on so they don't practice double-practice banks, and that's what violated trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4394	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4395	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I'm disgusted by this lecture today and I'm actually asking if we live in the same country. In fact, I come from Slavonia, you know that over 100,000 people have gone from there during your term of office, and from Croatia, we have gone after bread with over 100,000 people. So we're talking about importing food that has now gone beyond 68% of our country's needs. You speak very kindly of import, even with joy, it is not clear to me at all. We've just been importing a threat to sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4396	Comrade Vukovac, I'm sorry to interrupt. But look, the purpose of the replica is to replicate the previous speaker. You've had all the time If you wanted to replicate to Mr. Governor, you could replicate back then, like a colleague, Maric. [[Invader Vukovac: Well, my colleague Lovrinović and I are actually like-minded.]] Therefore, I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure. [[Vukovac Invader: O.K.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4397	My colleague Lovrinović made it very clear what he thinks from the professor's point of view, so I am speaking from the aspect of the person who sees what is happening on the ground. So my opinion is that we're not at all in the same wavelength. Here's what I'd do. I'd just take a chance and call the governor if it wasn't a problem for him to come to the country and feel the weight of a crisis that the state had fallen into in the last few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4398	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4399	Mr. President-in-Office, this issue is very much about monetary policy and this report because the position of agriculture is related to the financing and exchange rate. I will tell you here Mrs. Vukovac, Croatia produces about 150 thousand prosciuttos and hams, you have heard well, about 150 thousand. Croatian citizens eat about 600,000. So it turns out we can't produce, we can't produce about 400, 450 thousand. Are we the Alpine land, desert land? Gentlemen, this is a direct problem among other exchange rates. I didn't just say, among other things, a foreign exchange exchange rate that doesn't care about changing and collecting different inputs from energy, labour costs, etc. for 20 years. And every reasonable, normal country in agriculture within the framework of the exchange rate policy has so-called exchange rate policy. Undercover subsidies, but also implements less or more let's say by stimulating the exchange rate from Hungary, Poland, I speak for countries in Denmark that do not have. Good Denmark doesn't, because she's taking such a course as the Czech Republic. Therefore, here is one of the very great causes of the destruction of Croatian villages, Croatian agriculture, because this import of agricultural products really speaks of one disaster, the humiliating position and the depopulation of Croatian villages as one rural site, the settlement. So, which simply demographically destroy Croatia. That is why the story of agriculture is necessary and the story of the Croatian National Bank is very much about monetary-credit policy. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4400	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4401	Dear President, dear colleague Lovrinovic. I'd like to ask one question to you and to all of us. If the governor here said that all this explanation of him explained as well why we all live worse? By observing the governors of the banks, their work in the last 20 years I felt that Mr Rohatinski had been, for 12 years, the governor, had won the European Union award as the best governor. Perhaps you too, Mr. Wolfie, will receive the prize later. You are now four years old. And I'm asking how people got the prize and we're really getting worse and we're still living. If they're so good, I think the economy should have jumped, and I'm not going back to all the arguments that were and all that was going on in Croatia, where the mass of craftsmen closed the turns, the mass of farmers sold farms, failed, everything fell apart in the state, and we in some graphs see that the state is going in the right direction. I personally don't believe it, and on the other hand I'm looking here and I hear the costs of CNB employees rising to 30% and paying all the other costs, where people barely live and someone enjoys it. If you're a country in the country, you can do whatever you want, and I can see that you can think that this is something that needs to be done and that the revision needs to be entered into the National Bank and see how it's done and what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4402	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4403	Here, Mr. Muscle, thank you for asking. I will focus on this part of your question concerning the position of entrepreneurs and what does the CNB have to do with entrepreneurs. Through monetary, or credit policy, there is a great deal, because monetary policy determines the movement, in the credit policy of banks, and we know that crediting entrepreneurs today is unfavourable as per the lending structure, especially at the level of interest rates. Here we all know that interest rates enter the final, final price of each product. If the interest rates are high final product, the price of the final product of certain goods will be higher and directly disrupts our competition on the domestic market as well as on the external market. Another factor that threatens the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, both abroad and abroad, is the exchange rate. We have seen here over the past years and countless times repeated that it is simply unrealistic, that it is artificially maintained, that it is fixed, that it reacts to nothing and as such it simply destroys the relations and position of the conditioning of the business mile, that is, the economy sector and disrupts Croatia's competitiveness towards abroad. I repeat, there is no devaluation in mind, but a controlled depreciation that would be, which had to be, it would bring benefits. That's why I've objected to you for the past 20 years that you've only one percent controlledly weakened the kuna course, the export sector would be in a much better situation today than it is today. I therefore stress that the CNB is the most important institution in the economy, because it has an incredibly strong and capillary impact on all processes both in the financial system and in the real sector, and that is why it is so important.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4404	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4405	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, in your discussion, you mentioned that everything in Croatia is like Titanic, that some play and have fun and things go up. That's not true, but in part I agree with you in a statement that some enjoy. And as for my colleague Irene, who had her own replica, I couldn't agree more. It's very clear who, what, how and how you can't behave in a way that you live in your own world. So you can't have a salary of 35, 40,000 kuna and talk once a year in the Assembly about it just technically how the report is and what is the situation in the banking sector. They're nice tables, but we know that the banking sector is solid. Here, just look at the profit report. After a correction due to the Swiss franc last year, again everything the same as the old one, I get the same as before. So again, two and a half, three billion kunas this year will have a banking sector. And it's not the problem of the banking sector, it's not the problem, nor what someone is using the position that allows it is the regulator to look at, monitor, react, not only when the Swiss franc is to be solved but not for the benefit of the citizens but for the benefit of these same banks. And another thing I'm worried about, I don't know if you noticed after the debate a week ago about how the media got in the way and started defending that we couldn't, like, discuss or vote on the CNB. Look, I'd already be worried about these discussions. I would not try to do the damage control of the media and the public but I would imagine the debates of Croatian parliamentary representatives speaking on behalf of the citizens. It's not about perception, it's about what citizens feel. That is why less in the CNB should be addressed to the media and more to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4406	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4407	Here, Mr. Maras, I could agree with you in this part of it when you say Titanic and in a certain part of it, okay, but I understand what you're saying is that your initiative in the past government that's headed towards income discharge has been followed by a better, smarter, monetary policy, and a slight depreciation, so then the successes would be more visible by now. However, this has not happened and therefore will not be able to succeed any concept of economic policy in reviving the economy in increasing competitiveness if this monetary reform does not happen, if monetary and credit policies are not more proactive, more active and strong support to producers above all because this monetary and credit policy is destructive to the real economy. That's really the problem. It has led, this kind of monetary system has led to it being done, that we have a hyper-stable liquid financial system, a hyper-insolvent real system means businesses. Therefore, banks, financial institutions go in the woods and the real sector goes in the road. The governor says he has as much liquidity as you want. Yeah, but she's been sucked out, the real sector's been decommissioning. It now stands there as a warehouse in bank accounts without being used. It's not expansion policy, it's not the consequence of your measures, it's the detour policy, and you're deliberately replacing the thesis. So this is not about the expansion of monetary policy, but about one phenomenon of deleveraging that occurs in depression, recession and deflation. So in conclusion, what you've said requires a different new monetary and credit policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4408	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4409	Dear President, we heard an appointment of prognostics this morning. So I wonder is it for Mr. Lovrinovic can Croatian economists agree on any fundamental issues at all? Where's the analyst? We're talking about the former state, I'd like to say even though I'm a total layman about the economy that everything in our country was the same as it was in the '90s. Except for one factor, which is hyperinflation. Here's what we can expect, here's a question concrete by the end of '16. year will the kuna rate remain stable by the end of the year because this country is 60% tied to the euro? Secondly, how can we expect progress if there are no structural reforms because in Croatia half of the employees work as employees for a state where there is no productivity, more than half of them. Since 2008. GDP dropped 13%, retail turnover 16%, industrial production dropped 16%, etc. What's it gonna be? The liquidity issue, here are three-quarters of all Croatian companies affected by liquidity shortages. What's going to happen to those questions? The Croat couldn't buy a tractor until '64. For years and a second-hand tractor, where is the question of denationalization? What about state land, etc.? What can we expect is there any answer to these questions from these powerful economists in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4410	He will try to answer the honourable representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4411	You said well, Mr. President, I'll try to answer because there are a lot of questions here and it's heavy. I'll tell you that an American president had said and asked him so well when you're going to do something and he asked, he brought economists, says what do you think to solve this situation? This one said that if we do this in one hand we're going to have these consequences, but if we do this, it's going to happen to the other hand. And another economist also, he said then he said give me a please find some one-armed economist so that he can give his opinion and a proposal as straight as he should. Mr. Glasnović, you've identified one important thing here. I see in you a charge of energy that I would use to finally solve this issue. What you're saying is the position of the real sector. So he's holding us all, he's feeding us all, and he's vitally important. Of course, public services are also important as one infrastructure, logistics, as one business framework for the real sector. Well, in that sense, I'm saying, I can't, I repeat, that someone wouldn't get me wrong, that's where I agree, that's where she has some limitations, but when we say structural reforms, I was just saying that you're going to do a restructuring of HZ or restructuring of shipbuilding, she's fine, she's being implemented, however, under difficult conditions or any other firm in the conditions of high interest rates, unreal exchange rate, such credit policy. Well, there's a lot of problems. That is why I argue that structural reforms can not be implemented effectively until monetary reforms are agreed and implemented at the same time. So this isn't about the isolated behaviour and observation of these sectors, it's just that. And to answer you specifically the question of those who have led and shown negative results so it's their turn to admit that it didn't work out. That's the answer to your question, so that concept is no good. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4412	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4413	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lovrinović. I agree with you that the concept of economic development in the Republic of Croatia is 22 years I would say exactly the same. I hope we all here in the Parliament agree that this concept no longer yields positive results. Now it's up to me and I don't know as an agent to answer, and you should answer that for an average citizen now, that's what I'm asking you. Whether in this concept, I quote from the CNB report, the semi-annual exchange rate according to the euro was stable, which is crucial for maintaining financial stability in the country. Who does it benefit when it doesn't bring results to the concept? Who's winning? Who's profiting at it? Is this keeping the value of our external partners or is it keeping the value of our production on the European market? What's in there? And does that have anything to do with bank ownership? Why would I ask that? I will quote from a professional article by Croatian experts a sentence, like this: "American Nobel laureates concerned about the penetration of the capital of other countries in the United States." '91. The years are being told to your government, "When you sell to foreigners parts of the industry, then you sell to the body and when you sell to the banks, you sell both soul and body.". Does this concept have anything to do with bank ownership? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4414	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4415	Mr. Light, thank you for this question, it's really essential. It's hard to answer briefly, but I think I'll be able to guess at least the point. It has a lot to do with the ownership structure in the banking system, especially something else. I explained here last time that the CNB instead of crediting in kunas, creates primary money to approve it to banks and banks further population and citizens. Not because of the currency committee's monetary system, it imports foreign credits so that foreign credits can create an equivalent value in kunas and then approve them. Now what's the connection here? It turns out that CNB protects such a fixed exchange rate due to the currency risk that arises due to imports of foreign exchange loans to Croatia. So you have one phenomenon, which is that you in banks almost don't have to have a risk management that applies to the euro. Why? Because the management of risks in the Croatian economy as far as the euro is concerned has taken over the CNB as a whole. So that's a direct answer to your question. But if he's taking care of it dominantly, then he doesn't take care of the economy. Because you can't have a stable exchange rate at the same time and lower the interest rate, these are conflicting goals and I prefer certainly lower interest rates and one very, very controlled depression. It's a model, and I hope I've managed to guess the essence of your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4416	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Radiir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've had a similar story once before and in short. What I would say, and I suppose, regardless of what was pointed out, I would stress the problem of monetary and credit policy, Mr Lovrinovic, I would stress something else. We have a situation here that's so-called. The authorities legislative, executive, judicial, monetary and therefore we go this state in the state, monetary. The legislative one goes to the election, changes as it changes. I don't think I have 70% of the new MPs in the Parliament right now. The executive changes with a legislative connection. And indeed we have two authorities that no one is seriously controlling and that have a disastrous, harmful, destructive, deadly impact on Croatian society by their poor actions. Sudska, there's something we've heard about here, we have to take responsibility for that power, it's not somewhere else, it's in this country and the CNB. But once again, the CNB is not the one who is essentially responsible. We are essentially responsible representatives in this House. Today, yesterday, the day before yesterday. And once Petra said something that they've been doing well these 25 years we'd have a lot less to do. We weren't doing well, and I was. So it's an important topic. Here I really am. Three factors affect, CNB, state and bank. [[The President's intrusion: Thank you.]] The banks will always go after the profits, let's forget all the other stories. The CNB must be socially responsible. Together with the state, it's our responsibility to change things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4418	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4419	Honestly, I don't know after all I've heard what to say. Stay and Lovrinovica I have to ask you. Wait a minute, stay. Because otherwise it doesn't make sense. I'm not saying this for me. I'm talking about myself because I don't know. I'm here and I'm publicly saying that I don't know this problem and that's why I'm asking you to stay. I've been told a lot through individuals, through the replicas of other colleagues. But listening to Mr. Governor, it was usually good with slides that I didn't understand because they're completely unclear to me too, and then we have Mr. Lovrinovic who won't tell her everything, but he's had a lot of problems. A lot of things. We're coming to this story and Mr. Lek who said I don't know. You convinced me something wasn't right, you convinced me it wasn't good. In my ignorance, I always thought that money wasn't the most important thing in life, and I probably don't think it's the most important thing today, but obviously in the society we live in, the civilization we live in is becoming very important, so the one who controls these money flows and manipulates it in a certain way. There's only one thing. You, if I understand you correctly, are very skeptical about this high degree of euroisation in Croatia. When it puts it in the context of what happens in the world, for example, England. We may not be for use, we may not be for comparison, but they say in advance in the next five years there are no euros, there are no talks at all on both laborists and conservatives. And now I want to know what to do about it? Another thing that's important. You convinced me that by its measures CNB has a significant impact on the export component of the Croatian economy Yeah, I'm asking you to tell me what you're suggesting if it's a legislative change, because I don't know if this stays just in the debate and the recommendations, then there really isn't any of it. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time.]] As Mr. Cacic says, I think we should think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4420	The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4421	Thank you, Mr. Dodig, very specific question. I'll try to answer briefly. You're asking me how this euroisation could be reduced in ways. So there are a number of countries in the world that have succeeded from Israel, Turkey, Poland, some Latin American etc., some less, some more. I say right away, neither is the goal nor is it possible to Euro-indicate consciousness to zero. That would suck. But consciousness is one 30% in the system, yes, not 70, 75%. How can you do that? By preferring, i.e. the Kunisation of the System, to popularise and not only popularize, but to take proactive measures to expand the use of the Kuna. How can he animate you to save more in kunas so you don't have to be afraid? So in a way to increase the minimum reserve rate for foreign deposits and to give you certain other benefits in order to increase the practically kuna savings, and whose sources of money in kunas are increasing, then banks will also approve loans more in kunas. That's why it's important to take an inflation target strategy so people don't fear their domestic currency will lose purchasing power. So it's a basic prerequisite and there's still a number of things, because I don't have time to explain to you in detail what other measures to take. But I can assure you that there is a very clear concept that you can deeuroise yourself to a certain limit, and that it can be useful for the country. So we know the concept, but the concept was different. Don't deeurize popularize the kuna. No, rather than euronize more, as soon as the euro is taken over and then enters the Greek script without any criticism. So that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4422	Thank you very much. And by doing so, we exhausted what should be called a replica, although it definitely convinced me that we need to start seriously talking about changing our Rules of Procedure because the replica institute that was designed completely different turned into an institute just shorter, much shorter than a normal debate. So why don't you discuss it normally. Each of us can discuss and have 10 minutes to discuss, report for debate, etc. Well, good. In any case, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4423	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed governor, ladies and gentlemen. We have a half-yearly report from the Croatian National Bank and says about the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. In this esteemed House in the last term, it wasn't very common for the governor to come when it comes to a six-year-old report, but this time we have the honor. Since we have this honor, I have to admit that I expected to hear what happened in half a year, that with these figures and charts that we have an explanation, and we've had one lecture of 40 minutes, a lecture that talked about various theories, a lecture that said what was small open, which is a small open economy, which is what should happen, how it should go. It was very objective on the side like this, and if it wasn't for us, the governor of the CNB, and if we had such a lecture, we might be very pleased. However, we did have one lecture from which we did not see what happened in the first semester of 2015, in which direction Croatia is going, which, in the field of Croatian economy, did some change happen. What are these changes we can expect? But we heard a series of topics without any arguments behind it. What's a fact and what we have to lead about. We have three subjects to lead. This is fiscal consolidation, continued implementation of structural reforms and co-ordinated investment promotion. And that's the role of the CNB, that's the role and monetary policy, and we haven't seen anything about it. In 2014, there was a major decline in oil prices. So, the price of $120 per barrel oil was $60 per barrel, and those oil-related experts said it was the lowest price they'd ever be below. In 2015 she was at one hour at the end of 2015 20 to 30 dollars per barrel. It would be very convenient to see which wave of oil price cuts affected Croatia's economy and what happened there. We also had one finding, says price stability. The importance of CNB on price stability. And then says raises the prices of domestic products and lower import prices. And when you add up plus and minus you come to zero and you have price stability, but what do you have behind it? What's the point of all this? What is the purpose of encouraging the economy? I must admit that this whole business that has been mentioned on several occasions is based on the legislative authority and the executive authority and the judicial authority and the monetary authority as a four running staff. At the end of the staff will be best run by those who are equal. If one runs great, two so-so, one sits that staff will always be the last. So those who equally run the staff will always come to the goal and come with the result that speaks of them. The importance of monetary policy is equally important. She can't be unrelated to everyone else, she has to be in the function of everyone else. We're all behind structural reforms here, we're all in favour of co-ordinated investment. And what we had a chance to see is that what we have, we have a continuous incentive of the banking sector, and that's what's not good. Similarly, on several occasions in previous speakers, the governor first opened the fear of the population. Fearing the population is one very serious finding. Fearing the population is something that's not good. So, as all TVs have stable viewers who watch and the Croatian Parliament has people sitting in front of screens and really watch what happens in the Croatian Parliament. And they may not understand everything but they will certainly understand the word devaluation, they will certainly understand the word inflation. There's just enough here and there's a head sitting there that remembers that time when people were getting paid, they immediately turned them into some foreign currency. If we want to restore trust and trust in the domestic currency, if we want to trust in the kuna, then we have to do everything in our power to make this trust so. And we all have to work together. There's the role of the CNB. The Croatian National Bank must not be an observer, the CNB cannot be here and that we have a 40-minute lecture, and that we have no explanation of what happened in the first half of 2015, which in the first half of 2015 is something going on, what are these economies or what are the activities that show progress? Who are they that don't show? What will we do with investing in those who show and what will we do with those who do not? And that's the role of the CNB. Through the report for the first half of 2015 and through the analysis of this report from those most responsible and these are the representatives of the CNB we have a direction, we have a policy to do and in which direction we should move on. So I would just repeat the finding for this country once again, and we can only see the shifts if we run a staff that will reach the goal and that everyone is running equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4424	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Radiir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, perfect order, stability is definitely in the morgue. We don't have any problems here, if nothing happens, no one takes any risks and no one goes anywhere. In that sense, it is a question of understanding what the CNB is. The CNB has defined itself as an institution that is there to maintain price stability. Perfect. You have three factors that have a significant impact here, banks, CNB, government and behind the government's back representatives who should in some way influence it. From the banks you'll never live to see, I say once again that anything else is in focus except profit, of course it is. It's unquestionable. All the stories of the socially responsible, the green-responsible, the kind, the dear, all the same. Profit's their job. It'll work, and all this other stuff can only be masks. However, the CNB cannot be conscious, so they are reduced to profit. One factor is clear, one factor is clear. The CNB cannot be reduced exclusively to price stability, cannot and must not. That's why there's a state. The CNB itself will not do anything, the CNB will not move anywhere if this Government today is not already today and it before does not start itself and does not ask the CNB, in the end we can also change there by not making a decision on the report but also there are possibilities for change, does not ask and does not provide the possibility that monetary policy that is this guarantee framework that guarantee scheme becomes transient. We have to give the CNB a chance to play what's played must be done. This way everyone has an alibi to do nothing. The government says CNB nothing, the CNB says government says nothing and the banks meet because nobody says anything. But it's not good for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4426	Thank you very much, although there was no question anything will answer the distinguished representative Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4427	Although it wasn't a question I might have referred to this first finding if it were the order of the cemetery, it's really the turn of the cemetery but the right to the funeral has everyone. Someone gets that good term and someone gets the little worse term. And here it is that everyone has the responsibility and that there is the responsibility of the National Bank, the responsibility to what he does. And when we're going to have a responsibility, we all don't need to pursue that perfect order, but we need to strive for responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4428	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4429	Here's a esteemed colleague you said two words at the very end of your address, quoting the governor of the CNB fearing the population. I would like to say on this subject that recently in the media, I do not know if 62 or 68 people around the world have a wealth as one third of the total population of the globe. In fact, through you and yourself, but directly and directly to the governor of the CNB, I would ask a question in the context of the responsibility and obligations that we have to take in order to actually protect that medium layer that has disappeared and otherwise in the global world but is definitely missing in Croatia, it is very important. We must take great care of him, and I think we should open a discussion on this subject. Both Mr. Leco and Mr. Cacic said that responsibility was not only on the government. And I've said countless times that he's also been to this assembly. So the governor of the CNB should also offer us in this context of responsibility concrete measures based on which they would be the basis for our debate here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4430	In a similar way, they will try to respond to the distinguished representative Anka Marak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4431	Thank you very much. This time it's a little harder for me to answer, it really wasn't a question, we automatically raise it when it's replicated, we raise it to the answer to the replica. But really, all of us together need to address the subject when you say fearing the population behind it can hide anything and be as careful as possible when doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4432	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on whose behalf the distinguished representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4433	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Governor, with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today, we have half-yearly information ahead of us, and this morning we heard from the various monetary theories of two opposing attitudes. However, what I would like to point out in my report, in the report on behalf of the SDP Club, is to go a little deeper and see what the situation is like within the banking business and to see what the total liability of banks is, and you know that they run the economy, they push it towards economic growth, and also because of their particular policies, they can bury that economy in a long-term recession. And we are, in fact, in the 6-year recession, we were, and I'm actually going to try to show it, because of one irresponsible business bank policy, and you're actually going to try to figure out whether, within that, all of us have the responsibilities of the CNB and whether, perhaps, through certain legal solutions, we can step up certain legislative, legislative rules so that this doesn't happen to us in the future. Short-term financial operations, financial operations of banks. Certainly as Honorable colleague Cacic said, banks work with profit and no one has ever brought business and their profit business into question. However, the question arises when the Croatian economy or gross domestic product falls 13%, when Croatian citizens are in charge, when Croatia, Croatian companies are also in charge and are trying to return to the market whether it is normal for the entire banking sector to have 6 to 7 times the profit of. And who does he get a profit from? He gets it from the company and gets it from the citizens. There is a correlation between the relationship, and no one is against banks having profits when the economy is growing and profit is needed both because of the adequateness of capital and because of the overall system. However, the question arises where it comes from and how it is derived from that profit. In the first half of 2015, the profitability of the banking system was 4.7%. But when we look a little deeper into this report, and I'm going to rely on it is actually their quality portfolio. The quality of the portfolio is to see, it's measured how many loans they get back in order. According to the report, the share of partially compensateable and completely irreparable loans, so-called. The NPL or non-income loans increased from 17.1 to 17.3%. When you look at the structure of these non-income loans, it's total when you look at the total mass. It turns out that companies, so companies can't, their share of bad loans is 31% while somewhere the share of citizens in returning these loans is about 12%. And we see that it's this kind of environment that they bring in 17.1%. When the corporate structure or companies are obtained, one of the amazing data that I found in this report is that the share of bad credits is if public companies are removed, and you know that they are under the guarantees of the Ministry of Finance and that they are mostly returning neatly and that there was never a problem in returning credits where the Ministry of Finance was providing guarantees, when these two companies are reading from this part when the HAC is moving and the part that manages the roads is 65% of the share of bad loans to the construction sector. My people, what are we talking about? 65% of construction firms can't repay their loans. Even if we see, and what happened from the slide last week when Mr. Lovrinović actually pointed out that the building sector was the most actually funded and that actually the overall economic growth was actually based on either high-building or low-building and when you take that 65% of the total credit when this public business is moving away, we see that it is a very worrying data. When you see, on the other hand, citizens according to industries when you look at it, you take that these other non-income loans are about 33% according to the processing industry, according to trade 33% and the total building actually when these two public companies are added, they are also 33%. However, it seems to be a very big problem, we have a structural problem with the restructuring of loans or these... credit to the construction sector, and we know that the construction sector is our most important generator for the creation of gross domestic product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important generator. When you look at how neat or messy citizens are returning their loans, you see that about 12% of them are non-income loans. However, when we budget it, we see that citizens who have residential loans, and the most important loans, in fact, of those 123 billion kunas that citizens have, are about 60 billion kunas when they take up housing and mortgage loans. So 50% of all loans actually to the population are actually housing loans. And we see how important they are in the overall stability of the banking sector and towards citizens who have loans in their euro, with income loans about 5.7%. However, those in the Swiss franc actually amounted to around 14%. So almost three times the size of the Swiss franc loan compared to those in the euro. When you look further into the structure of these loans, you ask the question of how do you enter into restructuring of all these debts? And what the governor said for the last time, despite the excess liquidity in the financial market, is the question of what are we going to have so many of these kunas when they don't come to citizens and don't come to businesses? We boast that we have a billion euros in circulation available to citizens and available to companies in fact to encourage economic and economic activity. However, it does not come to citizens at all, or it does not come to businesses at all. And then there's all these reasons. The over-indebted number of non-financial corporations. That's also one problem where 80% of our company's gross domestic product is in charge. If you look at the European Commission report, it also lists one of the structural problems of the Croatian economy as a private debt, and private debt is a debt of companies and debt to citizens. Debt of the company 80% of gross domestic product, debt of citizens is 40% of gross domestic product. When it merges, it means 120% is a private debt in the Republic of Croatia. This is when seen in relation to Scandinavian countries or highly developed European countries still have low debt levels because they are at 200 and 300%. However, when looking at our competitors, let's say that the transition countries are very highly in charge of Croatia in the private sector when compared to Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and those other countries. The European Commission's report also states that one of the most important structural reforms is how to restructure private debt, because it is actually a generator for economic growth. You've seen if certain tax changes move a little, as far as the population is concerned, certain personal consumption has begun to move. Because personal consumption makes you 60% of gross domestic product. If your citizens are over-indebted, that is to say, they are due all the time, and this report actually states that for six to seven years, citizens are constantly deleveraging. They're also talking about companies. The question arises who will generate this economic growth. We have a problem with citizens who make up 60% of consumption and GDP, they're simply over-indebted especially when we see in this part about this part of the Swiss franc, so I can't return a lot of them to my credits. Then we switch and the country as the second component of generation of economic growth, which is also over-indebted when we speak about 85% to 90%. Then we have a third component of consumption, i.e. creating a GDP component. These are investment spending, i.e. investment spending, means companies to invest. And we see that they're also in charge of 80%. And the question is how do we see from these three components that we have a very high responsibility for both the state and the citizens and the companies, in which way and where this economic growth will actually be created, where it will be created. And then here's the question of debt restructuring. And here I'm going to open up the interest issue. Absolutely a matter of interest because Croatian companies, like Croatian citizens, are now EU citizens, i.e. we are operating on a single European market. The question arises if we see that 80% of corporations in Croatia are in charge, over-indebted, unable to obtain credit, and the second element is that the lack of collateral in the period, we do not have enough collateralised, so there are no more collaterals that banks would approve loans. And when you take that real estate prices dropped 30% from 2008 to 2014, so you're over-indebted, you don't have any more collateral to give because that part of the collateral has fallen, the population has fallen, the population is deleveraging for 6 years, it simply can't hold that further burden. The share of NPLs or non-income loans is growing, the question arises from which sources will economic growth be generated? So that's what's really going to be read in this financial report. And there is a question of the responsibility of the entire banking sector in which they have to be opened to restructure corporations in this way if necessary and especially do not want to be restructured because the always low collateralisation of property 30% simply cannot separate for the business of their businesses, find some new real estate to get and start a new investment cycle. In this report you will also find that of all the loans you have somewhere around 278 billion gross credits, when it's netted with certain reserves it's somewhere around 250 billion are net minus for reservations, you'll find that you have about 26 billion are just investment loans. So less, somewhere around 9 to 10% of all loans in the financial system are investment loans. And that's bad. That's what we need to change. We know that cash, non-intentional loans in the entire structure are 40 billion kuna. Investment loans that stimulate consumption, which create jobs that actually create Croatia's competitiveness are only 8 to 9%. And it's a structural problem inside banks as well as actually to turn to giving more investment loans, to actually create jobs and create certain competitiveness. Here I would like to say one more sentence about what the governor actually mentioned was their conflict with the banking sector. And this is about increasing the reservations that took place in 2013 compared to the share of their bad loans. This report states that the share of bad loans, meaning category B and C, which are irreparable or completely irreparable, amounts to around 48 billion kuna. In these 48 billion kunas, the majority of these loans relate to companies of some 33 billion while about 15 billion refer to the population. In what way to enter into this restructuring that the new stopper is actually an economy and that it is actually a frozen state that we have 6 years old and believe and the new government will have a lot of problems as the economy continues to encourage and it will be difficult to find new instruments if it does not enter into the deep restructuring of the loan, into a profound reduction of what we have said all along, interest rates that are very burdensome for citizens, and quite often we have been told that interest rates in the Republic of Croatia are defined by various formulas. In this report you see that the most important source of funding are actually deposits from Croatian citizens. So 290 billion kunas have deposits and actually on these deposits carried by Croatian citizens are actually trying all the time to say that in the country's risk premium calculations that we can't actually have a cheap capital price because we have a very high risk premium of the state. And then there's the question if it's about Croatian citizens who are actually there who you know you're carrying a certain savings deposit in the bank and you know how much you can get, there's no way if you get more than 0.5% today. The question now arises if Croatian citizens in that part of the transfer of money from Croatian citizens who receive 0.5% to Croatian companies who should have investment loans that will boost consumption why do these investment loans end up on interest rates of 6% and 7%? Why do they end up? I'll tell you why. Because the reservations, and the CNB there, I must commend them because in this part they forced the banks to increase their reservations compared to poor credit ratings. In this report, here's a very short one, just to tell you, over a period of four years, the banks have increased the reserves by 10 billion kuna and they are now at 53%. [[Intruding Downhill: Time.]] That's what nobody really talked about. The question of placement coverage is raised in relation to poor placements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4434	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4435	You are rightly wondering where growth will be because there is no economic growth without credit activity. It's an axiom. And the credit activity's dropping. 7 billion kuna is a reduced credit activity in 2014 compared to 2013. The structure of the loan does not guarantee growth. In the credit structure there are more loans to the population than the economy, which is alarming, and in the very structure of the population again alarming data that only 50% is waste on housing loans. In developed countries, 85% of the population's loans are spent on housing loans and only 15% on others. Because housing loans multiply other activities, primarily construction. And while there's no housing, there's no construction. The population is over-indebted. But what's he in charge of? On consumption. And the economy with reduced activity and increased liquidity in the paradoxical situation with increased activity has no credit activity. So the question has to be asked why isn't there? And there are more reasons why there is no credit activity in the economy. One reason is certainly a risk, too much risk. Today, instability and risk everywhere around you. First, the economic risk of payment of claims. Second, the risk of such high interest. We don't think today's 5 or 6% interest is high. Oh, it's very high with 0% inflation, with this credit rating, with this kind of credit activity, with this kind of purchasing power and available income. And so. And the large banks still do not finance economic projects, domestic production and small banks are disabled by regulatory measures because everything they place is declared to be non-refundable and no one is responding if this non-refundable loan is due to which they had to reserve the funds subsequently charged. And in most cases, it is known that a loan is also charged to the CNB which it declared to be non-refundable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4436	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4437	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, what is actually seen in this report is a very bad structure of credit that should stimulate economic growth. But let's open the question of why a certain group of loans favored, and later we saw that a very large part... The company, almost 65% were actually encouraged I can't return today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's exactly what we can open up the question because they were their clients at that point, they weren't just covered by the creditworthiness of that company, but the overall analysis was based on the rise in the value of real estate. And you could actually very easily get any kind of credit right in that part because they told you all along because we, we have very good coverage because of the rise in real estate prices, are actually approved. And then what happens next? A very large number of residents who pay housing loans remain trapped in very high real estate prices. You know when the economic boom happened in 2005, 2006 and 2007, in fact when loans were granted that citizens entered into relations when they were 2.5 or 3000 euros if they wanted to enter the arrangements in Zagreb. So not only did they have a currency risk that happened but they also had a price risk of the value of real estate that they would have to pay for the next 30 years. There were no regulatory circumstances. And what happens today? You have a 30% drop in value and citizens no longer have their assets to cover that part of the loan, and it's actually all the time if you can't repay the loan you're in very grave danger that you have to get out and then you still have to pay the bank back because your apartments, your apartment, can't cover your credit value.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4438	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4439	Thank you very much. There's a position here again, banks irresponsible, dangerous. Once again, the banks won't change. The banks only have one rule of play. It's a profit for our shareholders and let's not dream at all. No, we have nothing to call banks. We Parliament, we government, we CNB. So we and the CNB are factors that have to influence it. The last government didn't do it, neither did they before. In other words, where growth is hidden, where investment growth space is opened, therefore employment. Once again, the state must use all institutions, all resources, all resources to form a guarantee scheme in order to make flow money possible, that present money that the CNB can offer and provide. The CNB has a fantastic alibi that he didn't do it, he wasn't even trying to do it. He tried something a little marginal a few times, but he didn't find any answers. He's got an alibi. The government didn't do anything. Banks are overjoyed. The government must: a) use the European money offered for guarantees, the property standing there dead, not valorised, 31.4 billion euros stands, let's set aside at least a billion for the guarantee fund, give us a chance, fix the balances, our companies owe us 80%. What we want from them, they can't even ask for credit because they themselves are aware that balance sheets don't guarantee, so when they have top projects. It's the task of this government and this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4440	The answer to the replica... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4441	Thank you very much. Well, you say banks don't change. I'm just going to say one example of how banks in the U.S. are changing. You have all heard of Goldman Sachs, the largest bank in the United States, the value of assets greater than the total value of the Republic of Croatia, gross domestic product. You know what they agreed with the U.S. Department of Justice? You know what they agreed? They agreed to pay off the US finance ministry's treasury, now in January 2016 $5 billion. And you know why? Because they've released loans from the financial market from the type of our Swiss. That's your verdict. So it's a deal. They didn't even want to go to court because they said we'd lose more. At our place, they dare say we'll sue the state. Look at your haughtiness. This Parliament has passed the most important law, this Parliament has passed it, unanimously. And they dare, they say, we will sue the Republic of Croatia. In the U.S., they kneel and say forgive the U.S. government, we're going to pay you $5 billion because we made a financial market such a crisis that made not only an economic recession but a very large part of the U.S. citizens turn black. And these are now negotiations between the government. Once again I wanted to say here, 40 billion kunas are the loans the banks give to the state. You know how many reservations there are on those loans? Zero. What does that mean? They're going to sue the state where they work and they don't have any reservations. That's absurd. So they have to change their business, they have to evaluate the laws that this House has passed. If they're going to go against the law of this House where we unanimously made a decision, the whole system actually falls. And so let's look at how banks change and in other countries, admit their responsibilities, pay their fees and the speeches we won't charge the state, and we'll still pay because we've made a mess in the financial market of the United States.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4442	Thank you. And the next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4443	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As former minister, you fellow Lalovac have recently passed the Consumer Credit Act in the past term. You've talked a lot about loans, but this sphere of credit has recently been mentioned today as a protest over the lack of the workings of the DORH institutions and others that should protect these people from illegal interest-bearing loans to savings cooperatives. Which is why when the law is passed, the Croatian institution continues to mean that our unfortunates, after all they have done, continue to take up apartments, all properties and movables, which means in an illegal, interest-bearing way, with the help of someone from the Croatian state. Because our people couldn't be robbed with those interest rates in Croatia, because it certainly wouldn't have gone through in Austria. Because in us are the interest rates and normal banks that have come to our property because it's not normal. In Austria you get 10% interest, and the same bank that owns our bank there is 2 in us is 10. Well, please, if you could explain a little bit better. And another question, I'm not sure if you were a minister back then, but you'll explain. How is it possible for a CREDO bank to withdraw selective money within 12 seconds and someone not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4444	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4445	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I don't know about CREDO Bank, I'm not being referred. But probably the State's Attorney's office will do what you said today... in those 12 seconds to question and in this way you actually invite him to the institutions to check what you actually said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, when we talk about credit cooperatives that actually placed a loan. You know that the last amendments to the Consumer Credit Act have made three decisions where the jurisdiction of courts is actually placed in the Republic of Croatia, not Austria. We also brought about the purpose of this property. However, here I would open another very important question of what you actually said about these loans, which was actually based on what we can say under the Consumer Credit Act, which actually works on the basis of the EU where we can, we have the biggest alibi. Those loans, because I talked to those people when I was going around the field they were approved without verifying the creditworthiness of the debtor. It's a fundamental thing in banking business. In fact, the bank should check every six months according to its legal creditworthiness of the debtor. That means they gave them credit just because they were the same thing I was saying they watched you take that house. They didn't speak at all to discuss the creditworthiness of the debtor. And then now they report that they will sue the Croatian state. Well, I mean, this comes to absurdity. So, the Croatian government will have very strong support from us, to make it very clear and strict towards both cooperatives and bankers, to protect the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And these elements to definitely complete the Consumer Credit Act where it is put in place unless there was a credit assessment of the debtor's ability to give him something, meaning beyond the banking rules, that it could actually try to solve this part of the Gordian knot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4446	Thank you. The next exhibition is on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Governor with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues, so to be honest, right away, at the start of the fence, I have absolutely no intention of defending Governor Vujčić. I'm just going to try to be realistic in my debate, and I'm going back in 2000. However, take a look at all the critical - speaking colleagues. Before any discussion of any material not proposed by the Croatian government, the Croatian government is sending its opinion. And all of what some colleagues who were in the former governments were saying had the opportunity to quote through their opinions on the material they had received. And then that story would be consistent. This is an extremely important topic, the subject which is, among other things, the subject of one point of reference to the European Commission in the macro-economic balance of the Republic of Croatia, we are talking about in a rather unargumented and political way, and now I will say what. If we were to discuss anything here in this House today, then we should have discussed loans in Swiss, Austrian housing savings and corrective measures that threatened the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because in the first part of the report, the CNB's information is, in fact, about macroeconomic indicators whose effect was that Croatia was practically on the threshold of corrective measures by the EU yesterday and that we are discussing it, and in such a way, it would be said that we are serious. However, why today no one is talking about loans in Swiss, and this is the period during which we receive information from the Croatian National Bank when there was the most controversy in the Croatian society about loans in Swiss francs. I will also quote a summary of the European Commission's report on preventing the correction of the macroeconomic imbalances of the Republic of Croatia. He says, quotes: "Besides this, the ability of the banking sector to contribute to recovery could be limited due to the impact of the regulations adopted in September 2015 allowing the conversion of credit from Swiss francs to the euro." Now that you're listening, I'm sorry there's no fellow Lalove inside, so I'm not going to quote too much so I don't turn out to be talking until he's inside. When you listen to him, then that story is contradictory and diametrically contrary to what the European Commission says. However, watch us bind what the European Commission says whether we agree politically or disagree. And so it might be time today to talk about whether the Croatian budget is really being threatened by 8 billion kunas of return obligations to banks, how much we will lose due to reduced profits and a number of other things. Also, in this House of Commons, there was not once a request for a break in the lending of Austrian savings. It is definitely that everything was happening and that we would determine the fact that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice had to happen, and that was the conclusion here of the HDZ club a year ago and a few more days ago, to suspend the exercise. It's impossible for you guys to come to the yard with a camera and take pictures of your real estate and no one will react. And that's something the ministry has to do that's got to do. The Ministry of Justice should simply suspend all executions until the actual situation is established. Because what really happened, who made that mistake? What institution didn't do its job? And then that question would begin to resolve. This is how we talk, talk, talk, and we have the situation we have. However, I find a very interesting paragraph in this report, immediately on the first page, says under the conditions of the high liquidity of the domestic monetary system, the cost of borrowing of the state on the domestic market in the first half of 2015 contained at very low levels... In 2014, the interest rate on the loans of companies and the population on average decreased slightly compared to the previous year despite lower interest rates and gradually respecting the credit approval standards referred to by the Bank's credit activity survey. [[You don't understand.]] The population continued to be disbursed for six years in a row. Companies also reduced their debt to domestic banks in the first half of the year, but the total debt of companies grew due to the growth of debt financing sources mainly from abroad. So you know what happened? In view of the situation in Croatia, banks only sent all their best customers to cover and to the wing of their mothers banks, and they were in line with the positive Croatian regulations in debt at a lower interest rate outside. But that's not what banks did with troubled clients. And now for the consistency of what anyone's saying, who's talking. So, in 2000, as a relatively young representative, I turned out to be a heretic in this House when I asked the question of obtaining the CNB, its share in the budget, and according to then the CNB within the limits of the calendar year could intervene with its loans and help the state to bridge indifference etc. But that loan had to be returned by 31.12. Also, in 2015, the central bank due to, in fact, the 2005 pardon, as a reason for preventing the sudden growth of external debt generated by the business banks in debt outside, so by placing these loans in Croatia, increased the mandatory reserve I think from 13% to 15%. Then I, as some small minister in Croatia, dared tell the government that it would be good for the governor to consult with the Ministry of Finance and the Government and see what it is, and later I'll explain why I said it. A week later, however, there was a barrage fire that the finance minister dares to mention or say something that the central bank has done. But realistically looking at these mandatory reserves because all those reserves that banks had to have turned out to be 100 euros in debt, 60 euros was being placed, and 40 were in different positions. Then if you with 60 euros have to finance 100 euros, then you understand why the price of capital goes like that. So today it's in someone's best interest to go after the central bank. However, the question arises, what happened until practically 2014, 2015? From the media through political nomenclature or whether at some point it may be a central bank, I say I have no intention of defending Vujčić, the central bank said that certain things should not be implemented, that it could be very dangerous for the Republic of Croatia. And will it be dangerous for the Republic of Croatia to see about it in a month or two how much it will cost us all together. And the other thing will be very interesting to see the correspondence that went between the central bank and various ministries in the Republic of Croatia. So, the first of some concrete attempts at co-operation and joint action by the central bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia took place in 2009 and 2010 when the central bank released, in fact, part of the reserve funds, by reducing the mandatory reserve's significant resources to the business banks that they needed in agreement with the Government, and then by means of the HBOR, to place towards Croatian entrepreneurs who at that time were inaccessible to access practically any lending. It was those models A, B and C. And since banks were then getting those funds at the central bank I mean somewhere around 0.25% interest so it was logical ok you give those funds at 1%, HBOR let them give a minimum interest rate and first loans, that's what I was talking about last week, they were at some rate of 4.20, 4.21. Unfortunately, however, when you look at very little credit is shared due to the credit inability of Croatian entrepreneurs. It was 2010, today it's a very similar situation. So today because of the balance sheet structure of our companies, they unfortunately go according to some market criteria set by business banks are unable to raise credit. And instead of fighting here in one way or another, let's go together, so both banks and central banks and the Government of the Republic of Croatia come up with some model that will simply be a guarantee or something that for quality projects these companies can get loans. Because ultimately and the effectiveness of withdrawing funds from the EU fund will depend on how much you will be able to reach your own component. So if we had talked about it today, if we had talked about what happened to the Swiss people and why it happened, then this debate would have been in the context of us wanting to help Croatian citizens and that we want to help Croatian entrepreneurs. And in the end, it would probably give rise to the conclusion that we have to go to certain legal changes. But no, it's important to us whether the report is being adopted, whether it's being taken into consideration, whether it's like this, whether it's like that. These are ultimately irrelevant things. In my opinion, it is crucial that after these discussions last week and this week, the idea of whether or not we should change the CNB Act in what context. Is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, its task, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Economy, Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Entrepreneurship... with business banks and see how and in what context this high liquidity they have can refer to Croatian economies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, if we were to discuss it that way, then perhaps the Croatian citizens would give us a round of applause. But since we are not discussing it in such a way, but the debates are simply being led by something and no one is clear to whom, Croatian citizens will not clap to us and Croatian businessmen will send us a clear message that nothing has changed. Because look, if we don't change the laws, we can't help them. And we had through HBOR and passed the government and those past governments a series of programs where the interest rate was subsidized. However, let us take a realistic look at how much of these loans have been used and what is the effect of all this together. So we lost 200,000 jobs in the crisis and they just don't exist anymore. So you look, we're talking about growth in industrial production yesterday and we're also talking about a decline in employment at the annual level. And then what is it? Great productivity has grown by so much and so much. Well, isn't it logical if you have an increase in industrial production that should include an increase in employment in the sector? These are the topics that we need to discuss here because we are not all experts in monetary policy but topics that are interested in Croatian citizens and the topics to which the governor can then answer us in a very plastic way that can be done. This all that's been discussed today is a dog story, a story that won't lead to a change of the CNB Act. At the end of the day, a more significant amendment to the Law on the Croatian National Bank at the time of the negotiations for entry into the European Union was proposed by me as minister. And one of the key articles was that the CNB submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament and was adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, we are from Brussels, I don't understand what reason it was, but that's how we got the red light, and we haven't changed that article to look and say, as we read today, in article 62, we didn't get the green light to change that law. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the information for the first half-year 2015, today we have facts and that Croatia has been on the verge of corrective measures, clearly says that certain reforms and certain things have simply not happened as well as the growth of industrial production in the first month are due to some environment that draws us. And if we want to change things then let's change the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4448	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4449	Thank you very much, Mr. Shuker. In your debate, you mentioned more than one thing, but you also mentioned that the laws should be amended. I agree with you, perhaps you should amend the CNB Act, perhaps you should correct some other things as you have said in the Official Law, etc. But we didn't hear any of what you wanted. Well, you're the position. Why don't you suggest? Why didn't you tell this speaker what you would change, what is essential, what should be changed, etc.? Finally, because there are no such proposals we come to this debate, is receiving knowledge or voting or is the report accepted? Because there is no substance, we have nothing to suggest and discuss with regard to what the government is proposing or not proposing. I'd just remind you one thing, you were very active and I remember it just as well when you were talking about getting the CNB. So change the law, for example, that every year, here, if I remember correctly in 2014. 2.7 billion kunas to win the CNB, you asked that part of it be rerouted to help the citizens with the Swiss. So change the CNB Act, suggest. Now you're in a position to do it. We can't argue that now that you're in a position you're dealing with whether or not you're going to interpret the message from the Parliament to the public. So now your job as the head of the HDZ Club is to prevent a negative message that would trigger a vote on acceptance or non-acceptance of the CNB report. Which is why you are defending representatives in the Croatian Parliament to vote on the CNB report. That's your message that's in charge of this debate, from this pay phone. We want to vote on the CNB report because it is a clear message whether we are satisfied with the CNB or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4450	My colleague Maras, you're sorry for the expression "funny man." Well, you raised your hand not to have any objections to the CNB reports. I wasn't even talking about the CNB report here. This is about information, and you were with me on the Finance Committee where you voted together to keep the information informed. So that's what we're talking about. And now you can look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, etc. The second thing here is a report for a certain period. And I was talking about what context the debate was supposed to go into. I sincerely hope that the government will make certain proposals and amendments to the law, but this is a matter primarily of the executive authorities, not legislative authorities. But I'm saying, it's not good to say one thing, so say it like this and mention some things that just don't stand. I also mentioned here, among other things, the European Commission's report on removing macroeconomic and economic and macroeconomic imbalances where the problem of Swiss is clearly mentioned. What he'll turn out to be, etc. You probably don't know that either. But if we want to change that the CNB works differently then we need to change the laws. Yeah, a colleague of Maras's about getting the CNB to. I, as finance minister, did not have much use for that gain, while, for example, the profit of the CNB over the past four years as regards the state budget was quite generous even though I think it should be even more generous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4451	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4452	Thank you very much. Articles 237 and 238. So, a colleague of yours, Mr. President, must have responded to the remarks of his colleague Shucker, because in this House, we must not insult our fellow MPs. I could also say that my colleague Schuker was very funny and sad when he said in 2008 that there would be no crisis in Croatia. And now that he's turned his colleague Shucker into a protector of privileges in the CNB. Let the Croatian public hear it. Col. Shuker is the head protector of the CNB's benefits because he does not allow a vote, does not allow a vote on the adoption of the CNB report. And look at those gestures and Mr. Shucker's nervousness. Is this appropriate behavior of a representative in the Croatian Parliament? Please, Mr. Schucker, don't destroy the state property. Don't knock on the table, don't rip the tiles, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4453	Please ease the tone of the debate a little bit. This is not such an insult that we should raise the debate. Honorable representative, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4454	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. A colleague named Maras referred to Article 237. What he was talking about was 237 and 214. And 238, it's not what... Comrade Maras, when you raised your hand as a member of the government last year to accept the report without any objections, then you supported all these privileges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying short legs, short minds, what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4455	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4456	I beg you, Mr. Shucker has again hurt 238. Who am I to tell him now short-minded, big belly, no. You understand? We must not talk like that, we must not talk like that in the Croatian Parliament. So, please introduce order. Mr. Shuker is, Mr. Shucker is acting...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4457	Gentlemen, if you're going to ask each other for a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4458	Mr. Shucker acts like he's on the payroll and worse than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4459	Your discussions went beyond the usual tone in the Croatian Parliament. But if you're going to lift each other's injuries to the Rules of Procedure by 1 3:30, go ahead. Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4460	My colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Unlike a esteemed colleague, Maras, I will say that you have injured Ruler Article 238, at the time when a man who otherwise likes to insult, when there are no arguments it is a generally known thing about him also attacking colleagues, you should have given him a warning and taken away his word. You didn't do it, and that's why these injuries to the Rules of Procedure are being dragged in indefinitely. But I repeat, people who raise their hands for something say they're going to vote differently now and accuse someone else of that just saying it all about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4461	Thank you. I haven't told anyone, even though you've told each other twice about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and I haven't taken a word of it. It is simply some extreme measures that need to be very restrictively resorted to. Yeah, the debate went a little too far. But I'm glad you ended it with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. All right. Thank you. I see you've overcome some of these misunderstandings. Thank you very much. Next debate on behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4462	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is not the worst when the debate on the information of the CNB comes down to the length of the legs and the size of the abdominals that some MPs have and should not be too much of a problem. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Reformists took note of this information and registered with equal attention significant data relating to positive trends related to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. But we all know that these positive trends that are partly the result of monetary measures, partly the result of fiscal measures, are the primary result of changes in our wider environment and recovery of the economies of those countries that are our main economic partners. And that alone, when it comes to our economic policy, when it comes to our economic policy measures, unfortunately we still haven't found an adequate, sustainable, sustainable mechanism that we won't depend solely on external circumstances. The measures taken by the CNB aimed at the stability of the kuna exchange rate, aimed at price stability and aimed at bank liquidity as the main measures taken by the CNB and considered the basic tasks absolutely necessary, are certainly necessary and against them as objectives and functions of the CNB cannot be. The only question is whether they are enough for what Croatia needs right now? And Croatia right now needs to free up space and potential for economic recovery, economic growth and economic development. With this relationship between the CNB and the commercial banks on the one hand and the state on the other hand, this recovery, this growth and the end line, coming to the concept of the country's economic policy programme, I do not think it will be achieved. Don't let those who know better than me and my club resent me, except for one representative. But with this kind of relationship, it certainly won't be achieved. Because if that were possible then that recovery would have happened five and ten years ago and 15 years ago, but it didn't. And despite the fact that Governor Vujčić, both in this information and in his speech in the Assembly, shows greater sensitivity to the functioning of the CNB when it comes to the release of potential for economic growth and greater creation of space than in the case of example. The price stability or stability of the exchange rate will still not be enough and will not be enough in itself for what Croatia needs at the moment. So, as someone here has already said, my colleague Cacic in his replicas seems to me, a member of our club, I think, and my colleague Schuker was talking about it, and I need some kind of close cooperation between fiscal and monetary policy. Some kind of close cooperation between the state and the CNB is needed. He is right when he criticises the bank's actions and he is right and his colleague Cacic is right when he says what we have to criticise them they are so and if we give them space it will be even worse. But what we can do, what the state can do as a regulator, what the state can do as one who designs and defines the area of economic policy and measures of economic policy and economic policy objectives, I think we need to talk to the CNB, the governor and his deputies and assistants. It's more comforting and direct than it's ever been discussed. So the state no doubt has an obligation to the citizens who are blocked. The state undoubtedly has an obligation to those parts of the economy which are the largest part, which cannot provide guarantees for neither European funds nor can provide guarantees for commercial bank funds. Because they don't have that condition. The indicators of their business are simply that. Or they're being punished because they live in parts of an area that don't in itself already have those assumptions. Either they were punished for the circumstances of the business in which Croatia was located, and then with them for the past 10 years, or continuously located. And for that reason, it seems to us that it would be particularly important to see where we have the potential to go beyond these measures that the CNB takes, of which some colleagues want to be more prominent, to be stronger and the governor thinks they need to be more careful. It's not my time to judge how much stronger it takes, but it seems to me it's really necessary to see how to use the dead capital that the Republic of Croatia has and I'm going to list two. I've talked about one before during a debate in the Parliament. I'll start with the one I wasn't talking about, and that's state property, property. Currently dead capital that we hope is registered and listed and that we know in what state it is and that we know how to estimate its value. If not, colleagues and colleagues and respected Mr. Governor or Deputy Governor, Vice Governor, would it not be opportunistic to think that instead of just thinking about how to sell and the question of whether and under what circumstances it can be sold, it would turn into some kind of guarantee fund for all those whose commercial assets by their criteria cannot be secured, or cannot afford and give credit because they have too strict rules and the state will not be in debt by any additional means and burdening the budget and increasing its debts. My second question was asked by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Regional Development. If citizens' savings in commercial banks continue to grow, it is probably over two hundred billion kunas now. What's going on with that de facto rental dead capital that banks probably benefit from because they're going out with him on the money market. And what we have as a state. Is it possible to use that money for something else? Is it possible to convert it into an active capital that will bring new potential to the Republic of Croatia, its society and its economy? Is it possible to be the subject of talks between you and those responsible for fiscal and overall economic policy? That's two things that seem important to me. And finally, I would like to welcome you to last week's debate, I did not take part in the 2014 information or report, but I would like to welcome your call to representatives in the Croatian Parliament to discuss with you the monetary policy and all other aspects of economic policy, which touch directly or indirectly the consequences or effects or objectives of the monetary policy for which you are responsible. It would be extremely important if the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Regional Development had thematic sessions that some of these issues that may have heard here today were subject to serious and unlimited discussions with business, strict business rules and you have shown an interest in it, I welcome that interest. And I think that as MPs in the Assembly, we should accept it because it is an opportunity for our role since we are usually treated in public by useless consumers of state money who will confirm their justification by registering when they enter the Assembly Hall and in the Parliament building, which is immediately a humiliating thing to say to the Croatian Parliament. And whoever allowed it should know that I, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, who regularly executes my obligations refuse to do so. Let them do it to the Constitutional Court. Have them do that to the mayor and the mayor. Let them do it to everyone. And we allow that kind of self-indulgence instead of accepting a job that we objectively have a chance for. This relationship between the CNB and the state is a serious business. Although I am not the most invited to participate in it, I feel the importance of it. And it seems to me that our three relevant committees, the Committee on Finance and Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Regional Development could accept that. Perhaps this debate would really result in something more serious than we can have after today’s debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4463	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4464	I think that what was and what seemed most impressive to me and that no one put things so important that some things would not be repeated, and that is the relationship between the central bank, our Croatian National Bank, the relationship of a state that should certainly be narrower anyway. Her independence does not mean agreements and cooperation. A team more and a team before you say exactly how commercial banks were, many behaved as they wanted, just by the principle of profit because they acted, they acted. Why did the banks act like that? They acted that way because they could act that way. Their basic principle was our profit, your responsibility, our profits will be privatized and our responsibility socialized. Let the state do our best, we know it best, so when they fail, they knock on the doors of the state and the citizens lay on that new altar of the banking temple. These are the new temples of the 21st century. What the European Banking Federation is saying is what the answer is, which is the basis of the responsible banking system, i.e. the banking behaviour of the socially responsible investment partnership and networking, the economic aspects of the social responsibility of business, employment relations, business behaviour, environmental awareness, financial inclusion and has a whole range of other parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4465	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and you and I are in agreement, and I am sure most of us sitting in this House to our country that in order to have a true partnership with the Croatian National Bank is needed to strengthen our role as regulators and to strengthen, in particular, its role as initiators of economic policies and economic measures. And if we do that, and if we see that, then of course we'll have all the arguments and all the necessary power to talk, which is certainly not always going to be as simple as it was not, and in the case of francs as one small example, and these others could be huge and very significant and structural and far-reaching, and these were more or less palitative, which showed the necessity that there was a strong regulatory component in the country and a strong economic initiative in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4467	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4468	Your Honor, Mr. Pupovac, this wasn't really a replica of any kind or I'm thinking of replicating it. I think you've been very good at discussing this issue, and I really just want to support the cooperation policy that you're trying to advocate, because even though the CNB is an institution that is independent and self-supervised in its own nature, it doesn't mean that it has to act autistically and that it doesn't have to cooperate with ministries, business banks, and even with units of local, regional self-government in terms of designing all those measures and identifying all those potentials that our country would turn into a single country of economic security, into a stable, productive economy. Because as we can see from all these reports, we're actually making the biggest recovery in the services sector and in the tourism sector, and we know how much monoculture is, a danger to the future of a country. Here is another way and our appeal in front of the Most to really establish closer cooperation at all levels because it is the only guarantee for a stable economy and a stable future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4469	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4470	Dear colleague, I thank you for your replica and your comment. Just once again, I will underline the exceptional importance of the Croatian Parliament in this business. If we are here at plenary sessions just to receive, discuss and accept information and reports more or less, then our parliamentaryism is very poor. As much as we've been enriching him from time to time with something less funny or more funny stories about long legs and big bellies. But what is really a key thing, and what can serve here is an example of a debate with the Croatian National Bank on certain issues such as depression, such as euro-relatedness. The Mother's Committees are a place for it. Let's go get that and go get into that kind of debate. Let us invite experts to an extended, thematic session and discuss and deliver to the tide what is needed, and these are the views of the parent committees, that we do not only go out with our private opinions more or less competent in plenary discussions. And if possible, Mr Vice-President to you as Vice-President and Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, that would be the purpose of strengthening parliamentaryism, and that would also be to strengthen the role of the Parliament to which we are obliged under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4471	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Governor with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the beginning of the debate, I see that the debate of last week on the report of the CNB for 2014 continues today, and right at the beginning I would say that the entire atmosphere and public impression created does not contribute to either the CNB or the Croatian Parliament. Today here we are talking about whether we should adopt the report, vote, whether we just take note of it, and then the legitimate question is whether we as parliamentary representatives are essentially the CNB's report or the CNB's information can only be received by mail. Which is why we are at all having a debate about when we do not have the opportunity to express our position on what is inside, but also much wider than that, given that macro economic indicators and everything that has been happening in Croatia can be found in the statistical reports of the State Statistics Institute, we can find in reports from Croatian banks, other institutions of the Economic Institute in Zagreb. So we here are essentially discussing whether we're satisfied and how the CNB should work and whether it works and how we're going to set ourselves up. It is therefore declassified from some MPs to say that it is irrelevant whether this information will be taken into account or that it will be voted on because it reduces the role of both the Parliament and the representatives who discuss this information. As I said at the beginning and debate last week, I am not satisfied with how the CNB acted in 2015, although fellow Shucker, who is not presently in the hall, says that I am unserious because I accepted this report in the government a year ago, in the meantime, some of the things that my position on the CNB has changed deeply. This applies, of course, to the case of Swiss nationals, to the case, i.e. to the principle of providing greater liquidity to banks by the CNB in 2014 and 2015. Because when you look at what the European Central Bank is doing, then you wonder why our central bank measures do not follow such measures by the European Central Bank? When you see that the European Central Bank sharpens criminal interest and stimulates banks to place money on us, it does not happen. At our place, yes, it says interest rates are dropping. Just what interest rates are dropping? Interest rates are dropping on Croatian citizens' deposits. When we see the interest costs in this report, they fell by almost 10%, and the interest revenues fell by 2%. So, banks in Croatia are reducing interest rates on Croatian citizens' and businesses' deposits in Croatian banks, and on the other hand we have no credit activity. Could the CNB have dimmed the banks and encouraged them to place that money with additional reductions and criminal interest? Perhaps he could, perhaps we could, as did the governor of the Central European Bank, thus forcing the bank to place funds on the market. Of course, we didn't do that. We did, or the CNB unfortunately did nothing to activate the Croatian citizens in Croatian banks. And another thing that should be taken into account in the future, when you look at a small market of regulators is particularly interesting information about how many banks participate in the process, it is 33 banks, and how much it participates in certain activities related to lending and deposits. Did the CNB do anything over the past 10 years to a little bit liberalize that market instead of bringing it down to 2, 3, 4 or 5 of the largest banks. When credit increases were made possible, one who had a larger activity could place more loans each year. The small banks were totally in a position of subjugation. And therefore, it may also be easier for the CNB to regulate 5 or 7 of the largest banks and thus manage 90% of the market easier and these 30 or 25 smaller banks have collected crumbs. They may allow us to have more favourable loans if competition in this sense is greater and the CNB would encourage small banks and enable them to work simpler and cheaper. Not to mention the cost of operating a bank. So the small banks are actually in Croatia more and more falling each day. So a few of them have closed their doors in the last year. That's also CNB policy. In the end, we will be reduced to 5 large banks that will be easily controlled and that will read all the creams in the Republic of Croatia. Again, I'm not accusing you of banks because they do what they're allowed to do. The CNB is here to control things. Also, about the profits, I'm sorry that we're listening to stories about profits from HDZ when they're in opposition and now suddenly they're quiet. I can make it possible for the amendments to the CNB Act to partially return that profits through certain ones, so I would say perhaps through the budget to Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses. What I particularly want to point out is that Croatia is on the way up, industrial production is growing 9%, GDP is growing in 2015. It is expected somewhere it means below 2%. In 2016 this growth will be over 2% and we will not be able to continue such quality economic growth unless there are more active roles of the CNB in reducing I would say interest rates on the market... This is also seen from the report of the first half of 2015 that it simply falls credit to our entrepreneurs. [[You don't understand.]] All efforts that would have to be directed as a state but also by the CNB to reduce these interest rates, to try to activate the capital that stands in Croatian banks. So even though I said this is the information we got here is gonna have to lead a little bit wider. Of course it will always be interesting in the debate and how if you are not satisfied with the results and activities of the CNB then usually in the debate, questions and representations and costs and salaries and all that is related to the CNB because that result is good, that we are satisfied, that we think that all this was optimally done then probably no one would even mention this matter. I have experienced a great disappointment I would say when I saw last year the resistance of the CNB to help Croatian citizens with the Swiss franc, which is seen in the end that neither their budgets were exactly how much would be the cost of Croatian banks because that cost is all calculated below 6 billion kuna. They projected 8 and that way I'm going to say again here pressured the former government not to go to the Swiss franc's solution. And then the question arises whether half a million Croatian citizens, 120 thousand families, or whether it is important 5 or 7 Croatian banks as much as they had placed in Swiss francs that have made a large, large accumulation for the past 10 years anyway, and should not be overly concerned about what something will bring back to Croatian citizens in one year. We see that as far as we get, they'll probably continue this year as it was before 2015. So if there is a dilemma about whether we will take this into consideration or vote on the report I ask you all to consider that the Croatian Parliament is not being humiliated, the Croatian Parliament has the right to express its position on the CNBU. The independence of the CNB does not exclude the position of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian Parliament. No one can change the governor until his mandate expires and when he chooses a new one, but every year we can make it very clear that no matter what the report is about whether we are satisfied or not, we are satisfied with how the CNB worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4473	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4474	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It can be read from the documents submitted that the CNB considers that in the previous period it has fulfilled its first law set a goal, which is price stability. As we know during that period prices have fallen and there is a slight deflation as the CNB itself states that the movement of inflation in Croatia primarily depends on the trend of world prices, especially oil prices. The world's price developments have slowed significantly over the past few years due to the slow recovery of the global economy. But can we be satisfied with such a result and whether the CNB has indeed met its first goal with this mild deflation and what has been done with the other broadly defined objective of supporting the economic policy of the Government i.e. employment and growth. Personally, I don't think we can. I think that for the development of a country's economy, mildly controlled inflation is always encouraging. We haven't had her in a long time, and that's why it's my opinion that we can't be satisfied with this situation. Nor does such a kind of call it the stability of prices in the long term can be stimulating. I believe that one of the failures of the CNB over the past two decades is too little popularisation of the use of Croatian currency as a means of savings and credit. The truth is that the people of Kuna did not believe, did not learn to save in their own currency and the banks to borrow in the same. This is, of course, related to each other. In any event, the latest structural operations of the CNB aim to provide long-term sources of funding to Croatian banks in domestic currency, and these sources should be used to offer long-term kuna loans. This kind of effort certainly is welcome. I wonder why they were not done before and why the CNB in earlier years did not respond in this way to the invitation of individual experts and one part of the professional public, which is why it did not eventually happen in the first half of 2015. We welcome this move by the CNB, although it is not about high amounts, we believe that they can signal to Croatian citizens that they should be saved in Croatian currency and besides that they can help lower interest. Because given the situation in Croatia, the situation in the euro area and the whole of the European Union is difficult to believe in the recent entry of Croatia into the euro area, which has long been an excuse for greater efforts not to focus on strengthening the kuna as a means of savings. Secondly, the area I want to talk about are Croatian banks or banks in Croatia. Thanks to the conservative policies of the CNB, we can say and we know that Croatian banks are highly capitalised and able to resist external shocks. We could testify to that even now in the conversion of Swiss franc loans. And these difficulties are banks, we can say submitted without too many problems. On the other hand, for a number of reasons, the banks are becoming less profitable and in Croatia, and the owners of Croatian banks themselves are withdrawing funds and profits from Croatia. I'm interested in what instruments the CNB has to stop. Especially by warning news of problems in foreign banks, I mean Italian banks that are ultimately owners of one part of Croatian banks. This also largely contributes to the new European restructuring rules, which ultimately transfer the main loss to investors in business banks and appear to create specific problems in practice. As I said, this is especially the case with Italian banks and since they are the owners of some of the largest Croatian banks, I am interested in assessing the amount of banks in Croatia are protected from emerging problems in banks owned by Croatian banks. What does the CNB do and what can it do to prevent the spilling of the crisis on Croatian banks? Third, what I would like to look at is consumer protection. I believe the CNB has failed to fully protect consumers from the predatory role of business banks. However, to one part return to the 2014 report, there is only one page to protect consumers, a report drawn up on 160 pages. Now, as far as consumer protection is concerned, we could see specifically in the case of loans in Swiss francs. It is clear to me that the CNB has failed to act in the same way in protecting consumers as it protects prices and banks in the area. The role of the central bank is to be stricter and more determined that in this case the CNB missed out on me. We've had media announcements and announcements that these loans could be risky, but I think the Central Bank has much stronger tools to detimise business banks in approving such loans. It has much stronger tools besides informing Croatian citizens. I wonder if something similar could happen to Croatian citizens soon, especially if we are looking at the EURIBOR problem that the CNB has warned about. But I'm curious whether the CNB plans to use some other tools besides a public warning to possibly prevent a possible problem with euro loans. In my view, it is obvious that the CNB itself has committed its own hands in terms of monetary and exchange rate policies, perhaps in part by misjudged assessments of the recent entry into the euro area. The leading role in this area was also transferred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which must make a clear turn in fiscal policy by reducing deficits and coming on the way of deleveraging, and this will only be possible under the conditions of economic recovery and growth as expected in the next period. I expect the CNB to deal with its other objective in this area and ensure everything in order to make a necessary turn in economic policy indeed happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4475	Thank you. And the next debate, distinguished representative Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4476	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Governor. Well, I didn't really mean to call with the debate, but I do have a need to speak a few words, so two minutes was too short and related to cheap food and to your thesis that I can't agree that it's a good thing that food imports have contributed to the reduction of food prices because it's very clear that imports and the import lobby have destroyed the livestock and agricultural production of this country. And there's a lot of reasons why it's like that. So, this thesis is certainly not acceptable and certainly one of the reasons why food is exceptional, which is the price of food is extremely low and the high interest rate in agriculture that is between one and two percent. We have four, five and six. Furthermore, because of the high public interest of Vice-President of the Parliament, let me speak a few words about the current situation because we listened to RTL yesterday about preventing meat from being placed on the 40-year-old meat market. The other day was the confession of a worker of a Serbian meat industry about meat washing with acid that later goes to hot dogs. Will you now tell the governor why food prices fell and how neighbouring countries relate to food prices and why they protect domestic production in the long term? Croatia imports enormous quantities of food of questionable quality without any control. So, from the border to the stable on the control shelf, there's no one in any of the production stages, and there's no control of that meat anywhere. Domestic meat is at least controlled on slaughter. There's a so-called. self-control. We've been discussing it in this assembly for months. It's a little bit of a Ustasha and Partisans theme, the natives, and I'll tell you one of my professors in college 20 years ago, 25 told me don't let other people's kids eat what I wouldn't give my own. Isn't it a threat to national safety to the import of meat of questionable quality, not hats or scarves? I will not say bad quality, but questionable without declaration, without the date of first freezing, without a few months old or years old control and several times melted and frozen and that food cheap, governor with that cheap food of poor quality we feed our children. Such old meat is subsidized by the exporting country that sends and once again is subsidized, people are being disposed of with balasty and cargo. We need to make strong monitoring and control of imports of first-frost declaration and markings on the shelf, so that the policy says produced in Croatia, the law on Croatia or in the EU or Brazil. So no one is talking about banning imports, especially from the EU, because it's not imports, but it's an internal trade market. But strict surveillance certainly must be. The country, my governor, which drastically imports food like our 2.5 to 3 billion euros is not a state but a colony. Before entering the EU and now in 2012 we export 75% higher, June 85% higher, poultry 52%, cheeses 215%. The only eggs we had were self-sufficient, we made about 450 million eggs. Due to the unpreparedness of our producers and the EU adjustment, we imported 50 million in 2014 already in 2015. 100 million. The milk I'm not even talking about. It should be said here that Article 367 of domestic production protection due to excessive imports should be activated immediately. Dear friends in this House need strong political will and we must make a decision whether we have a national interest in protecting domestic production or whether we are interested in importing and importing lobby. So otherwise we can send a message from here to our manufacturers don't produce any more food. Yes, Mr. Governor's import reduced the price of food on the shelves because we're importing things, but at the same time he destroyed 100,000 jobs and destroyed domestic production. Each domestic pig produced is a multiplier times 4 while it was produced in June or cattle multiplier times 6 because of it living both agriculture and slaughterhouses and meat industry and traffic and trade. Everyone knows we can't produce a pig for 6 kunas or milk for 1 kuna. And it cannot and must not happen that the final manufacturer is only damaged because of the embargo on Russia. In the past year, Russia has made a strategy for its pigmeat production and has increased production by 11% within a year. All EU countries and our neighbours secretly or publicly subsidise domestic production. You in Austria can't perform a single pig right now. Do you know why? Because there must be a minimum of 80% of domestic food on the shelf. There are no official bans or grounds for non-exportation other than those they have. So, you need to change people's minds. The countries of our neighbours, Slovenia is paying for the storage of 35 euro cents. Trade chains in neighbouring countries condition domestic goods. Strategy, we don't have a strategy. Which is why I'm asking you all gentlemen MPs. If VAT is 13% of other 12 subsidized countries in tourism. Okay, let's subsidize still. But only for domestic production, not for cheap import products which are twice subsidized in the country by importers or exporters and have the host pay 25% of VAT on products imported from the country which are already two or three times subsidized. It's necessary to stop trends negative. The Russian example strategy is excellent. And dear friends in a way that the CNB is involved in this part and that we can make a strategy we can and must have self-sufficiency by 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4477	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4478	Well, colleagues and colleagues actually want to thank my colleagues Krizanic for finishing this debate and this farm exposure because it is precisely in agriculture that the CNB has done its part in the stability of relations and prices. My colleague Križanić started with numbers, I started with numbers, actually those numbers always depressed me. We started with the number of people who left, from the figure that speaks of the percentage of food imports in Croatia. I'd add one more number here, and that's the number of dairy producers in the field. So when we talk about 2012 there were as many as 68 thousand registered, there are now fewer than 6 grand. That number gets smaller every day. No one's talking about that number. If it was a role, which I think is the main role of the main bank, or the National Bank, stability of relations in our country, then I'm asking what they've done about it. I expected from today's report that the prices of milk or similar relations would also be touched, however, not a single word of it. I hope this is the end of the debate, but I hope it's not the end of the topic of agriculture, because the fact is that we've come to a collapse. In fact, a colleague, Lovrinovic, compared the situation very nicely in the state with the sinking Titanic. I'd say agriculture is right at the bottom of that ship and it's gonna be very hard to help her if we treat her like this and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4479	Thank you. And the next replica, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4480	Comrade Križanić, you are touching the eggs, the pigs and I don't know what, I don't think the governor of the National Bank is responsible for the eggs and pigs. The governor of the National Bank is responsible for the financial stability of the state, responsible for the Croatian state gold reserves. Several times it was encouraged here, and in public through the media there were signs that Croatia sold over 13 tons of gold in the period from 2001 to 2005. As far as I know, neither the Croatian National Assembly nor the Croatian public has received an answer, at whose order and at what cost. The price is known, but the price is one that I can safely say damaged the CNB in doing so, both the Croatian state and all Croatian states. And I think it's about time, here and probably the governor will talk to you from the final five minutes, if he can say anything about it, let him say something about it, no matter what the report from 2014, from the pre-Government period. But the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public must get the right, true answer why the Croatian state today does not even have a gram of gold reserves. And I think that we are one of the few countries in the world that has no gold reserves, all of which has been sold, disbursed and Croatian public and the Croatian National Assembly should get a clear and precise answer. If not today, then in the next report when the Governor submits 2015 if not before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4481	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4482	Your Honor, Representative, you're in charge of... A lot to add, these are two completely different topics, you're coming from Slavonia, I think you know that it's extremely important for people on the ground to live and live tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certain that gold is an important topic and that gold bars are something to say and refer to as the governor of the Croatian National Bank. However, I have referred to Mr. Governor's thesis that it is good that food imports have contributed to a reduction in food prices. So then I kept talking about everything else, and then I can tell you that people in the country are very and extremely important that at this point I don't know if you know that the price of pigs is 5 or 6 kuna, that Croatian agriculture is collapse. ... It's not the address. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Croatian National Bank is the creator of politics and agriculture. Therefore, the wrong address is certainly not a...... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4483	Thank you. We have exhausted all speakers in the debate and we now have the final address of the governor of the Croatian National Bank of Mr. Vujčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4484	Thank you very much. Thank you, Deputy President-in-Office of the Parliament, thank you to the honourable MPs and MPs for the debate, comments, criticisms, suggestions. I have carefully recorded the debate and will try to systematicize my answer so that those who are common let's say there were remarks or comments together and address. As for the very character of monetary policy from what I've caught, we have four types, and I would like to address the objection first, or what that monetary policy should do and not work, that is, to improve monetary policy. If there are more, you can tell me in the replica, I caught you four. It is one respected representative Lovrinovic says that the policy of targeted inflation should be led, the other also says it should be led by a depreciation policy, so that is part of what is called monetary reform. The monetary reform also has a third pillar, which the also respected representative proposes to abolish the currency clause. So I'd like to look back on those criticisms first. Then I'd like to say something about why the minimum reserve rate is now where it is, or whether it can be lower. And the fourth kind was why these long-term... Four years now why they didn't come sooner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, the policy of targeting inflation. For all those who know how monetary policy is run, it is not a secret that the inflation target regime that can be managed and in some countries is run by means of a flexible exchange rate policy. So this regime basically assumes a flexible exchange rate regime which is contrary to the current CNB policy. In other words, in such a monetary policy regime, the exchange rate per euro would no longer be used as an instrument that anchors inflation expectations and expectations of depositors or depositors on where the exchange rate will be according to the euro. That is, of course, in accordance with the proposal to depreciate the domestic currency. It used to be called devaluation, now let's say the milder requirements, says the gradual depreciation. That's three things to say first. If everyone expects it to be a central bank policy, if we were to announce that we are changing monetary policy and that it is going to be like that tomorrow, then everyone would expect that there will really be a depression. If everyone in Croatia began to expect this because the CNB, the governor announced so that they would implement it will be so they would all start moving their assets from kuna to euro. So in Yugoslavia, it was known that they would depreciate the currency, so everyone went from kuna to German brand. The only source of the euro in such circumstances when people start converting their kunas into the euro because it pays them more because the euro will be worth more to them than the kuna tomorrow are the CNB foreign reserves. So at this point, we should start selling foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia. In order for the foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia to fall, the rating of the Republic of Croatia would be because they are now assessed as you know the border sufficient, even insufficient by the IMF. How the ratings would fall would grow in interest rates. So this depreciation policy would ultimately lead to growth in interest rates. What would people want to do at that point? So everyone would like to turn their loans in euro into loans in kunas, into kuna loans. And why you'll have a euro loan if the governor says he'll lead the exchange rate depreciation policy provided for in that monetary reform. Once everyone started converting their loans from euro to kuna, loans would simply become more expensive and more difficult to access. The interest rates would go up again. What would banks do? So they said, well, if the governor announced it was a new CNB policy then we want to shorten our position in kuna. Banks would start selling kunas and buying euro. From who? Again from the CNB because only we with our foreign exchange reserves could at that time stand for sale, or defend the exchange rate so that there would be no real devaluation. And then again, the result of all this would eventually be the growth of interest rates. Let me give you a brief description of what it would mean, for example, the depreciation of the kuna of 10% by static analysis on the data for 2014. With unchanged other conditions, exporters of goods and services would receive 15.2 billion kuna more while for existing imports of goods and services all economic operators would have to pay 14 and a half billion kuna more. So here you have some kind of positive billion kuna, a billion and 300 million. Owners of foreign deposits including the central state would be nominally richer by 18.3 billion kuna. At the same time, the kuna foreign debt equivalent of all sectors would increase by €35.6 billion, while domestic debt in foreign currency and indexed foreign currency would increase by €25.3 billion. So the net effect of ten percent depreciation of the kuna would be deeply negative, 41.9 billion kuna. So basically 42 billion kunas, or 12.8% of GDP. And that is why I say that such a policy leads to recession, not to improvement for the Croatian economy and for Croatian citizens. Now, the third component of monetary reform when mentioned is the abolition of the currency clause on deposits and loans. I must say here that the currency clause is precisely the result of what we talked about and what I was talking about in my speech as a credit euroisation, i.e. deposit euroisation. So, if all deposits, or not all deposits, but most deposits in euro, then banks give credit in kunas, but they have a currency clause to protect those deposits. So tomorrow I can charge enough for the people who brought deposits to the bank to pay those deposits. Now, if you were legal, and that's all Parliament can do, it can't be the CNB, but if you decided to lift the currency clause, and you wouldn't cancel the foreign savings that would happen? Banks would suddenly have a huge foreign exchange position because they would have savings in the euro, loans in kunas. Now, there's nowhere to close that open foreign exchange position and they're completely at risk. Then interest rates would rise again, and loans would simply become less available. So you have an interest rate growth and a lower availability of credit in that case. If this is done in a way that also converts deposits into kunas in banks, then he wonders how it would be done. While you would sit here and press your vote for such a law, everyone would probably sit on their e-banking and transfer deposits abroad. We'd get a huge outflow of capital abroad. Even if it was done, it means canceling the currency clause. The majority of the debt of all domestic sectors would remain linked to the exchange rate movements. Why? Because a good part of the debt wastes on a clean foreign foreign debt, while only, so here's what I'm going to do. At the end of June 2015, the total domestic foreign debt of all sectors is 103 billion euros, with 81.3 billion or 78.7% in foreign currency or indexed to foreign currency. And if claims were lifted with a currency clause of credit institutions on the domestic market against all domestic sectors, including the central state, part of the total debt under the influence of the exchange rate would be reduced to still a significant 62.6 billion euros and would be 60.6% of the total debt. If the currency clause was further abolished and the credit institution was asked for the central state, then the exchange rate would affect 60 billion euros and 58.4% of the total debt, respectively. Here is so much about monetary reform and what monetary reform would do in Croatia. As far as the minimum reserve rate is concerned, she's said to be high. Yes, it is. She's tall, she's too tall. We think she's too tall. We're constantly reducing it just because it's high. We thus reduce the regulatory burden of banks after the crisis and this is one of the main sources of monetary policy expansion. But let's not forget that it's down from 30.5% to the current 12%. We'll continue to reduce it, but we can't suddenly reduce it, we can't go from 12 to 2 because we would create too much liquidity that at a certain point of uncertainty could lead to a speculative attack on our domestic currency again. But yeah, she's down from 30 and a half to 12 and she's gonna keep shrinking. Repo auctions, why now? There are several reasons why now. The current balance of payments surplus, the recovery of GDP growth, the increase in demand for kuna loans, or for the first time, we have a greater demand for kuna loans than for euro. And that's why now is the moment for this and at the same time the banks have less foreign debt than their funds abroad. So, we don't have the risk we had before that if we give them long-term assets that they're going to deleveraging, they're going to be capital from Croatia. Now they won't, so now we've chosen that moment because these things, four things have agreed that we can do it now. But then again, it's not a silver bullet, it won't solve the problem. At the first auction, the bank took 586 million kuna. And at that point, they had 11 billion kunas of excess liquidity... HNB. [[You don't understand.]] So we're giving it, we're going to keep going, but let's not expect miracles to happen if we don't solve the passing of that money to the economy. If we don't solve the structural problems of the Croatian economy, we don't make it easier to invest, easier to do business, if we don't solve the problems of bankruptcy procedures, efficiency and speed of the judiciary, and if we don't establish the guarantee scheme that I'm proposing not since yesterday, I've proposed it for years, so there's now at least 3.5.4 years to propose the introduction of this guarantee scheme that can suppress the lack of collateral and capital in our businesses that banks can start giving them re-credit after 2008. One criticism was that, and that one didn't make any sense to me, that we in our reports were saying that everything was fine. It's quite the opposite of what the report says. According to the report, it's not good and continuous in the latest CNB reports, it's constantly saying it's not good if I can read. And if you're looking at 2015, so the CNB was if anything then continuously pessimistic and not optimistic. We've raised our GDP growth assessment four times, forecasts. So every time we were pessimistic, not optimistic. And here I am on several occasions, although unsupported by any argument that the report says it's very good. No, exactly the opposite. We even wrote that it was worse than it was, so then we had to review ourselves continuously. As for some euroisation remarks and that the CNB is not working enough on euroisation or that it has even encouraged euroisation, it is completely incorrect. Namely, the moment the Croatian state became an independent level at the time of deutschemarkisation was over 90%. So, the deutschemarkisation that today was euroisation was created in Yugoslavia, began in 1965 by opening borders, allowing people to hold foreign exchange accounts and the long-term policy of instability of the domestic currency exchange rate, at that time the dinars throughout Yugoslavia, when people learned that domestic currency would lose every bit of value and decided to save in German marks. And we have finely entered our country with 94% savings in German brands. Therefore, it is slowly reduced to this level. But it doesn't go on as long as people aren't convinced that the course will remain stable. I keep saying it and I repeat it today in speech and I repeat it for the third time, if we tell them that the course of Croatian currency will be depreciated will not be saved in Croatian currency. Neither will you, nor will anyone. Well, what part of it isn't clear to me? We have implemented a whole series of measures to encourage economic recunation. The strongest and most efficient was that we asked banks to hold additional capital for lending in the foreign currency of those who did not have so. natural hetch, so they don't have income in that currency. So to give someone credit in the euro, they must have income in the euro. And if you gave him and there's no income in the euro we said if this is what the bank has to put in additional capital. Banks do not like to employ additional capital because it lowers their return to capital and then banks all seemed to detimise people to save in euro and to give as many kuna loans as possible. It was limited to success but we managed to reduce that euroisation somewhat, so we came from 80% to some 67%. There's been a crisis, and the poof in three months is back in the euro. Everything changed again because people were scared. As soon as the Croats are afraid to run into the euro. Once in a brand, today in the euro. And it's a psychological category. There's no monetary policy to change that. I'm telling you, at this point, we're making double the regulatory burden as the CNB of the euro in the banking system than the kuna, twice as much. And yet nothing, it doesn't help much. Now we're going slowly again to the recunation but it's going to be a slow process. That is why I said that I believe that if everything is okay with the euro we will enter the euro sooner than we will manage to eliminate that euroisation in Croatia. The minimum reserve rate by the way why was it so high? Because it was a basic instrument for sterilisation of capital inflows in Croatia. When German brands used to come to Croatia, what can the CNB do, since it buys it all and places the domestic currency, to sterilize this surplus liquidity, can it issue securities? But then he has to pay the interest rate on them. Or increase the minimum reserve rate? The fact that we didn't issue securities at which we had to pay the interest rate but did it with the minimum reserve rate lead to what? Until we could transfer what was mentioned again in the debate to the Ministry of Finance. In fact, for these interest rates that the bank would have to pay if we hadn't had such sterilization over the mandatory reserve rate, we'd have less profits and less could be paid to the finance ministry. So it was a good policy again, basically sterilization. There were remarks about small banks on several occasions in different ways. What I have to say is that small banks are regulated in exactly the same treatment as large banks. The small banks' plasma banks are in exactly the same regulatory treatment as large banks' placements. What's the problem is that the cost-income ratio is higher in small banks than in large banks. There's something called the economies of scale, the bigger you are, the easier you reduce the ratio of income and cost. And there are problems. And that's why in this situation when the total banking sector is in losses, when a small bank has an operating profit, it's supposed to look at reducing that cost income and it can be rounded up. And that rounding I think it's kind of like again and I've been saying it for years just doesn't happen much, we can't do it, the CNB can't do it, it's bank owners run the bank's policy, it's not run by the CNB, they have to make those decisions and make their banks profitable again. Not to say there are excellent small banks, very profitable today with a higher return on capital than large banks. So when you know how to set up a job like everywhere, you work well. Some examples have been instructed that Israel, Poland, has been reduced in euroisation. Poland no, she never really had a euroisation and Israel did it in a capital control situation. So they simply banned what we cannot because in the European Union we are deposits over a certain period in foreign currency. And then shekel was an apreciation for years. So shekel has a long-term trend of appreciation. Normally, when the Israelis see that the shekel is advocating to go to school and out of the dollar. Why would they be in a dollar if you see a continuous shekel appreciation rate? The report is also mentioned, and the European Central Bank's report in the European Parliament, just to clarify, I will no longer deal with this vote or not with the vote, but the European Central Bank submits a report to the European Parliament and answers questions. And the European Parliament does not adopt or reject the European Central Bank's report. They must answer questions, talk and the European Central Bank can adopt a resolution with concrete issues on monetary policy or financial stability. He can say we don't think I should be able to devalue the currency or anything, but these are concrete suggestions and remarks. But it's not accepting or refusing a report. As far as the CNB is concerned, far from being a state in the country, if it were a state in the country, it's simply that there are, not only in European rules, but also in Croatians before we did, meaning before we changed the CNB Act, we had established the independence of the CNB. It was then only further strengthened with some European Union requirements and a change in the Constitution prior to its entry into the European Union. However, we deliver financial reports to the Parliament, we submit financial reports to the Ministry of Finance every month, and that is an established practice. I'm coming here, I'm going to answer your questions if you want quarterly and not half-yearly or yearly. And I hope so, and I'm glad that we can continue the debate in the CNB, and we will now, given that there is an interest, and I'm very glad to run it as soon as there is an opportunity. So after this meeting of the CNB. The issue of CNB spending has been raised, which was incorrectly said. So the expenditures of the CNB in 2010 were 341.5 million kuna, 2014. 309 million kuna, 2015 we haven't sent yet, we don't have an audit report but are planned for 319 million kuna. So there's been a decline in CNB's expenditure, not expenditure growth. And this has been revised by 10% to 2014 and 8% by 2015 because of the depreciation of our bills. The question of that famous chef who was also in the paper was asked, it's kind of stupid for me to answer about that chef, but it's really totally ominous. That chef, we outsourced restaurant services, so these aren't our employees. We have a company that received restaurant services in a public tender and has 20 employees who work as waiters, cleaners, chefs. And it's the chef. He doesn't work for the CNB but works for this company that's outsourced services, and that allowed the CNB, among other things, to reduce spending so much because it's cheaper than having its own employees. As for the Raiffeisen savings bank, I explained it all last week, so the CNB simply doesn't have any legal foothold to oversee it. As far as we know there are 776 parties to these loans in payment and there was a commitment, it means for individuals to report each loan above 70,000 euros. Some did it, some didn't, but that's all we know about it and where we have a legal foothold. The CREDO Bank is mentioned. CREDO Bank was in the process of forced liquidation, which means that it had lost its licence and therefore was no longer allowed to provide services for which it was licensed, including the provision of payment traffic. This is why she was suspended from making payments in our payment systems that is HSVP and NKS, meaning a system of large payments and a small clearing system. According to the law, however, the liquidation does not mean the termination of the company or the operation had to be carried out. The tasks that came from FINA and entered the waiting order had to be done. And because the blockade had to be suspended so that the performances that were in line of waiting could pass. That's what the investigation was about, and she found that everything was fine. The Swiss francs were mentioned in a further debate. Last time I said I told you all about the Swiss francs. Trying to place the thesis that the CNB was in any way not on the citizens' side but the banks are absurd, incorrect and offensive. In fact, we were concerned about the interest of Croatian citizens, and very soon it will prove that what we were saying and what we talked about was in the interest of Croatian citizens, that we have proposed a solution or solutions that can best help those in charge of the Swiss franc, rather than burden the legal and financial risks of the Croatian budget, that is, all taxpayers. I can't say as I said more about it last time right now, but I think you'll know everything, or it's known and written in the end line is done. All our opinions are written to everyone. We have also sent a report to Parliament on ways to address the problem of the Swiss franc and from what we think is the best and most effective way. Far from that, we even suggested what was mentioned again in the debate to help those who were most vulnerable through the withdrawal of a personal loan guarantee, to raise people a personal guarantee of credit that they could return the keys to the apartment, but that they were no longer in debt. Because you now have a situation to finish your apartment, and you are still in debt, and these are people who are socially at risk, and they need help. And did we help them now? Can they repay the loan now? I'm not sure. Let 'em go, let's take that debt off their backs, with what's-his-name. no recurce by giving credit without basic guarantee. How to push the credit potential created by the CNB through excess liquidity into the economy? They repeat me always, meaning structural reform to improve the business climate where it will be easier to invest, where foreign investors in Croatia will be attracted and by ensuring this guarantee scheme. It's two fronts, or three to go on right now. And if we go further on them, we will make monetary policy more effective. The amendment of the CNB Act is always possible and it is on the Parliament to decide, the only question is first to ask what it wants to achieve. And when it is clear what is to be achieved, then it is known and in which direction it can go without knowing exactly what is to be achieved and yet it must be within those negotiations. I was the deputy chief negotiator who had to do it. Five years we've talked about this, it's not easy to believe me. I spent five years talking to Brussels and Frankfurt about it. They say, "Let's see what else there is." What again when small banks are mentioned, what small banks use most, they basically use our liquidity sources most if you're looking. So the most users at this point are repo operations of these half-per cent of the HNB interest rate are small banks. These four-year-old tails are again smaller banks, small and medium-sized banks, not the largest banks. So they profit most from the current character of monetary policy. If we're looking at non-regulatory rather than just who's using these funds. How many banks in Croatia are protected from the crisis in mother countries. Okay. Why? Because they're Croatian banks. That should be kept in mind. So Zagreb Bank is not, say, an Italian bank, it is a Croatian bank. It was founded in Croatia with capital in Croatia. She's a subsidist. She's not the office of the UNICREDIT. It can now turn into a business under European laws and we cannot prevent it. But that means that the deposits are then secured from the Italian state, not from the Croatian state. The Croatian state provides a deposit. So this should always be kept in mind when talking about whether something is going to turn from a subsidiary to a branch office. And they have very high capital adequateness. So, the capital adequateness of Croatian banks is much higher than the capital adequacy of their banks to mothers, and that gives them, it isolates them legally and capitalically from the problem of banks to mothers, with us always looking closely at what is happening there. If it is necessary to intervene, the financial stability of Croatia depends on it. Why the consumer? Here are maybe two more things why consumers EURIBOR this last thing was. [[/Downstairs: Time's up. If you still have a closing sentence.]] So, as far as the Swiss franc is concerned, I said it last time, so I won't be long. I was personally against it, but there weren't many people at the time, very little. No one saw it as a problem, so it wasn't much work. But to go to work, look like I said last time. Cigarettes say smoking hurts, but people smoke. The Austrians put their warnings on. Most credits in Swiss are in Austria. So that's the only thing that can be banned. You say there's no such thing and that's it, then there isn't, and everything else is market-inefficient. As for EURIBORA, the last thing I warned you about, but not only did we warn, we wrote again. Do not allow EURIBOR in credit agreements. So, but that doesn't work for the CNB, you're passing the laws, not us, we're suggesting don't, and now we have it inside. What can the CNB do now? Two things. There's one, and that's what we suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4485	Thank you. It's generous for two minutes, but I know you'd still like to talk, but there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4486	Let me finish. So what we're doing and we're going to propose and this government is changing the Consumer Credit Act for a more flexible margin management.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4487	You must try a more flexible consciousness time, thank you. Here's the replica, the esteemed representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4488	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Governor, you have now spoken in this shortened exposé of answers to questions from which it appears you are holding a fixed course. Okay, the prices are stable, and the economy is cramping. So, you've made a diagnosis, but therapy isn't good. On the one hand, you said that you have reduced your own maneuvering space because the country is highly euro-saved, that there is a huge savings in the euro and that you now have about 20% to 25% chance. On the other hand, you are correct, colleagues have accurately diagnosed that there is no so-called. collateral economic financing activities. You haven't said anything about how prices affect the functioning of the labour market. Because the macro basis for price stability is the functioning of the labour market, right? You didn't say anything about that. I'm a doctor of medicine and I'm not an economic expert but when I listen to you very carefully to me, it looks like we have a goal set and now we're thinking all the time about how we're going to get to that goal. And all the time we're in this state of thinking about how we're gonna get to the finish line. When I listen to you, that's what it looks like to me. Or we buy time for a term of office and do nothing at all. Because you said you reduced yourself to 25% of the room for maneuvers and then you're looking for restrictions in those parts to reduce in that series of measures to reduce the euroisation. That's what you called it, against euroisation. You said you suggested some regulators. Did I pass the time? [[Downstairs: Thank you.]] And there's a lot to ask him, but I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4489	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4490	As far as diagnosis is concerned, and as you say as a doctor, treatment first has one, don’t get it wrong, but they say doctors buy others time to natural causes. And what we've been doing, we've been buying time for governments to make structural reforms, right, to start the economy. This can also be done by monetary policy and it is not only the monetary policy of the CNB that does monetary policy and, let's say, the European Central Bank. However, if these reforms are not made monetary policy is powerless to increase productivity. What is the key to Croatia is productivity growth, to produce more per unit of work. And that can be done not by monetary policy but by all other policies. I always say these structural reforms are 100 and I'll be very happy if you come to the CNB so we can all have no time per minute to talk about the efficiency of the judiciary, the efficiency of the state administration, the health care at the end of the line, the way the health care works. You're sure you have the same idea how to improve the functioning of health care, agriculture. We've heard about agriculture, I haven't been able to touch it. I accidentally learned a lot about it in the negotiations as well as the deputy chief negotiator why our agriculture is inefficient, why we had a poor structure of subsidies there. So these are the things we need to talk about to improve them. If the CNB can do anything, we'll definitely do it. I'm just saying it's not a depression, it's not an end to the currency clause, it's not targeting inflation. If it's something else, if there's any concrete suggestion other than what we can do and we're not doing it, I'd be happy to answer why we're not doing it, but I'll say no right you could do it or we'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4491	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Governor, I'm glad you finally touched the Swiss. Because we've been witnessing this week in the Parliament that some want to replace the thesis. So, those who clapped to you yesterday, accepted your reports with admiration how wonderful, beautiful they are now suddenly found themselves in front of the fact that they're going to say that you have to tell the Croatian people that their political games and not accepting the ideas of those who know what they need to do are going to cost the state budget somewhere around 8 billion kuna. And that will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Also already in the budget this year will be reduced revenue from a tax on profits of some 500, 600 million kuna. However, it is very interesting that those who have passed the wrong laws are now transferring the ball to the other side to protect one’s interests. So I'm glad that in your final speeches you touched the Swiss questions because if it were going the way the profession imposed most of that conversion, not really conversions, but that agreement to say so, you'd fall on the burden of business banks, you'd be protected by those who are the most socially vulnerable. If that had happened then there wouldn't have been a political story and hope that someone would vote in the election because of this politics. Now that that hasn't happened, it's suddenly someone's fault for something someone did. And it's good that some of the topics have opened up here and it's good that you're here more often if you're just here with you, we're just polymizing about some things because the wrong step about monetary policy can get us there where we're hard to get back from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4493	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4494	Thank you very much. I'd just add that... All our quantifications, all our calculations turned out accurate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We said it was going to be a loss of 7 to 8 billion, at this point it's 7 billion and it's not final yet. We'll see what will be final depending on the acceptance of the conversion rate, which at this point, according to our latest data, was 93%. So that's true. And we didn't scare anyone, but we told them where they were going to be, and we calculated the effect on the budget, and we also said something about other aspects and risks. So far, I can't see anywhere in what we analyzed to be wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4495	Thank you. That concludes the debate. The vote will not be on this subject. We'll continue the session at 3:00. MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4496	We now have half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. The information is provided by the Croatian National Bank. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Finance Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It takes note of the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy." Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most votes, 99 votes in favour, 21 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion proposed by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4497	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we continue our afternoon work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On the agenda is the point - THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC, THE KINGDOM OF DENJAK, THE KINGDOM OF THE KINGDOM, THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF THE CROATIAN REPUBLIC, THE HELLEN REPUBLIC, THE KINGDOM OF THE PUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF THE CROATIA, THE REPUBLIC OF THE CROATIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIK, THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIK, THE KAL REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIK, THE KAL REPUBLIC, THE CAL REPUBLIC, THE KALKUBLIK, THE KALK, THE KALKS, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALKS, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALBUS, THE KALKPUBK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THE KALK, THEKALK , THEKALK , THEKALK , THEKALK , THEKALK , THEKALK , THEKALK , THEKALK , THEKALK , THE KALK The President of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of Croatia and the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of Croatia and the Republic ofLatvia , the Republic ofLatvia , the Republic ofLatvia , the Republic ofLithuania , the Great Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofMacedonia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofMacedonia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofMacedonia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofMacedonia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of No.Nine . I suggest that if none of you object to a unified opening and debate on these two final drafts of thelaw. If you agree, thank you very much. Then I would like to ask Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Maric for an opening statement under these two final draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. A few words about these two bill proposals. Therefore, the Treaty on a guarantee between the EU Member States and the European Investment Bank relating to loans from the European Investment Bank for Investment Projects in African, Caribbean and Pacific States, and to overseas countries and areas, together with the Agreement on the implementation of outstanding cash obligations between the EU Member States and the EIB, which regulates the procedures for payment and refund of money from the EIB Loan Guarantee Treaty, investment projects in African, Caribbean, Pacific countries, and in overseas countries and areas. They were signed by my predecessor, Boris Lalovac, on 27 January 2015. The Treaty and the Agreement are signed by the EIB on 29 July 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions of Article 18 The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, the Treaty on Guarantee and the Agreement is subject to the confirmation process by the Croatian Parliament. The conclusion of the Treaty on Guarantee and Obligation of the Republic of Croatia by the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. As regards a few details relating to the agreement itself, the guarantee relates to loans concluded from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020 and covers operations with public sector entities and political risks for private sector operations as defined by the contract itself. The total guarantee liabilities are limited to 75% of the total EIB loans with upper limits of EUR 2.5 billion for the operation in the Caribbean, African and Pacific countries and EUR 100 million for the operation in the overseas countries and areas. EU Member States undertake to participate as guarantees in proportion to all these shares in capital. In accordance with the provisions of the guarantee contract, the maximum share of the Republic of Croatia in the guarantee of the Member States may be 7 million 142 thousand 975 euros and 38 cents. The Agreement shall regulate procedures for payment and refund of money by means of a guarantee contract. By means of an agreement, Member States shall transfer to the EIB the management of claims on the basis of payments under the guarantee agreement. The guarantee and agreement contract has been effective since 1 January 2014 and becomes binding on all EU Member States at the same time as the final process of confirming these acts in the EU Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4499	Thank you. Two discussions on the final draft law were carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on this point. You've received reports. Do the board presidents want to present reports? If not then, we'll move on to the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's not very simple to have a debate on this point, but Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I'll do my best. The other day there was a foreign investor and a serious foreign company that has been present in Croatia for 15 years. They came to me for a meeting so the man asks me to listen here we are for 15 years do you know how to answer me which two resources are not important to you in Croatia? Well, now I think it's good to be self-critical but not in front of foreign guests, so I said no, you'll tell me. So I'm told by foreign investors we've concluded that two resources in Croatia are not important, time and money. Well, when you think about it a little bit, we might agree that so far we have proved that time and money are not too important to us. And I will try to apply that conclusion now specifically to this bill. So, as far as the time is concerned, the facts are as follows, the first fact is that December 17, 2014. The Government of the Republic of Croatia authorised Finance Minister Boris Lalovac to sign this guarantee agreement on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. So, the end of 2014. Then the guarantee contract was signed by the Croatian party on 27 January 2015. And we seem to be now 2016. So the logical question is whether the time really means nothing to us, so now here it's been a year, or on the other hand, we're wasting our time, and we're discussing what doesn't really make sense because obviously no one expects us to confirm this law. It's on one side. And as for the money for you who have not looked, we are talking about the total activity of the European Investment Bank of 2.6 billion euros, which sounds a lot but actually not for projects in the territory of African, Caribbean and Pacific states and overseas countries and areas. Why am I reading all this? Well, because there are actually a lot of markets and some interesting markets and for the Croatian economy. So given that fact, you really should ask the question logically and where are we? Where is our economy and our entrepreneurs? Now, even though the fact is that we are only 0.37% of the European Investment Bank in core capital, and therefore our... , it doesn't matter and 0.37% is something so then actually every Croatian government and not just economic diplomacy if we're going to call it that we should try to make sure that for those almost 8 million euros as much as ours... [[You don't understand.]] Something's going on in all those markets. [[You don't understand.]] So it would actually be quite interesting to hear from the former government if we did anything about it. So 8 million euros is our... 2.6 billion euros will be placed by the European Investment Bank on those markets. [[You don't understand.]] Some of these markets were particularly African were once real markets for the Croatian industry, so it would be really interesting to hear what our economic diplomacy and the overall state administration did to make that fact that Europeans invest or credit investments in these diverse countries will not tell the third world, but part of it and the third world has done. It's about money. And I will end up with just a few sentences about economic diplomacy, and that is to say that it is not given our size and strength as we know it will unfortunately be the Croatian state that will never be the world political power, so it is probably another reason for our diplomacy and the entire state administration to be in office primarily in the economy. So, we will unfortunately never be in a position to determine the world's capital flows of money or political processes, but then we should make our many diplomatic networks as well as the entire state administration available to the Croatian economy, above all I mean the private sector. I can personally testify to situations in which some Croatian companies were assisted by foreign market ambassadors and Croatian ambassadors refused to help. So as long as, starting from our Croatian Parliament, as long as the Croatian administration at all levels does not recognise its absolute responsibility for the Croatian private sector that it needs to be supported especially outside Croatia, it will not, although the last figures say it is not bad, exports and industrial production are growing, but we do not fool ourselves if the state would really stand as every serious state stands behind its private sector and especially industry and exporters so far we will not achieve economic growth rates, especially in those segments of the economy that employ many people. So, often mentioned in this assembly, tourism with full respect for tourism does not exist any serious economically successful country that rests exclusively on tourism. So the foundation of every successful economy in the world is industry. For this you need to have the awareness of the state administration that it is absolutely responsible for the prosperity of this industry in the domestic and ours is not great, so it is more important in foreign markets. And today I mentioned some who may be a little exotic to someone like the Pacific, African and similar states. However, in some of these markets, I know personally, the Croatian industry is active. There is therefore no reason not to engage with the support of the entire state administration and that the Croatian industry can also export to these markets. I'll stop right there, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4501	Thank you. No one signed up for the hearing anymore. Will it? No, there's no need. The next law that we,... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right. We have also brought together the opening presentation and debate on both Final Bill proposals that we will vote on when the conditions are met. I thank Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4502	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the execution of outstanding due monetary obligations between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Helen Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and the Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank, which regulate the procedures for payment and repayment of money from the Treaty on loans of the European Investment Bank for investment projects in African, Caribbean and Pacific States, the first and second and second countries, the P. No. Nine. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary authorities, I am voting that bill again so that I will not read it all over again. Please include yourself who's in favour of this proposal? The vote is over. 117 votes in, 1 abstention. I find that most of the votes were passed by the law in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4509	We're going to the next item on the agenda. And that is: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 23. Law on energy regulation. The motion for an act has been delivered to you in boxes. Here is a representative of the proposer on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Panenic. Would you like to give a brief explanation if he has a need? Please, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4510	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. We present a proposal for a Decision to relieve a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. As is known by Article 23(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on energy regulation has been established that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is managed by the Administrative Board, which has 5 members, one of which is the President of the Governing Council and one of its alternate members. The President and members of the Administrative Council elect and appoint the Croatian Parliament. For the reasons of the provisions provided for in Article 26(2) of the Law, the Croatian Parliament also relieves the duties of the President and also members of the Governing Council of HERA before the expiry of the period to which he was appointed. At a meeting held on 17 February 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the members of the Governing Council of HERA Zdeslav Matic on a personal request. That proposal for a decision with the corresponding documentation was delivered and here I propose on behalf of the Government that you resolve Zdeslav Matic as a member of the Governing Council of HERA, given that we have appointed him here, we have proposed him, appointed as the Assistant Minister of Energy at the Ministry of Economy. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4511	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This time I won't be so excited, so I'll just say that here's the HDZ club that accepts the decision and we support it, so since the gentleman resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4513	Thank you. And we have an individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to be a little longer than my clubmate for the simple reason I think that when in this High House any debate about energy and regulators is about her we need to talk about. Why? Because very often when it's political, we like to throw ourselves at each other that the excess of independent regulatory agencies is this one, and I'd rather, and I've already said that a few times, I've asked whether they're doing their job. So I'm not bringing in any... the appointment of a fellow assistant minister, so that it immediately moves beyond any context. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the question is whether these independent regulatory agencies that were founded are doing their job for why they were founded. Because when we started setting up these agencies, then and by some directives and acquis, we were told that if the agencies do this some kind of work that should protect those who provide services and Croatian citizens and the economy who buy these services, it is best to separate it into an independent regulatory agency and that it will work far better than if this agency is under a political cap, i.e. Under the minister's hat. And now look, the government passed the law, HERA did not object to it, and otherwise we were all aware of the fact that as far as the supply and sale of heat is concerned, above all in the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area, and later this proved to be a problem in Osijek and especially in Rijeka, it became a terrible problem, eventually the adoption of these laws fell on the back of Croatian citizens. So a wrongly passed law may ultimately be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the best intention, and extremely expensive. I can start with the citizens of Velika Gorica, colleagues from Rijeka can talk about what's going on in Rijeka. But what's crucial is someone's decision to buy and install these unfortunate regulators. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Divisions, I apologize. So it began, given that there was also a pre-election campaign, the mayoral race that would quickly fit into the concept to do so as soon as possible, that ultimately he wanted to say he wanted to help the citizens. However, with a time-out of a year and a half, we unfortunately have a situation that has gone in the opposite direction. So someone didn't ask the profession, and these are engineers of thermal engineering, to explain how some kind of system can give them results or can't produce results. And it can only produce results if it's a closed system, if you put one building of energy in place to have as little heat loss as possible and to know clearly how much heat has entered that building. However, citizens who are citizens, which is a logical thing to squeeze with high heating bills, bought these divisors, installed them, and then when the heating bills come to you, then you faint because it's simply a fact. And now, Mr. Minister, since this belongs to your portfolio, we want HERA to remain an independent regulatory body but that the independent regulatory body says that three years ago we unwarrantedly raised the price of electricity to Croatian citizens 25% under cover that HEP will be an investor and an investment swing generator in the Republic of Croatia. In the meantime, we had two great hydro years, which means that Croatia is the large amount of electricity to be produced in the cheapest possible way, which is via the hydro power plant. However, all of us and our fellow citizens are paying for electricity 25% higher. And when you look at it realistically, it's at an annual level somewhere almost 2 billion kuna, it's a very nice tax. Because if you pay for something you don't have to pay for, it's a parafiscal imposition. And I think HERA had to react there. If nothing else, she had to issue a certain statement, because for certain reasons she had given consent to an increase in electricity prices, then she also had to react to this. Another thing about colleagues and colleagues, when those of us who have gas heating at home, when we get a bill, we get an account in some kind of heat energy value there. At home, however, we all have that vura to measure the cube. And now, when you look at the average temperature in January 2015 and 2014 and compare to January 2013 when the average temperature was lower by some 15, 16 degrees. However, the average gas account for the first month is 15, 20% higher than it was in January 2013. And that's the job of an independent regulatory agency. So she just has to follow up on what's going on and she has to react because that's why we founded her, so we gave her independence, and that's why we founded her. So Minister, this isn't going to work for you so that I don't turn out to be the one to object to you, but it's my thinking and thinking about how HERA should work. And he probably didn't think he'd do anything wrong either, but it just happened. And we now, this HERA stays the way it is because some people are likely to change, and then someone will say they're some kind of political shifts. But I'm curious about what's going to happen to those divisors. Croatian citizens have already spent over 100 million kuna. Is it true that certain gentlemen who made the final proposal to the Minister for these divisions traveled around the world at the expense of someone else? And the third thing, now it's reportedly going to be installing some extras at the cost of kilowatts to finance renewable energy sources, and we've been financing 25, 30% higher electricity prices for three years without knowing why. However, as you buy money on the stock market because money is the same today on the stock market, and today in Croatia, the market and electricity and gas are liberalised, you buy gas. A thousand cc's of gas were EUR 35 for you two years ago on the world market. Today, the price of gas is EUR 13 on the world market. So when you look two times lower. Do we as citizens pay twice the price? We're not paying. And the price of electricity also depends on what kind of buyer you pay on the world market like that. And I think it's a suggestion, and that's why I called for the debate, Mr. Minister, that in the future, since we are together in most of Croatia's responsibility, that we need to work on these topics and that the citizens of Croatia feel differently, in a different way, thinking about something, that if someone can't function in some way because they haven't been restructured, so we're going to buy electricity from what our government, for example. Our government does not buy electricity from HEP, our government buys electricity from a Slovenian supplier. So why should we be so much patriots that we buy from someone, they pay us more. So let's start some other company in Croatia that'll sell it to us cheaper. And then plus that same hep that works so we let him sell us gas, because since two years ago HEP sold us, actually a year and a half ago HEP sold us gas. So these are three topics to think about, three topics when we talk about HERA, because when you talk about naming or solving the leaders of HERA, then you have to say what they should do. So, Mr. Minister, you take this debate as one of the suggestions that this HERA should be working on, and if we could put it together so that it doesn't turn out like you're some kind of political entity getting involved in their work, so we can make some kind of conclusion and order it from the Croatian Parliament and then it's not a political mix-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4515	Replications? The first replica of the distinguished representative Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, this is not a classic replica. It's a follow-up to your discussion on the parting point. Namely, my profession is one part technically more biologist, but when it was a question about these divisors, you have a housing block of one count of 10 apartments, for example. And now everybody pays about whether they're square or something and just people want to pay as much as they think they spend. It brings me back to my youth when we were living in one apartment block, one building had one 12 apartments and one waterbender. And everyone paid for the total mass that entered that unit of measurement, so in that cube as much as anyone spent, it wasn't important, it was important to the number of residents that they were. There were always dissatisfactions and everyone felt that he paid too much, that he spent less until the waterworks were installed in each apartment. There's simply heat energy technically may be difficult to regulate that question in such a way but maybe it's the divisions because they should divide something I might believe was a good intention and the intensity of the tenants. But what's crucial about these divisors is that I'm only interested in it, and I believe that the minister or the service can sort of check it out if a certain amount of heat has entered into one housing unit and after installing the divisors and the same mass of money accumulates on it then I don't see a problem in the divisors. But if there's a difference in that, then the divisions can, because that would make the divisions the ones that would potential more energy consumption, and that I think, by all laws and mechanics and physics and chemistry, just can't be. So I am for the regulatory agency to enter certain areas, but we need to talk about facts and facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4517	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4518	Comrade Batinić, I can agree with part of your replica, in fact, you are what you said continued. However, look if you offer citizens something if these units of local self-government support it to make it a final result is that citizens pay 20, 30, 40% more expensive heating, then it's a total failure. But then HERA must react as such. Well, that's her job, not only if someone's administratively instructing her to do something. So it must react to certain anomalies that occur. I'm not saying that someone had an evil intention but I respect it, I'm in favour of respecting every job. So, that this job does the profession and that technical profession should have made a technical proposal on how something can be done and then those who do the laws should make a law on how to get there. A lawyer can't suggest how a certain building will be built or something. But I'm saying obviously there weren't people involved in the profession that were supposed to do it, suggest it, etc. I think that's a key point of view because if you don't do the heat insulation or something gets lost. Well, anyone who put a five-inch Styrofoam on his family's house the next winter saw a decrease in heating. We've all seen it except for the ones we buy at the gas station, and we've got the same price, so I've got 20cm of Styrofoam installed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4519	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Mario Klobučić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to give Mr. Shucker a little replica and a message to one of the ministers. So, first of all, I'd like to give the minister the support on this subject that Mr. Shucker presented on the divisions. He, as far as I know, founded a body that would deal with this problem and explore what it was done in what way and why. And I'm just gonna look back on the gentleman in front of us for a little while. Okay, I won't, though. There's only Mr. Shuker. He had an exhibition about what Hera's doing, what Hera should do, etc. I've never heard anyone talk about an agency called CROTE, which is a Croatian energy market operator. So, obviously, we have two agencies that have a lot of similar areas of action, so I can only show my suspicion that maybe with one agency, the whole area could be covered. Well, here's the point, Mr. Shucker, if he can answer something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4521	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4522	I'm not in a position to answer, but I can take it from you. We can add this to Handa yet. All these three independent regulatory agencies regulate very specific areas and it is good that they are not connected because if you connect them, then you would get what is said in Zagreb as a cuspatiz. When you put a lot of vegetables and everything and then you get something, you can basically say that you ate both this and that, but it's not really that. That's why they're the three independent agencies. But I repeat, it's not a problem with the agencies, it's a problem with us who started them, whether we're satisfied, it's those reports that they're reporting here, whether we're satisfied with what they're doing. But I have only tried some topics here without the intention of blaming anyone but simply the result of that story is what it is and is paid by Croatian citizens. And I say this was a well-intentioned debate to help the minister in a certain way to pay attention to certain matters. And we, when we discuss these reports in 2015, when you look at some things inside, then you'll see that a lot of these things in those reports aren't touched at all. And then the question arises who is in charge of the supply of heat? Because look, for the delivery of HERA's thermal energy, she wasn't in charge at the first minute. Due to the dispute and bickering who allowed the price of electricity to be increased by the delivery of HEP heat in the city of Zagreb, etc., the government found a Solomonian solution to transfer the power from the Ministry of Economy to HER and then came the story with the divisors. So, perhaps HERA should have reacted at the time when the Law on the obligation to install the divisors even though it is to be understood that this obligation is under the European Union Directive until that date. But that doesn't have to mean that Europe has prescribed something for us, if we haven't technically prepared ourselves to let them know that we may be looking for a little longer deadline for that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4523	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4524	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you've opened up an important topic in your presentation, and that's the price of electricity. So we are one of the extremely rare countries of the European Union and if we compare ourselves to highly developed ones then we are certainly the only one in which the price of electricity for the economy and for the industry is greater than for the public. So I don't think there's even one product in Croatia, the more you buy or if you buy an extremely large amount of that product then pay a higher price. A higher price. So industry pays a higher price regardless of the amount you spend. Now, I'm not saying what I'm saying to cause a higher price of electricity for the public, though. Comrade Shuker, you mentioned that the price rose several years ago of electricity to see a huge boom in HEP and investment, they did not happen. So it is perfectly clear to all that the monopolitical position and pricelifting so far nowhere in the world has ever produced in Croatia the fruit of raising competitiveness, better services and lower prices for any user, or customer. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. However, I must draw attention and this is despite the fact that citizens rightly expect the cheaper price not only of electricity that for Croatian citizens industry, jobs and competitiveness and survival of the Croatian industry is even more important than electricity prices. So I am now just all of us here in the Croatian Parliament, first of all I call on the executive authority to think about how we will manage Croatian electricity in the future because it is important not only for the citizens but also for the Croatian industry and again for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4525	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milosevic, I remember a session of the government, I think it was 6th or 7th month of 2010 when HEP's request came in to raise the price of 25%. And then, of course, consent came from the Ministry of Economy, but we at the Ministry of Finance didn't give a positive opinion on it for one reason. I happened to be a week before that driving to Peru and along with the Bush mud and I saw huge amounts of water. It means that hydro-production was extremely high. And then the government wouldn't let HEP raise prices. The result of HEP at the end of the year was a billion-and-a-half kuna profits. And they asked for an increase in the price of 25%. So it was 2010 and in 2011 also remember how much it was winning. And when you look at 2012 when we are told that the price goes 25% and that the explanation was that HEP will be the biggest investor and that complete development, the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia will be based on the investment of large state-owned companies and then the price of 25%, the price of gas energy, gas 30%. However, no investment has occurred today. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay neatly monthly depending on the size of the apartment from 120 to some 200, 300 kuna account more. That means an average of 1,000 and something else a year. So count 3 years, 3000 kuna. So count so much and so many households. Here, in three years, six billion kunas took Croatian citizens out of their pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4527	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4528	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, I am very pleased that you have opened another topic on HERA, which is renewable energy sources. And that the directives of the European Union are also mentioned and that they are ultimately paying for it by citizens. Last week we had opportunities to see that there would be an increase in electricity prices for renewable energy sources. And I absolutely advocate renewable energy sources, but we need to see what it's about. Just to mention the wind power plants and it's good to know. The wind power plants of Croatia will help industry and the production of another country because everything that is being built into wind power plants is being built on in some other countries. With us even the installers are no longer our citizens, but the installers come from there and the foundations that have been recently concreteized with us are no longer concreteated with us, but prefabricated and coming. I absolutely agree with that. And I agree that we also respect and respect the European Union directives, but we should always put this in the Croatian context and in the context of what is happening in Croatia. So there must be a series of renewable energy sources that could be much more quality and much more useful in Croatia. Why don't we use the tide and the tide? We have tides and tides but not enough to produce electricity. And this is certainly a topic that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Environment and Nature will have to deal with in the future. These are common topics. So I'm glad you mentioned renewable energy sources here. That's relatively little to say, we've agreed to it, we're doing it, but it's just as ready for a reasonable, professional analysis and let's see what it will bring. Because in the end, they really pay for everything to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4529	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4530	Thank you very much, colleague Dark-Taritash. And honestly speaking to me when you signed up for the line I assumed you'd be discussing in this context. And I'm glad you discussed it like this because when we take a picture of ourselves in the European Union, let's see those vast fields of solar cells in Germany. But these cells weren't made in China, nowhere, they were made in Germany. So when you produce everything, you install it, so you give a subsidy to what's more expensive than it should be. But you closed a circle of several thousand, tens or so thousands of people were working and the effect on the growth of gross domestic product was definitely there. But when you're doing renewable energy sources, so what you're saying is that to the last grain of gravel you import everything from the outside, then the question is, how much is it worth to you to do? Well, after all, look at when on the world market the Chinese showed up with twice as cheap, and it can't be twice as cheap as 50% of the cheaper cells that were in Germany, you don't have any more field growth with those powerful solar sources of energy. So do we in Croatia. If I'm not mistaken, there was a Croatian company that worked the wind power plant. However, she was somewhat weaker than what was coming from outside, but perhaps we should all have conditioned that this company was working in cooperation with someone else. Then we'll have an effect. This way we'll have a negative pay balance. We will practically subsidize these renewable energy sources from the state budget. But I repeat, everywhere in the world, renewable energy sources at least rich try to engage their economy. And it's a closed circle. Just as we do when we talk about these powerful buildings, we should have hired from our styrofoam to our masters next and then that story would look a lot different. But when someone pushes some kind of law, and we're technically not prepared for the agencies that are founded because they don't react, we have the result we have, which is that they hit us in the pocket because no matter who, where and how we all end up paying more expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4531	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4532	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, I'm glad you've opened the question of these unfortunate divisors, I don't know how to call them otherwise. But it was also said that we introduced them under the European Union directive, which is not true. The European Union is not a directive for us, it has not obliged us to introduce divisors, but every Member State, based on a profitability study or efficiency analysis, could and should have just decided whether the divisors did or did not. We are normally bigger popes than popes, so we said that we need them right away, burdening Croatian citizens with additional costs of introducing and dividing and those other connections that they still need to be. And now we're getting into a situation where the minister has set up a commission to investigate what happened. By 31.12.2015, the bonds of the introduction of the divisors were buildings with more than 70 housing units. By 31.12.2016. these are buildings with 2 to 70 residential units. So, we have a problem where the commission has to do this efficiency study now, because if the commission doesn't do it now we won't again have an answer to the question whether the divisions are something that brings lower bills to citizens, or lower costs or divisions, they're not especially because we have one and another category of citizens who claim to pay more, or those who say they pay less. By 31.12. we have a new obligation, and if we don't solve the problem as soon as possible, we will have another problem, and the problem that will surely happen to us again will be an inequality, because we will conclude that the divisions have been made quickly, a bad decision, and then we will finally tell those divisions we no longer need. We have a category of people who are discriminatory compared to that other category of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4533	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Tyrelli, I'm glad that the divisions have brought us together, that we're discussing it equally and that we're thinking equally. Why? Because we're probably all scared in the subconscious of how we're gonna look people in the eye if we don't talk like this. But this is also our message, that in the future when we have such laws, we have to leave the position that we are users or one of our friends of what will be passed in that law and that we have to think differently. Europe will not punish us if we go into certain processes and if that is good, so let us be late for a year. But this is how we did it to get our hands on someone's nose and make laws and punish our citizens. So this is just for us... for in the future, you don't need to break with certain laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are a full member of the EU with certain specificities and because of these specificities we can fight for some things. However, when you have a tendency to change something, that you want to change something, no one alive will punish you for it. However, it will give you support to do so. However, how we are now going to get away with this whole story, because the company that is in the EU member state paid the way for those who wrote the law and made 100 million kuna traffic on the account of it. Those 100 million kunas were paid by our citizens and another few hundred million kunas paid for more expensive heating. So, the problem is that. And if we were a year late, nothing happened to us. This way someone can tell us to look at this Croatia, corruption, this, that etc. So we've done a series of damage to our country just because we've done something on our noses. But there's responsibility for us. When we discuss the laws we intend to policy, we see what this law really carries, so no matter who proposes it, if he's good, then he's good, if he's bad, then he's bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4535	Thank you. That's what we're done with the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're closing the debate for today. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 for the needs of national minorities. Thank you. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 15.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-09-0.u4536	The next proposal is for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 111 votes for, 1 abstention. I find that most votes have been decided by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning! Here we continue with our agenda as announced and scheduled. We've got an esteemed MP named Spika here to say something. Here you go.
