ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5668	Good morning, colleagues and fellow MPs! We're starting today's session. On the agenda, I propose a joint debate on the final draft law supplementing the State Border Control Act and the final draft law supplementing the Law on Defence I ask you, do you agree to conduct a united debate? Thank you. - Final draft law supplementing the State Border Control Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. - Final draft law supplementing the Defense Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading. The proposer is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on the same provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that both legislative proposals be discussed in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on both final drafts of the law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security whose reports you received at the session. The amendments to the final proposal for a law supplementing the State Border Control Act were submitted by legislator Peja Grbin and the Legislative Committee. In connection with the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Defence of Amendments, only MP Peja Grbin submitted. Does the representative of the proposer of the final draft law supplementing the State Border Control Act want to further explain the proposal? Mr. Minister Vlaho Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5669	Dear Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies, I welcome you very much. I keep here really important to recognize the next thing, so the police and the military are facing non-standard threats that I call it or the circumstances might be even better to say so that we have an impact on the need to protect the borders, as well as the need to provide security and humanitarian assistance to people who have found themselves here in the event of a migrant crisis. I stress that this bill will be used exceptionally, so the difficult word is exceptional, in exceptional circumstances beyond the capacity of the police, which as such are based on an analysis of the risks to internal security and threat assessments that could jeopardise border safety and the potential outbreak of the humanitarian crisis due to high pressure from migrants at the state borders. In providing support from the Armed Forces, the actions of the Armed Forces are based exclusively on police instructions. So we also have the police's instructions. That's two key things. To bring the problem a little closer, I also want to say something that is at this point and alive on this issue, let's say, for example, the Coast Guard, we can see specifically that the Coast Guard is part of the Armed Forces and is involved in the protection of the border. So, these additions to the State Border Control Act only guarantee the potential, i.e. to strengthen these potentials in the protection of the state border. At this point and in these circumstances, the police can do it entirely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5670	Thank you. And on behalf of the second proposer of the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Deputy Minister Tomislav Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished ladies of Parliament's attorney, the honourable parliamentary representatives. Only in a few sentences on the completion of the Defence Act, as the interior minister said was the purpose and purpose of this law. Therefore, this Law supplementing the Law on Defence essentially opens up the possibility that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are supporting the police in the protection of the state border in accordance with the Law on the Control of the State Border and all in order to eliminate the possible threat to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. As Mr. Minister said, there is, in essence, co-operation between the military and the police already in place to monitor the border at sea. So it's not about anything unnatural or anything that would be completely new. It should also be said that the decision to assist the military police is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the defence minister, with the previous consent of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. And what is also important and should be particularly stressed that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5672	Thank you. The replica was presented by distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, we thank you for your brief presentation and for saying that the decision to refer members of the Armed Forces to our borders will be made after an assessment or risk analysis. What would interest us as representatives in the Croatian Parliament is why the promoters i.e. The government did not present the amendments, i.e. the addition of these two laws to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which means representatives of the people of the analysis on the basis of which these amendments are being adopted. So we appreciate the fact that it's going to take place and make a risk assessment. But what we would be interested in is why MPs when they have to make a decision and vote on this, have not previously received an analysis based on which they decided to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5674	Thank you. Will you show yourself? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5675	Dear Representative, the military has already acted in the territory of the Republic of Croatia throughout a number of humanitarian activities. No analysis is required at this time. Why do I say that? Because we cannot predict circumstances where developments can develop. It is very important to bring the overall available potential into the form of usability. In this context, the army was brought into this context. Indeed, by judgment and security of the situation, we can react at a given time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5676	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5677	Thank you very much. So one of these important decisions giving the military executive powers, so this isn't about an emergency procedure. I really think that in the background it must have a much more serious analysis, which is why today's law is proposed. The prime minister said very pleased, as is the majority of Croatian citizens, that in a certain way the inflow of migrants, i.e. refugees through Croatia, or that the Balkan route is closed. Then that's more reason to ask why this law isn't, for example. delivered or proposed when nearly 600,000 refugees went through Croatia rather than now that these people are gone. I really don't doubt the good intentions of the promoter, I don't doubt that it wants to be provided in a certain way for a possible, certain possible situation, but I still believe that there must be an analysis or information that probably exists, probably also the prime minister has it, which is why we're even talking about this law today, which is why this law is proposed and why this law is proposed by an emergency procedure. As a parliamentary representative and I believe and all the other parliamentary deputies would just want that information to know whether or not they can or will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5678	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5679	Please recognize two moments in this situation under these circumstances. So it is very important to recognize that both the Croatian police and the Croatian military are acting very clearly defined at the moment. Any synergy of action will take place under exceptional circumstances. So key, the next key word is the extraordinary circumstances we've witnessed recently. We have a fact that military engagement has already been during this migrant crisis. So we are just putting on one formal opportunity to develop our potential towards protecting the Croatian border and humanitarian aid. Please understand the circumstances and I hope you all recognize that there are no other hidden intentions here. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5680	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5681	So it seems to me that with these flying amendments, two laws are trying to push through a concept that I think should be a very broad debate in this House, given that on committees we hear, and that's what we call this concept of Homeland Security. For such a thing, a broad consensus of all those present in the Croatian Parliament and a broad debate is needed. This is not introduced by the flying changes to the individual laws I hold that are not even constitutional, and why do I keep it? First, amendments to the Defence Act do not define what the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should do. The engagement of the Armed Forces is cumulatively defined with both the Constitution and the law, therefore it does not stand here in your changes that the Armed Forces should do with these amendments to the laws in the assistance or joint engagement with the police under the supervision of the Croatian state border. As we know, the military can't work with civilians, it can't legitimize them. Therefore, it is a completely different type of activity. Secondly, I think it is in collegiate with the Constitution for a simple reason because it is absolutely excluded from this Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is making decisions on the engagement of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. With these two amendments you have absolutely put the Croatian Parliament out of line in terms of debate and decision-making whatever they are about the engagement of the Armed Forces. And a third. Definitely the need of this kind or the announcement that something might happen at this point we don't really see that such a crisis is that we change these two laws by emergency procedure. After all, this House does not give God the kind of threat that you are announcing and cannot be taken away from the impression that someone might want to push through another concept of the Croatian Parliament can always make that kind of decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5682	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5683	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, what you said seems to you to be quite well said. So there's just no hidden intention. We want to have the potential available at this point to be able to use in case of a given need, and that's all. And please understand our proposal that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5684	Thank you. And the last replica of Gordana Sobol's distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5685	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here I have a united discussion of two bill proposals. They are said to be brought on the basis of a potential threat to safety and risk assessment and analysis. We didn't get a risk analysis here in the Croatian Parliament. We haven't even received it on the committees responsible, on the Defence Committee and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. What is proposed, with such a brief explanation, is that we raise our hands here and give the president, or the prime minister, the opportunity to send the army to the border tomorrow is below each level. Three sentences, one amendment, and one amendment to the other. You're saying we just don't seem to have any hidden intentions. Dear Ministers and I feel the same way that you're just talking about possible future threats to national security. That's how it works out. It seems to you, the presidents seem, to the Prime Minister, I don't know who it seems that there might be some possible threat to national security, and now we here need to raise our hand to the laws that allow the narrowest, narrowest circle of people to make tomorrow's decision for the Croatian Armed Forces to reach the borders. And I ask how? With what? Do we want tanks? Shall we use the guns in our hand? And you yourself said yesterday in a committee debate, including today that the police are doing their tasks very successfully. Then why these changes? Explain to us why, then, these changes, and I deeply protest that you were in no condition to be able to present your analysis and evaluations to even the committees in charge, so that we can discuss this in a measure. I protest that, from the final decision, the Croatian Parliament is completely excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5686	Thank you. It's obvious to the Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5687	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, as we have said in the opening statement, this is just about opening an opportunity. This does not mean that tomorrow the Croatian army will be at the border. She will be if it's necessary. That's the key. The decision to use the Armed Forces within the Republic of Croatia does not take place by the Croatian Parliament. It is known who makes decisions on the use of the Armed Forces within the Republic of Croatia. The second question is when members of the Armed Forces are sent to missions outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, that includes the Croatian Parliament, which makes the final decision at the end of the line, with the previous consent of the President of the Republic. I don't see what's in this issue. Why now should there be analyses if this proposal only opens up the possibility. Analysis will exist when it is necessary to decide whether the Armed Forces should assist the police or not to assist the police. So this is just opening up the possibility and at this point nothing more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5688	Thank you. We're moving on to the next section of the report from the board. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If we don't move on to the debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome and thank you for the opening statements by the Minister and the Deputy Minister, in particular for shortness and clarity. You sent us two messages, which I read, one that these solutions will be activated in exceptional situations, and the other that when proposing this law, you did not do an analysis of the need for these solutions to be put in place. That's what you said in answer to Mr. Pupovac's question. Now, the SDP MPs' club will not support the proposed amendments to the law for two reasons, for legal and political reasons. Legally because we believe you are not in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Politically, we believe that the political solution to the demands and challenges posed by the refugee crisis is not appropriate and that they send a false political message to our citizens, other countries and refugees themselves. The Constitution of the proposed measures, the legislator of the law, shall be called upon in the light of the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law of Article 7. The Constitution. And what does Article 7 say? The Constitution? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution establishes The constitution says: "The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia protect its sovereignty and independence and defend its territorial integrity." It's a fundamental constitutional role of the Armed Forces. That's what this people want from the Armed Forces. And the Armed Forces are for this, not some other task, equipped and trained. And that is why they are the strongest physical force in the country whose task is to deter all forces that could endanger our sovereignty and independence, and in case someone tries to counter such aggression. Because they are the strongest physical force in the state of their jurisdiction and the method of application are strictly regulated by the Constitution and the Defence Act and they are under constant parliamentary supervision. The same article also provides for cases where the Armed Forces can be used to assist other state bodies. These are the following cases: fire protection situation, when firepower is unable to cope with fire, rescue, surveillance and protection of the Republic of Croatia, the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea. None of these situations provide a constitutional basis for supplementing the law as proposed by the Government. In addition, the same Article also states that in the cases provided for in Articles 17 and 101. The Armed Forces Constitution can be used to assist the police and other state authorities if this requires the nature of the executioners. In the event of refugees passing through the Republic of Croatia, there has been no such nature for those who threaten the lives of our citizens. The possibility that there are terrorists among the refugees exists but sending the army to the border is not an answer to such a threat, nor will sending the army to the border prevent such a threat. Terrorism is addressed in a completely different way and by other mechanisms. No case has been reported in Croatia since the death of the population caused by the work of refugees. But unfortunately, along the Balkan route, so-called executions among refugees caused by exhaustion, sickness, or inadequateness of vessels used in the escape from war and torture. Therefore, with the exception of the cited Article 7 of the Assistance to the Police by the Armed Forces, the Constitution is limited to precisely specific cases in Articles 17 and 101. And that is, as I have stated, provided that such involvement of the Armed Forces requires the nature of the executioners we found to be gone. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution states that during a time of war or a direct threat to the independence of the state and the great natural disasters of certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution may be limited. Refugees who pass through the Republic of Croatia on their way to other European countries do not represent either the state of war, nor create a state of direct threat to the independence and unity of the state of Croatia, nor are they a major natural disaster that could limit individual freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution. More than 650 thousand people have been through Croatia since the start of the refugee crisis. The Croatian public is not aware whether any of these people, by means of certain activities, by doing or by not doing any other action, have endangered the independence and unity of our country or caused a major natural disaster. We can therefore justifiably consider it not. People flee from the Islamic state of the so-called, and do not intend to tear away part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia to establish an Islamic state, thereby jeopardising the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. The Constitution also requires that the scope of the restrictions must be appropriate to the nature of the execution, and for the consequence cannot have an inequality of persons according to race, skin color, sex, language, religion, national or social origin. The refugees do not represent the death to which the Constitution is referred and in the context of the inequality of the person mentioned in the Constitution should bear in mind the fact that refugees are predominantly coming from Muslim countries and Islamic religions. Discrimination by faith is forbidden by the Constitution. This article also requires that the Croatian Parliament declare to the two-thirds majority the restriction of freedom and rights guaranteed by the Constitution and what did not happen. Therefore, even this article cannot be a constitutional basis for the proposed addition of the Defence Act. This Regulation shall enter The constitution refers to a situation of war in which we are not, a situation of direct threat to independence, unity and the existence of the state, which is not the case, when the authorities of the state authorities have been prevented from regularly performing their constitutional duties, which has also never occurred in the event of a refugee crisis. This can be read both from former ministers and the Prime Minister's statements and from current ones. The Constitution therefore does not provide a constitutional basis for the proposed addition of the Defence Act either. Furthermore, the draft law provides that additional resources in the state budget are not necessary for the implementation of the law. Every armed forces engagement is costing. The cost of implementing this law is not provided for in the state budget we discussed yesterday. The costs of the use of human resources and material resources in the Armed Forces will certainly arise and are not foreseen by the armed forces' action plan. Therefore, I consider this assessment of the lack of cost of hiring the Armed Forces to help the police to be inconclusive and wrong. Stopping refugees and asylum seekers who flee from the death of an army at the border could be contrary to the obligations we have under the Conventions on the Rights of Refugees and asylum seekers. And that's why I proposed to the foreign minister at the joint session of the Committee on Foreign Policy and European Affairs to make such an analysis at the Foreign Ministry. So much for legal arguments. And now political, sending the army to the border is not an appropriate political solution to the demands and challenges posed before us by the refugee crisis and will not contribute to better crisis management in line with our legal and international obligations. The main policy issues here are the justification for supplementing the law, efficiency and added value of the crisis management law, a European solution as the proposed addition of the law fits into a common European solution, a political message sent to our citizens, other countries and refugees themselves. Justification, what does this law supplement want to achieve? He wants to send an army to the border to help the police do police work. What are these jobs that can be, where an army can help the police without using weapons? It's mostly logistics business. But logistics aid was offered both by volunteers and various associations for free. What did the government do to volunteers? She cut off a warm meal at the camp where refugees were taken care of, and she thanked them in that way for their help, i.e. refused further cooperation. And so far, the military has been providing logistical assistance to the police to take care of refugees and for which no law problems were needed, and no one has bothered to do so. The police themselves have enough personnel, 25 thousand police officers and enough material technical resources to manage the processes on the ground independently, monitor the border and control the crossing, as it has done so far. It is also supported by other governmental services that are authorized by the Constitution and by law. The only political explanation for why the military should be sent to help the police is either to send a message to refugees and migrants that they are not welcome and that the state is ready to use and force the military to deter them because the force available to the police is not strong enough. And we know there's a difference in force between the military and the police in the caliber and the kind of weaponry. And the training of soldiers and police officers is different, given the different tasks they have to perform. Or perhaps it is an explanation that the army at a small door, quietly, is empowered to exercise certain police powers throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This would mean a persuasive derogation of democracy and constitutional order in the state. We firmly and loudly say tanks in a time of peace and past the Constitution are not welcome on the streets of our cities. Armed forces should carry out their constitutional duty and be under constant parliamentary supervision and control. That's how it's done in democracy, that's how it's supposed to be done in Croatia. As a proponent of the law's supplementation, the government has completely deliberately or unwittingly failed to define the scope of the armed forces' engagement in police affairs. We don't expect anything like that from an expert government. Will the Armed Forces use all their resources from tanks to weapons of mass destruction to help the police? Will the assistance be provided only along the border line or throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia? Are we really gonna watch tanks on our streets? Will there be obstacles to such a thing in the future if the law is passed this way and does not happen? The involvement of the Armed Forces is not even time-limited but is only conditional on the assessment of the prime minister and interior minister. The military is in line with democratic standards and NATO rules under constant parliamentary supervision. But unlike the police, he's not under civilian supervision. If the military starts doing police work, who's going to oversee the case of overruled powers or violations of human rights? Will there be derogation of democratic standards and real states in the worst possible way by using military forces? Since ancient Rome, the army should not have destroyed its own democracy and taken over police affairs in a time of peace. And let us not forget that since the beginning of the crisis no crime has been recorded by more than 650 thousand refugees who have passed through our homeland. Neither was the safety of our citizens at risk or their property. When we talk about the justification of the proposed measure, we need to ask ourselves why it is proposed now. Why is the military now being sent to the border to help the police when the number of refugee entry has decreased significantly, and when police have proven themselves able to manage the crisis and the conditions of a significantly larger number of people entering the Republic of Croatia? We didn't get too much explanation for this question. The thing more smells like general government failure and copying some other countries in Eastern Europe. And for such a policy from Europe, the words of criticism and condemnation came to them. Nor did we in Croatia feel comfortable when we saw our NATO allies and European partners at the internal borders of the European Union sending their army to the border with our country. We did not see such behaviour as a good political message to Croatia. How will the crisis be managed more effectively if the military is involved? In particular, this issue is legitimately imposed on the conditions of reduced refugee arrival and proven police ability to monitor and control the border and ensure the safety of citizens and their property. The government gave us no answer to this question. The government keeps telling us that the solution to the refugee crisis is a European solution. We can agree with that, but the government has not told us what a European solution is, where negotiations have come and what a Croatian role is in this solution, and that is certainly not sending an army to our border. Sending the army to the border to help the police, the government suggests that the EU comes out with policy outlines that should lead to a reduction in refugee and migrants' in particular economically, at a time of intense negotiations with Turkey and strengthening Greek border control through Frontex. At the moment of strengthening EU and NATO engagements to break up criminal networks that illegally bring people to European soil. At a moment of increased diplomatic offensive to stabilise Syria through political negotiations. And instead of being a part of these joint efforts by the EU and NATO, we would send an army to our border and demonstrate force to the tormented people that escapes the horror of war. The previous government had clearly identified priorities that directed each of our operational decisions. It was the safety of the citizens and their property. The Republic of Croatia will not be a hot spot, humane treatment of refugees in accordance with international law and democratic values. We have advocated a common European solution in line with the values at which the EU rests, the values of democracy and human rights, non-discrimination and the rule of law, respect for its own rules that have instructed us to help people who escape from executions and respect for their rights contained in our legal denials. We believed that European values were a guideline in crisis management and that we should not give up on the first obstacle This would lose credibility both as Croatia and as the EU. [[/Downstairs: Thank you. Time.]] We advocated an agreement with Turkey Here, if I could just conclude once again just to say that the SDP will not support these proposals, we believe that Article 7. The constitution does not provide a legal basis for the proposed supplement. [[/Downstairs: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5690	Thank you. But you said in the beginning you wouldn't support it, in the first sentence you said. Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honorary representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, in your presentation as a former high-ranking official, you sent a message to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Croatian people must in essence fear their Croatian army as a professional soldier who was a 17-year-old soldier I am extremely proud of the Croatian Army, its humanity both in the Homeland War and after the Homeland War, which shows all its characteristics mainly in missions outside the Croatian state. These messages about tanks are absolutely false and misinformation and do not work on the unity of the Croatian people and complete people with national minorities, with everyone you send messages to, you mention Muslims here, you mention Islamic states. Absolutely Croatia was always human, and the Croatian soldier was always human. And when he fought against a much stronger enemy, he brought freedom to the Croatian people. And it's your great responsibility not to bring the National Strategy. And today it says in the National Strategy that we are not in NATO that was adopted in 2002, the National Defence Strategy. That's inconclusive. This is a serious situation where Croatian police, together with the resources of Croatian soldiers, want to help humanitarianly, because that's what we Croats have always been humane and humanitarian, and that's what we're going to do in this, so this change of law means we don't want to but in exceptional situations to help these resources. Because we know the Croatian Army doesn't have a reservation, it doesn't have a manual army, it means a mandatory manual army. And it's a shame not to use our resources and resources for humanitarian purposes to protect our borders. I should think of the Croatian people in a human way and of the Croatian army, not of scaring the Croatian people with the Croatian Army. [[Downstairs: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5692	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5693	Here, Mr. Chairman, the time is up, and nothing is now left to harm the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5694	I warned the MPs that the time had passed. Here's the deal. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5695	Dear Mr. Bulj, I fully agree with the characteristics of the Croatian Army and the Croatian soldiers you brought out. And my message from the pay phone wasn't the one you said. I do not frighten Croatian citizens with the Croatian Army, nor would I ever do so. The Croatian army is here because of Croatian citizens. What I warned from that pay phone is that there is no need to open the possibility of potential manipulation of the Croatian Army by a particular politician not today, perhaps tomorrow. We don't know when. Such opportunities should not be opened, in particular if such options are anti-constitutional. And in that analysis I carried out, it was clear that the additions proposed by the government were not based on the Constitution. The Croatian army is our pride, the Croatian soldier is our pride. We know what they did in establishing this country, they put themselves into its foundations. I respect that, you respect that. I believe everyone in this assembly respects that. It would not have occurred to me to qualify Croatia's army and Croatian soldiers in this way. But yes, I don't want what we put in the Constitution as the tasks of the Croatian military to be relatively or open to politicians or politicians of any kind to abuse the Croatian army and to have a legal foothold in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5696	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5697	Thank you. Rarely when we had the opportunity to make a confusing and dogmatic statement in 15 minutes to hear worked on completely false assumptions and not respecting the elemental facts. The migration crisis in Europe is not over. Europe will continue to be under pressure for years from immigrants who want to come to the most developed stable part of the world. And this is not about legitimate or legal routes that are agreed politically to enter Europe but about illegal entrances where, if they were not able to predict what happened before 650 thousand people went through Croatia or the government had no idea at least on TV at the time, you can see that these illegal routes when this Balkan route is closed or when it is closed may happen that there will be no more EU member of the EU that will be a buffer zone between Croatia for their entry into the EU. Therefore, who will stand at the borders and protect the borders from illegal EU entry or Croatia? The police can't do it with their powers, it's volunteers or I don't know who can't do it with their powers. And Croatia will then be the border, regardless of not being a Schengen border, will be the EU border. On the other hand, when the Croatian Army went to defend Europe's borders, then we all supported it. And if you're supposed to do that in Croatia, then that's the problem. I think it is a little bit of a feeling for European behaviour, for the awareness that Croatia is a member of the EU and NATO and that this is the way to behave, I think it would be necessary in this House as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5698	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5699	Your Honor, you said the refugee crisis wasn't over. Yeah, it's not. And you mentioned illegal routes and criminal organizations that bring people to EU soil. That's right. That's what I am if you listened carefully and said. Croatia should be more involved in joint efforts both by the EU and NATO to make such criminal networks impossible in its work. So I didn't say anything contrary to what you asked in your presentation. You're saying the police are unable to control the country's entry, especially illegal entry into the country. I've realized that the police have been doing it for many years since we've been an independent state and that it does it very successfully. It's got mechanisms, it's got people, it's got baths. Therefore, I do not see at this point or the need to change the law, especially as the minister said the analysis had not been carried out. If the analysis is conducted and presented to this Assembly, then we can discuss it. So I have to admit that I didn't understand until the end what you wanted to say and I have called for the fight against illegal organised crime groups that are bringing people to the space of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5700	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am not a constitutional legal expert, nor are you, a decision on whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not can only be brought by the Constitutional Court. But I answered for something else for your replica. This is not the first time this High House and the Croatian Parliament has given authority to a military organisation or military to help police control the border. I think you should know that in 2007 the Croatian Parliament passed the Coast Guard Act and the Coast Guard is a military organisation within the Croatian Navy, so part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It gave the Coast Guard the authority to assist the maritime police in controlling and controlling the Adriatic Sea border in both the territorial sea and the protected ecological fishing belt. And not only did we give this law to the military, because the Coast Guard is also part of the military, the authority to help the police, but we went one step further then, so we gave the Coast Guard the authority to assist port captains in implementing the naval code. So this is not the first time the Croatian Parliament has allowed the military or the Coast Guard to assist the police in controlling and controlling the border. Not only that, you know that all EU Member States, the Mediterranean countries, also have Coast Guards from Portugal to Greece, and you see what is happening in southern Italy where the Italian Coast Guard is fully doing the tasks of the Italian maritime police in the control of the border at sea. We know what's going on on Lampedoos, etc., etc. So I really don't see why we would bounce or bounce away from this European way of thinking about how and how we can control the border when we have already done it before and when the whole of Europe is doing it. Or do you think the marine police are one thing, and the land part of the police is the other, so that they should be in it different criteria?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5702	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5703	My dear colleague Bačić, I agree with what you said and what you said at no time contradicts what I said. So, you mentioned one of the things when the Armed Forces can according to the Constitution under Article 7. The Constitution engages. And that's what he says, I cited it as monitoring and protecting the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea. That's what it looks like. What I objected to is not coming out of the constitutional jurisdiction of the Armed Forces. That's what I was talking about. As for the opinion and my knowledge of the Constitution, yes, the Constitutional Court is the institution in the state that will give a competent measurement decision that we all must respect. But I don't think that we MPs in the House should be denied the right to state our own opinion or the opinion of our clubs on the constitutionality of a certain law or the basis of the constitutional law to which the proposer is called when he proposes a certain law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5704	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Dario Hrebak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5705	Dear counterpart Klisovic, I think it's time to start talking about things like this soberly without bringing emotion, without making politics, to finally be responsible. I've personally spent many years as an employee of the MUP before this job, to call it that. And if you want directly, I think the former ministry has done a good job with the migrant crisis thanks to the employees of this particular ministry. However, it was also felt in the air that given the number of people over 600,000 who had passed through our territory that it was hanging whether an additional 10, 15, or 20 thousand would bring down the entire system. So these people were at a loss of strength. What particularly disturbed me about your exposure is an unknown fact. So we have to distinguish and use professional terminology and distinguish groups of people who have passed through our area. You were talking about refugees all the time. I must remind you that we know refugees, that we know migrants, that we know asylum seekers, but we also know those people with extremely evil intentions. I realized this, this legal change as just one tool, a preventive tool that gives the Minister of the Interior an additional possibility for us to do everything we can to make sure that if we get an increase, as Professor said. A foreigner number of people who pass this territory to respond adequately. So I'm going to talk more about it in a debate on behalf of the club, but I'm asking you to calm down our passions, to talk soberly today without any emotion, and not to mention some sort of thing about tanks on the streets. I mean, let's be serious, let's be responsible, and make something constructive that never happens to us the kind of chaos that we've seen happening in some other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5706	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5707	Dear colleague, I'm glad you've confirmed that the police have done a good job so far since the very beginning of this crisis we've faced. And I think we agree on that. You said that sometimes the police ran out of people for certain, I guess, mainly logistics jobs that were tied to refugees. I, as I mentioned, had given such support to the police and no one had ever troubled such support, nor requested an amendment to the law in that sense to engage the Armed Forces without defining in which cases, in which way, with which capacities or equipment. People with evil intentions, yes, they should be stopped, I agree, you heard, I mentioned that it is possible that there are terrorists among the people passing through Croatia in that refugee wave. I didn't say that. But I also said that the army at the border will not stop them from entering our country. Others are mechanisms, if you've worked at the MUP, you know, other are instruments, another way to fight terrorism, not by sending the army to its own border. The army has no constitutional authority to prevent terrorists from entering the border with their presence. This is a much more complex problem that requires much more complex measures to combat terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5708	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5709	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague Klisovic, unfortunately with your debate, unnecessarily bring unrest and dramatize this topic. It's not about any desire of the people to act in the army, the army has its well-known hierarchy and governance structure. You read some constitutional powers of the army, you quoted constitutional articles. It is precisely because the army has a strict Constitution of power that does not require the approval of the Croatian Parliament for every action. The right is, in fact, the possibility and the need to act in the army exactly possible in the area from which I come. It is easy to discuss these legal solutions and suggestions from Zagreb and from the position of the Croatian Parliament. At just a few kilometers of the Dubrovnik area's narrow throat, we have two borders, the one with the Republika Srpska and Montenegro. I don't need you to even mention our experience in history and the dangers that have come to us from these limits. The application of this law to the total territory of the Republic of Croatia should therefore be taken into account. The comparison of logistics that the military provides in times of refugee crisis and those provided by volunteers has actually been deplaced. These are incomparable categories, and today volunteers are absolutely not downplayed by their ability to help refugees and all that they have done so far. So I ask you nicely not to unnecessarily politicise this important security issue because you and I and all representatives of the Croatian Parliament know well that without a solution to national security and safe environment in the Republic of Croatia there is neither our economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5710	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5711	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I care about the security of this country, the security of citizens, our national interests and national security I believe as much as you do. And I'm willing to invest everything and my entire life's work has been in this direction to ensure the safety of citizens and national security. So I don't see much of a problem here. But I also want Croatia to respect its own legal order and the international obligations it has made through international conventions, especially those relating to asylum and refugee rights. You are right, not for every military engagement in the Republic of Croatia the decision of the Croatian Parliament, I did not say that, I did not ask for it. I only asked that we not go without a clear analysis, counter-constitutional in extending the powers of the prime minister and minister to use the army to think beyond the cases in the Constitution. It was the only thing I turned my attention to here and asked for. Just to see if there was anything else, logistics. Yes, military logistics provided by the military and provided by volunteers cannot be compared. But if you've listened very carefully, I've said that so far the military has provided logistical support to the police as well as volunteers one plus one equal to two. I didn't compare them with who's better or better at it, and it could continue, and the police could still ask for logistics support from the military. No one slowed it down or slowed it down during the term of office of the former government. Why do we have to change the laws now and de facto without constitutional basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5712	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5713	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, MPs. If some have not noticed or do not know, Croatia is a member of a military alliance and an economic alliance and we have obligations to them. Spring is coming, can anyone safely say here if the Macedonian, Greek border is sealed that refugees will not find other routes, for example across the Black Sea. What's gonna happen? We are ready for another hundred thousand refugees, tens of thousands, who knows what will happen and what it will cost the Croatian state. The military also plays a role not only in operations, armed conflicts, etc. It's beyond that. And this law is just a proposal to engage in whatever necessary need. Secondly, we have a black hole between the Schengen border and the south wing of NATO where nothing is arranged. We have other threats, not just refugees. One more thing, refugees don't need a visa to land in Sarajevo and find their way back to these places and how many of these terrorist cells are now in BiH have been activated. And I am surprised by this false humanism, because I am convinced that Syrian refugees have more rights in Canada than Croatians from the diaspora here in Croatia who take three years to gain citizenship here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5714	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5715	Dear Mr. Glasnovic, you have pointed to a legitimate problem. Yeah, they could have changed routes. And what I am asking if you have listened carefully to my exposure that Croatia is more intensively and more engaged in the joint efforts and work of the EU and NATO to suppress and these criminal organisations that are working on it and those routes that they could invent. We won't be able to handle it ourselves. If someone comes to BiH, you know he can go to Sarajevo like you said. But he can also fly from Sarajevo to Zagreb. So what's the army waiting for him at the airport? So the possibilities are endless and therefore we need to be very careful and seriously approaching the management of this crisis and solving these problems. Organized groups are a big problem and Croatia cannot reach them alone. But in a community with NATO countries and in a community with EU countries, that's what I called for in my presentation. More active foreign policy. What have we got so far from our government colleagues? We do not know exactly what a European solution is, what are the obligations of Croatia, what exactly is Croatia in favour of? It is presented to us that one day when no person has entered Croatia, no refugees have made it a great success. But we are not told that the same days were three, three people were killed at the border between Macedonia and Greece, that there are 14000 patients where all are sick, frozen people who are stuck at one border. And it's a great success. Well, I'm not sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5716	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5717	Thank you very much. I listened carefully to your colleague Klisovic, but I can also tell your predecessors that you are not easily there in the SDP because I feel that you do not understand the achievements of the opposition. And all the time you're saying you're not gonna let anything happen. You and your permission don't depend on anything anymore, at least as much as I think it is. Here's my humble opinion. And I'll try and explain why you're contradictory. You say here the Croatian Parliament should make a decision. So the Croatian Parliament makes a decision through law, strategy, through some conclusion. We have the law today, and you say we won't because we don't like it. But you're asking the Croatian Parliament to make a decision. Well, the minister said, and it was very convincing, he convincingly said extremely in case of certain possibilities. But you don't like it. You're starting to see things. Here we hear from you tanks on the streets, some politicians' irresponsibility. Have we really come to doubt the people whom the people choose in this way that they will abuse their powers? Well, that's cheap demagogy, no political point. I really don't understand you. You say no analysis, no evaluation. Well, I remember the time you had the camera, the whole camera in your hands. They ask the interior minister how many refugees will pass through Croatia, are we ready for it. He says a thousand and a half. Then says the president, so she's already waiting for us at the door about 40 grand. They say they're kidding. To this day, 658000. What kind of analysis can you read, dear gentlemen? How many laws have we got here without any analysis that have been made claiming to open up the possibility of strategic investment, for this, for that, the possibility. Let's give the government a chance to rule, make decisions, but I guess with some responsibility these people have. Well, we won't play cheap politics, dear. And stop insinuating and say that you're human and we're all inhuman. [[Downstairs: Thank you.]] I don't feel any less human than all of you out there, and you prove me wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5718	Thank you, dear colleague, thank you. Here you can see that I've told Mr. Agent several times, but here's a few seconds past.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5719	It's not a couple of 20 seconds, but it's not that. The important thing is to keep an eye on you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5720	I said time's up after five or six seconds. Okay. All right. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5721	Thank you very much. A respected colleague to answer what you said would most require a tile to correct an incorrect quote. Because in your presentation, you accused me of something I didn't say. You're saying I allow or do not allow or the opposition allows or does not allow anything. No dear fellow, the Constitution allows or does not allow. And what did I do? Just pointed to articles of the Constitution that do not allow such a supplement to be accepted in this House of Commons. That's what it was about. You say I said we were human and you were inhuman. What did I say? Did I mention your name? Did I mention your client? How did you recognize yourself in that? I think the Croatian people are human and it has shown this for the last 25 years, especially the entire people. You're saying there's no analysis. So did you listen to the answer to the question asked by the esteemed professor representative of the Pupovac Minister? The minister said no analysis. So that's where you address your dissatisfaction, not mine. They'll be extremely well under exceptional circumstances. Yes, exceptional. Under what conditions, who, how, shall we ensure that the legal order functions in its entirety? Those high democratic values for which we have fought so long in our survival and our history of our people. We don't want to gamble that easy and so fast. And the entire history of the political human race is very, very filled with those who have abused the legal order. And they presented themselves to the people as his saviors, and the people even sometimes chose them. So, everything you said, I don't think it stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5722	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5723	Thank you. You have troubled your constitutionality, I quote: "The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia may, under the conditions provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, participate in international contracts and legislation in peace support operations, crisis response operations, humanitarian operations." What is this migrant crisis other than this? You've troubled the reason. Of course, there was no reason to engage the army when it was an unlimited and non-selective passage of refugees to Germany through Austria, but we are now facing possible illegal entry into Croatia and, of course, we need to prepare ourselves for that possibility. You said about this law being anti-Islamic. Isn't that how you get away with actually being refugees? Are all Syrians, Ethiopians possible tomorrow Nigerians, etc., etc. Muslims, aren't there even Christians among them? You have talked about a European solution, which means a European solution in a situation where the EU's official stance says there is no European solution without Turkey, given one role Turkey cannot unequivocally define at the time of the crisis itself, and not at this time, given certain internal and foreign policy strategic interests of the Republic of Turkey. And of course what if this wave, this so-called. The village of the people takes much more drastic intentions, what if sub-Saharan Africa, India, Pakistan, etc. is launched. who are still, unfortunately, too poor to be able to make up their mind or dare to pursue such actions as we see with the refugees of Syria, Iraq, etc.? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5724	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5725	Dear Mr Ljubic, these provisions of the Constitution which you have read stand, of course, in the Constitution, but they relate to the engagement of the Armed Forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. So, going into a peace operation, it's meant outside the Republic of Croatia, or to a charity. I support that. Our Armed Forces are in a series of peace or humanitarian operations outside our home country and I think it is a good contribution to Croatian state policy and foreign policy to international peace and stability. I encourage even in this crisis to be part of a common effort especially to break up these illegal networks that abuse this misery of these people and bring them to Europe. I didn't say that this proposal and the addition of the laws are anti-Islamic, in no word nor would I ever say it. What I said, I quoted an article in the Constitution that defends discrimination by faith, and I only said that refugees come mostly from Muslim countries, that Islamic religions are and that that fact should only be kept in mind. I didn't say they were supplemental of the anti-Islam law. Just that we have context and nothing more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5726	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You warned your colleague Klisovic on several occasions about the questionable constitutionality of this law, but there is another argument that is actually much stronger than what you have said and what has been said today in the debate of what I have warned the prime minister and both ministers, unfortunately I have not yet received an answer, and it is clear that here I am asking all of us here if citizens have the right to say what they think about the army at the border? Well, of course they do. But no one asked them. Therefore, what the Government is doing constitutes a violation of the Law on the right to access information is a conscious provision of the Law on the right to access information in Article 11 which prescribes the obligation to carry out consultations with the public concerned through a central national portal for 30 days. It can be extremely shortened, but it can never be completely avoided. According to the case-law of the Constitutional Court, which I also felt on my skin, in case someone filed a constitutional suit and the constitutional suit was announced by the Peace Studies Centre, this law will fall in the Constitutional Court, both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5728	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5729	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic, for this replica of yours. I think you're absolutely right. I have initially said that the army has the strongest physical force in the country and that it is therefore subject to the detailed regulation of its jurisdiction and authority by the Constitution and by law and is therefore under constant parliamentary supervision. But it's not under civil supervision like the police because they're different powers. And certainly if such important parameters, such important administrative organisations as the military are changing, which are defined by the Constitution require public debate, require the voice of the vox populia to say what people really think about such a reshuffling of jurisdiction within our constitutional order. And that's why I think you're right, and that's why I think it's another failure that the government has made that this serious change has not informed the public, has not conducted a debate with the interested and the general public, but has given us legal supplements in an urgent procedure. De facto exactly the opposite of what they would ask for, which would require high democratic standards in the democracies of the European type. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5730	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really didn't think these two preventive laws could set fire to tanks in Croatia and that they could be a threat to anyone. I believe this to me is blowing things up in this prevention that can happen. Mr. Klisovic certainly did not design himself to intimidate the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to tell the neighbours that we would come to the border with tanks. The humanitarian crisis and disaster that is currently happening in Greece with as you said 12 or 14 thousand immigrants are certainly not harmless and the question is where will our 1377km long land border of the Republic of Croatia be displayed. We don't know where the migrants will come from or which route. Since it is now the European border so long and longest in Europe that Croatia must preserve. These riots that took place in Greece clearly show that there is justification for such conduct and legislation. So I would ask that, without any tension, we put this as a prevention and bring it in because it really exists in the law established that in the cases provided for in Articles 17 and 101. The Armed Forces Constitution may, if it requires the nature of the executioners, be used to assist the police and other state bodies. The nature of the executioner is a stretching concept that may be and does not have to be, so let this be prepared if the nature of the executioner is too great.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5732	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5733	Dear Mr. Djakic, you don't believe that the foundation of this can set the tanks on fire, and I don't want to believe it. And I don't want the tanks to get on fire, I think they're going in any situation that isn't defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And that's where we hope and agree. With our great respect to the Croatian Army and its role. Neighbors, what kind of message we give the neighbor, you mentioned it in the replica, too. So remember, at least the way I felt when I saw soldiers at our borders to our friendly Member States of the European Union and NATO, it's not the point of an army in such alliances that we are in, and I think it was a bad political message. The same is the same as the political message, which I mentioned to our citizens in the sense that we can change the constitutional powers of the army, past the Constitution, with a parliamentary majority past the public debate mentioned by fellow Jovanovic, it is not a good message for our citizens. Equally, it is not a good message to the entire democratic world that the state does not adhere to its democratic standards and that such things can also work as refugees. What is the message to the refugees if you send an army to the street, or not to the street, but to the border? Whether the message to the refugees doesn't want you here, we don't want to give you the help and rights to which you are authorized by our legal order, national and international legal order, whose part we are, whose member we are. I think it's the political messages we send by adopting these amendments to the law. And I believe that the police, with the capacity they have, can do the job with the logistics support of the army they have received so far, can do the job with the joint patrolling of Croatian territorial waters that we have so far been able to do the job. If you can't let a minister have a similar analysis of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5734	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Damir Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5735	Dear Representative, Mr. Klisovic, I have fully understood your exposure and that is your right and your strategy, your position as you see that part of the situation and I have absolutely no intention of saying anything about it. However, I consider it one more time, let's not, at least I understood it, let's not scare anyone with our army here in the Croatian Parliament. Our army is a victorious army, you know that our army has the highest standards possible and that our army is democratically supervised, that our army is a proud member of NATO alliance and I see no reason for us to scare anyone with our army. This part of the preparation that our government is doing, this is what a smart country does. So the smart state is dealing with a strategy against the threats and risks it faces. A smart state investigates threats and risks, a smart state for preventive action, a smart state prepares. So I see this as only one preparation, I see it as a humanitarian action that our Croatia, mine, is safe. And this is a measure for me, a measure of dissuasion. If necessary, let us ensure our Croatia by making sure that the activities of the military are by law, by regulation and by clear procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5736	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5737	Dear Representative Krsticevic, I agree with you. The security of citizens, the security of the state as an absolute priority, and we said that it was one of the priorities of the past government in this crisis that led to any operational decision being made. We said, security, stability of the state and citizens, we're not a hot spot. Therefore, it was quite clear and... A refugee in a human way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not scaring the Croatian people with the Croatian Army. The Croatian army is a Croatian people and the Croatian people is a Croatian army, there is no fear. What I am warning you, let's not open the legal possibility that today or tomorrow some politician, some minister or prime minister, or president of the government, use such things for purposes that we do not want as citizens of this country. I am not accusing Minister Orepic or Prime Minister Oreskovic of doing so. No, we don't know what will come in the future and we don't want to open up such an opportunity and thus lower the democratic standard of this country for which we have fought hard, very long and bloody. You say smart country. I wish we were a smart country. First of all, if we were a smart country, we'd be funding more in science and education, and less perhaps in other things than we had a chance to see yesterday. On the other hand, any smart state wise leadership would support such a decision and a bill supplementing it with one detailed analysis of the situation and try to convince lawmakers that this is the best solution at this point for the country. We didn't get that analysis, and in response to the question of Pupovac, we heard she wasn't even made up. Therefore, how smart the state can make such an important, sensitive decision without making a political and legal analysis of the situation and of the security of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5738	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to say, I'm disappointed or unhappy with part of your debate. Let's call it the expert section. Tudjman, who is metricated about the expertise of this debate, said himself that such demagogy from this pay phone in 15 minutes did not hear. You have the right to say that this is against constitutional law. Branko Bacic said well, someone else will decide, not you, not us, all together here, not the government, but the Constitutional Court. Why I'm disappointed with part of your debate. Well, actually when I saw you talking on behalf of the club, then I, it was in my mind that you were the Deputy Foreign Minister, that you were the head of the Office of President Josipovic and from that position I thought your debate would be more moderate. To say today that you should be afraid of the basis of this law of exiting tanks to streets of cities in the Republic of Croatia I don't think it's good, that it's not even polite and that it's out of your mouth as a parliamentary representative and the one who behaves these duties that I mentioned should not come out. You still needed to be told in that debate, and since you are the promoter of that policy that accused your country of being an aggressor on Bosnia and Herzegovina, then when you said that we must fear the exit of tanks to the streets you still lacked to say that you are afraid of the exit of tanks to the streets and that the pipes are aimed at Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro and that you are afraid of Croatian aggression to neighbouring countries. And that's why I'm extremely dissatisfied, sad, actually because of that, I stress that part of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5740	Thank you. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5741	Your Honor, if you call demagogue a struggle for high democratic standards for which this people fought for quite a long time in their history, for the rule of law, for keeping their words, respecting their own legal order, then you can call me a demagogue. But you know, those who don't believe in it are called somehow different. I'm not in that group of people. The aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the pipes on Bosnia and Herzegovina, did you hear me say that? You heard, in 47 years of my life, that I ever said that? You accused me here of it without proof. What do we call it? Is there a political practice or a court practice and a name for such insinuations? Do you feel part of it? We call for correctness. Let us set our own example, setting our own example of this form of correctness that we want to manifest to ourselves. Don't do to anyone else what you don't want them to do to you. I didn't insult any of you or say that I would point the pipes against my people or neighbouring states. That's what I'm told, to me. No, I said not that tanks would be on the streets, but that with these amendments of the law, it would open up the possibility of once whoever was called and how irresponsible a politician would abuse those mechanisms. We put mechanisms in his hands. You know, mechanisms can't give it away as a mature democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5742	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Klisovic, you've been talking here about the reasons why such a law is passed. I might say there was another reason why a law like this was passed. But if that's the reason, then it's not good. In fact, I'll remind you that at a time when we were struggling with the migrant crisis, when we solved every day and a half 10,000 migrants, we solved them in the most humane way possible. No Croatian citizen has felt that so many migrants have passed through the Republic of Croatia, there has been no incident. At that moment both the president of the state and the then president of the opposition party called for an army at the borders, and if this law is a consequence it will be my opinion now that we are in power, then it is very bad, I could say on this subject and very dangerous behavior. On the other hand, I am surprised why Minister Orepic did not stand behind the Croatian police force because it has proved that 25 thousand police officers can hold order in Croatia very well. So, 650 thousand migrants who have passed through the Republic of Croatia have been so once again I will repeat that no incident in the Republic of Croatia has been, no citizen has felt that such a number has passed through the Republic of Croatia. And I don't know why you opened the space for someone else to get the chance to make decisions instead of you being the one who will continue to hold order with 25 thousand police officers at Croatian borders because it simply proved that the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian MUP can. Secondly, you know, our citizens have shown much greater responsibility when it comes to the migrant crisis and much greater sensitivity precisely because unfortunately, in the '90s, a part of our citizens went through what is now being done by migrants, they fled the war, they unfortunately fled from their burning houses and burned villages. I would hate for our exiles to bathe their children in pools at that time, as I now see it at border crossings in Greece where children bathe in pools of rainwater. So, very inhumane conditions. And at this point, we have proved to be the most humane country in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5744	Thank you. There's no need to answer that. Then we move on to the next line, the distinguished representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5745	Dear colleague Klisovic, you've set things up well, but some of you have failed to fix. For logistics aid and assistance in the event of natural or other disasters by the Croatian military, there is a law. There's a law unnecessary. You say all other uses of the Croatian Army are needed according to the Constitution of Croatian Parliament decisions. The Croatian Parliament may meet within a few hours for a regular or extraordinary session to decide on the dangers of the arrival of too many refugees or in the event of an uncontrollable situation. So because of refugees, this law is completely unnecessary. In your speech, you gave the impression, but you did not end up saying that this law should be observed in another context. At a time when the new government, but primarily HDZ, not MOST, is making all its efforts not in the reforms they promised but to control with a repressive apparatus and a blow to the media, so that the shift of Lozancic, to sweep the HRT, to abolish the Council for Electronic Media, to seek the removal of the Director of Police completely illegally this law should be seen in this light. The military, the Croatian Army will not and will not act independently. But the Croatian Army as well as any army in this world must obey the civilian rule. This law completely unnecessarily allows the Prime Minister or the Government to use the Croatian Army as a whole. We don't know why, and we don't know what analysis. So this law can be called a peaceful law on the preparation of a military coup.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5746	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5747	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you, as chairman of this session, in accordance with Article 238. You should have warned your colleague Stazic sharply. I understand his frequent rhetorical exhibition, but I think my colleague Stazic has gone a little too far. Everything has its limits, but I think this is really a far more fun thing to do with your rhetorical exhibition from this High House, and that's why you were obliged to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5748	Thank you. I agree with you, these words about trying a coup really don't have a place. The bill's proposals, you may doubt their constitutionality, there are mechanisms to check the constitutionality of the law, but the attempt of a coup through this final bill absolutely does not stand. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5749	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which speaks of the powers of the president of the parliament, "The duty of the president is to allow MPs to speak," not to arbitration what the MPs have said. That will be judged by the public who chose us. So stick to the Rules of Procedure, don't submit to Shucker's insinuations and suggestions because I have the right to say what I think of this bill. And in that you won't stop me, nor Shuker, you won't scare me even by the bill you won't scare me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5750	It is that certain legal texts cannot produce a coup, the very nature of the coup is that it takes place outside all normative arrangements, constitutional and legal. No normal normative rules apply to a coup. That's all it's about, not something else. But, please, let's lower our tensions. There's no need for a bill of law to speak in such categories. Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5751	Thank you very much. Let's get back from the coup and hit Mr. Shucker's Rules of Procedure on the law. You said a few things in your debate, primarily whether it is a European solution. How will the Croatian reputation that she has had so far be preserved? Are we thinking that by passing this law we might end up somewhere in European news, how will this affect our tourism? Is the government and Minister Orepic right when they propose a law without having a public debate or that they have asked our citizens, and is it possible that such legislation creates an impression of a state of emergency? I think that the Croatian state and Croatian police have done excellent work for the last year, 650 thousand people have certainly gone through our country and there is no need to raise tensions in this way and put Croatia from a security point of view in the first place. How will this affect our tourism, the feeling of people coming to Croatia, do they even want to have the opportunity to see tanks or armies at the borders tomorrow? But what I regret now is in focus and what I see is happening. I have a feeling that there's some way that there's a little bit of a safe trade here. We'll give you a Brkic and a Roman and you'll give us a Lozanci and an army. Because you see today in the media a debate over Lozancic where the Deputy Prime Minister says the prime minister will sign. So who's in charge of this government? Who gives orders and who has authority? Does he have Prime Minister Orrekovic or Vice President Karamarko? If Vice President Karamarko has it, why isn't he sitting here? I have the feeling that he's outdone himself as a black force and over Minister Orepic and trying to shift people in the police force, replace people in the security services, and in some way drive fear into the bones of MOST.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5752	Dear fellow, time is up and the topic is not, the agenda theme is not the one you're talking about. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5753	Dear President, in accordance with Article 235, I would ask Mr. Maras to stick to the subject. It is therefore determined that the representative may respond to the exposure only once and therefore to the underlying exposure. I don't see how Mr. Maras replicated Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5754	I also said that what was said at the end of the day had nothing to do with the subject of the agenda and just a few seconds before you raised your hand, it had nothing to do with the topic of the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5755	I'd also like to appeal to Article 238. Comrade Maras, good thing you didn't even see a tank up close in the war, so maybe if you went out now you wouldn't even know what it looked like. It's terrible that you, it's terrible that you're scaring the Croatian people, it's terrible that you're pulling back and talking about Lozancic and the things you're actually reading only from the media for good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5756	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5757	Article 33 again. Your Honor, this is not the way the session is conducted. You have an article 33 prescribed tax on how you must conduct a session. What he's doing, what you're letting your colleague Strenja-Linić do, this is, I'm sorry, this is inadmissible. Inadmissible. If you want to be, if you want to be so biased, then make it public. Publicly announce that we know what we're counting on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5758	My colleagues and colleagues, this debate was a mess at times, but until your words, the attempt of a coup was within the limits of a parliamentary debate. I must conclude the words "try the coup" are inappropriate for this assembly speaker in the context of the bill we are discussing. That's what this is about. Please do not use such difficult expressions in the debate. Unless they will be believed there will be no need for strong replicas and violations of the Rules of Procedure. Let's just calm down the tensions a little bit, please, and don't use any more of these roughest expressions that can be used. Thank you very much. ... My dear colleague, did you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5759	Thank you very much. Rules of Procedure 232, 235. Mrs. Strenja Linic insulted me because she says thank God you didn't see a tank in the war. I was Mrs Strenja-Linić at the time when I was 17. Will my child, who is 6 years old today, not have God name something in 10 years? As for anyone who sees what, I see that the Croatian public sees very well what you are doing and that is why your rating has fallen half since the election of Mrs Strenja-Linić. And just keep going. I'm trying to protect your minister and we're gonna back him up on what Karamarko's working on. But you're not helping him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5760	Thank you. I prayed and appealed not to use harsh expressions, insults, and to return to the final draft of the law. Please, please, dear colleague, it doesn't make any sense here we all will, all of you, Mr. Honorable colleague Shucker, don't continue the debate now. We just made a deal. Now we've agreed not to. Here, now my colleague Maras is going to have coffee and we're going to calm down. Come on, here. I suggest you, you can, you can do it together. Okay. Here, please, now we're hoping we've exhausted the negative tensions and we're going to the next replica. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5761	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Klisovic, therefore, you and most of the people who are in fact in their responses to the replica how, in fact, about the proposal, these two laws, we don't really have any analysis. We don't know what kind of gauges that army's gonna be able to engage in. It is repeatedly said that it is within the framework of logistics, humanitarian work, etc. So, everything the military and now under the current law can and does, that is, does when it comes to that great refugee wave. Therefore, it should be assumed that there is absolutely no need now at this time to go with these amendments to the law and this by an urgent procedure and without any public debate. The laws which, by my deep conviction, I agree with you when you spoke on behalf of the club are actually contrary to the Constitution. You said this government might not be able to handle it, so it goes with these bill proposals. However, I would say that this government is doing well in this and that, in essence, it is just a continuation of one policy and a continuation of action by both the president of the state and the then leader of the opposition who had been openly calling for several months ago, saying that the army should be sent to the Croatian borders. Let's remember they were going around gossiping about our government instead of helping with their influence through the NATO alliance, through the EU that countries such as Hungary and Slovenia do not raise fences towards Croatia. What I can now assume is that I do not know what kind of gauges the military is expecting, that one of the main tasks will be for Croatia to be fenced with wire fences, wire and wire fences. Dear colleagues and colleagues, did anyone ask the citizens if they wanted to go to the Croatian borders towards these other neighbors with a wire fence? I think everyone would say no.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5762	Thank you. Is there a need, do you want to talk? No, I don't. For his word, he answered with a replica, the esteemed Minister, Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5763	I'll just warn you of a few circumstances. So, if we step out of the political competition, the first fact and first entry information that the crisis isn't over. It's life. The second thing, the question that can be crystallized here is the constitutionality check. I agree. We're giving the Constitutional Court an answer. Thirdly, I think it is very important to stress that we are already part of the European solution and we are here in a large community both at the Macedonian-Greek border and at the sea in Greece. Finally, I'll just repeat what I said in my explanation. So extremely in exceptional circumstances, the position is, so the starting point is the first one that exceeds the police's capacity based on risk analysis and in the escalation of the humanitarian crisis. And please, here we consider this approach a responsible response to the circumstances in which we can truly find ourselves realistically. Here and please in this context, it would be good to approach this topic beyond the framework of political competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5764	We need replicas first. All right, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5765	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Klisovic, you have already received a kind of response from colleagues from Bačić, and there have been a lot of words about this at the meetings of the Assembly Committee on the Anti-Constitution of these laws. That's your opinion, and you have a right to it. But just because you claim it's against the constitutional doesn't mean that these laws are against the constitutional. Of course, no law, especially the Constitution, can predict all the facts and events that will happen. That the moment the Constitution was written or the final amendment of the Constitution was made, that someone might have predicted what would happen to the refugee crisis, I am convinced that this provision would also be in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as there are but open opportunities for the use of the Croatian Army in other situations. After all, some serious constitutional experts say that the use of the Croatian military in the assistance of the Croatian police did not even require the adoption of these two laws, that the Constitution provides sufficient opportunities for the Croatian Army to... Let me finish. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We noted in the opening statement that the situation was similar at sea and that the Coast Guard assists the Croatian police there, that the Coast Guard Act was passed in 2007 and then there was no dilemma in the Constitution, nor was it who made the debate about the text of the law. It is only 2010 that the Constitution changes the precise role and obligations of the Coast Guard. And what you especially potential. What message are we sending to these laws? We're sending a very simple message. We want to protect the borders of the Republic of Croatia and we want to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their property. That's the basic message of this law. You fellow Sobol and the board have said that there is no need at this time to pass such a law, that the situation has calmed down and there is no need. What happens in 10 days or what happens in a month? Who can predict how this crisis will develop further? So you can see that there is no final answer to this crisis and that this crisis has been resolved in a way that Germany has received all refugees coming to European soil. So there's a lot of reason for these two laws to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5766	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5767	Mr. Minister, when we took office, we all swore to honor the Constitution. These bill proposals are against your constitution. All this is to be achieved because the situation has not been foreseen on the basis of the existing Constitution, and if the military's action is to be extended to help what you provide for by law, it is necessary to amend the Constitution. And you're aware of that, but since it's a little harder to change the Constitution, then you're going with these changes to the law. Therefore, Article 7 paragraph 11 is perfectly clear, so the Armed Forces may, if the nature of the executioners so requires, use the assistance of the police and other state bodies, but under the assumptions of Articles 17 and 101. What you're saying can be done by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister himself in the event of the immediate danger of any kind but that result in a threat to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So what you need and that's to withdraw these bill proposals because you're unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5768	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5769	All I'm asking is for the constitutionality to be entrusted to the Constitutional Court. Here's a check on the constitutionality of the bill, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5770	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said the crisis isn't over. No, we're aware, and I must say if you consider it a matter of national security that there is no place for politics, I agree with you and we will never politicise the issue of national security. That would be unserious. You also said that, twice now and in response to Mrs Ingrid Anticevic, that the constitutionality of the law should be assessed and that you agree. Right? You said if it was necessary, you agreed to evaluate the Constitutional Court. If so, then I expect the Government to refer these proposals to the Constitutional Court for the addition of the law to the assessment of constitutionality. So I expect the government to do it. Deputy Minister Ivić gave me the right to have my own opinion on the constitutionality of this law and that I can present it here unlike some HDZ deputies who have taken it away from me in the debate. Deputy Minister, thank you for that. One more thing, you said that maybe we shouldn't even go with these amendments to the law because the military is already providing logistical support to the police on the ground. Well, that's what we've told you from the beginning, and I've told you in my speech. What we don't want the military to take over the executive powers of the police and not work by the same rules as the police. There is no civil control over the work of the military in case it assumes police powers or the same rules of law and the constitution apply to the military as they apply to the police. Let us not go towards lowering democratic standards or derogating democracy in Croatia in this way. Maybe you're not aware of it, I believe you may not be aware but be careful to open that Pandora box. For some ominous ones, perhaps in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5772	Thank you. Just to mention, the government cannot send either the bill or the law to the assessment of constitutionality. So it's not according to the Constitutional Law of the Constitutional Court. So that possibility is not foreseen. But there are others I know you'll probably use. Thank you very much. Is there a need? No, I don't. Then we move on to the next line, it's the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5773	Dear Minister Orepić, I listened carefully to your opening statement and now that you have answered the word again. Indeed, it seems to me, as my personal position is that these amendments to the law are really unnecessary, it seems to me that's exactly what you're thinking. You said in the introduction that there are two basic reasons, so these are the security humanitarian reasons why the army should be engaged at the borders. What these colleagues are warning about is a lack of assessment of the safety reasons why the military would actually come to the border. Let's assume that this assessment is good, that there is such a threat and that the army should go to the border but what colleagues keep mentioning, and it seems to me that the military is writing in the Constitution anyway. Suppose the assessment is bad and the army gets off the border, what does the army do at the border? The army on the border should have a bullet in the pipe, so vividly express myself. You said here that the army would follow the instructions of the police. Please, if you can explain that to me, it's not clear to me. Because it is known that the military has a chain of command and how it will function. And I say co-operation, what we're talking about, cooperation is also possible under the Constitution and the law. So, however, things are not so clear until the end and they don't need to be trivialized, they can also cause fear among citizens because every appearance of the army at the border is actually a clear message. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5774	We move on to the next line, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, you've heard today, and you, in part, in your brief address have recently referred to a European solution to the problem of the refugee crisis in Europe. As far as I am concerned, the Croatian Army and I, under the Croatian Army, mean the Coast Guard, are taking part in a joint European solution to the conservation of borders in the Mediterranean Sea, so to preserve the EU's borders. Not only that, but as far as I know, a European solution is also a proposal to form a common Coast Guard in the EU. That was the question whether or not the European Commission's proposal would go in any direction. But in any case, I know that because of similar problems, not only in Croatia, but in the whole Mediterranean, a common coast guard has been formed that could effectively monitor European borders. And this European solution includes the involvement of the military, i.e. the Coast Guards of both the Republic of Croatia and other countries in the Mediterranean. In that sense, and on this European trail, I also see this bill that you have proposed, and absolutely in that sense it can be supported if we insist that it be part of the overall European solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5776	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5777	Thank you. So like Minister Orepic, you said the army would engage exceptionally, among other things in the escalation of the refugee, possible escalation of the refugee crisis. And what we're asking you is no answer. In what sense with which resources, in which exact way, so I guess you should know now when you're proposing amendments and additions to this law. If we don't have a reason to doubt what the military is really up to. Will the army come out of our borders in five days and start building a wire fence? That's what I'm interested in. I think it's a public interest. Deputy Minister Ivic, you say some experts warn and say these laws should not have been passed. That's right, that's what I said both yesterday and at the Committee on Internal Policy session. I believe that if you assure me all the time that the military will provide logistical and humanitarian support to the police forces if necessary, then I say why you are changing these two laws when and now, according to existing laws and by the Constitution, it can do so. And yet, of course, you're leading me to doubt good pure intentions and to warn of the possible abuse of irresponsible politicians from whatever side they come from and any function they take. And secondly, tell me, Mr. Deputy, from whom and from what do we protect Croatian citizens from these laws? Are there currently 14,000 refugees, migrants, women and children from whom they began to die, the sick, currently in the mud to the knees? Are we protecting them from them?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5778	Thank you. The Deputy Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5779	If you say you don't even need to pass these laws, how can you claim that they're anti-constitutional? And I think that in itself is contradictory. Who are we going to protect from with these laws? Of all the illegal crossings of the state border. And that's the basic goal. Prevent from protecting borders from illegal crossings, incursions, individuals, groups, groups, etc., which is an absolutely realistic possibility in this situation that is happening. And it's the only one with all the necessary resources. So you won't in law predict both the ways and the methods that the police will use and the military assist in preventing. Well, of course he's not going anywhere, and he's never going to write in law. It's a matter of assessing and evaluating relevant people to make a decision on how and with what means they will protect the border.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5780	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5781	Thank you. Mr. Minister, my impression is that instead of you defending the law, you're trying to make the law defend you by stating that this law is being passed so that it may never be passed, or that the military will not be used. But in the light of this law, it clearly states, given the attainment of the migrant crisis currently facing the countries of the so-called so-called so-called state. The Balkan route, as well as other Member States of the European Union, in order to ensure more effective protection of the state border, which is also the external borders of the European Union and to ensure the smooth conduct of operations within the competence of the police in order to eliminate possible threat to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, has shown the need to provide support to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the protection of the state border. So in the situation where we had several thousand migrants a day there was no problem or need to engage the army and now that we have zero migrants a day and we still present it as a great success then suddenly there is a need to engage the army. That doesn't make sense to me. This law is not a law that is passed for normal situations and by respecting the appeal of the chairman of the session, I will not use difficult words such as the state of emergency, but I will use the word special. So when we come into a special situation then the Croatian Parliament can meet and make decisions it considers necessary and I think that we are not in a special state now and it is only here that the powers of the Croatian Parliament are being transferred to the so-called Ministry of Interior, Prime Minister and President of the Republic of Croatia. And don't be surprised that the representatives of the Croatian Assembly with one discomfort or with one large reserve look at it. Therefore, when it is estimated that this should be done, it may be possible to do so and until then this law is unnecessary. If a pass is to be put on a limited duration of this law and I think the government should actually withdraw this law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5782	Thank you. There's no need to answer that. Next replica, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5783	Honorable Minister Orepic, you say the military will only be used exceptionally. But who will determine that the situation has become exceptional? Government, executive power. You only say in certain situations. Who will determine that this situation is now defined? Government, executive power. Based on the analysis, you say. Whose analysis? Government again, executive authorities. We're afraid of Minister Orepic's abuse of this law. You arranged for refugees to board trains in Macedonia and bring everyone there to the Slovenian border, and it seems to me that according to the news I watched, you were successful. If you're so successful at what I congratulate and thank you for, then you should be the first one to say we don't need this law, so I've solved it. There we will board them and land them in Slovenia there is no danger at all. And tell both the prime minister and the deputy prime minister, the first deputy prime minister not to go with this law. Why are we afraid of government abuse? Well, because there were already others compared to you, so the Deputy Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, interpreted to you that he was your superior and he wasn't. You're the only one in charge of the Prime Minister. You, as minister, answer to the Prime Minister under the Government Act. That's what the vice president of the Parliament had to interpret publicly. So when the Deputy Prime Minister isn't afraid to come after you so publicly, I'm afraid he'll come after me and others who will consider his opponents. And I'm asking you as the Minister of the Interior that I appreciate for this short period of time. Protect me and other citizens, protect yourself, but primarily protect democracy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5784	Thank you. There's no need to answer that. We move on to the next line, the distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5785	Thank you very much. I've replicated the Honorable Deputy Minister. We're listening to the deputy here today that no one's asked the people. The article of the Constitution says first: "The government comes from the people and belongs to the people." And so it would. We had elections, in direct elections elected President of the Republic of Croatia. We had elections for the Parliament, elected parliamentary representatives of these here. Of them, the parliamentary majority, elected Prime Minister. Such power has the right to make decisions, but they say we must ask the people again. They're probably thinking about the poll. Is this how we ask the people, the poll or we individually ask Nenad Stazic what he thinks? So I think every government has the right to make decisions, it's chosen, legal. They say the constitutional question of the provisions of this law. Who's the loudest voice we've got here? The Deputy Prime Minister, who we here in the House say is the law unconstitutional, the whole law. No, they're doing nothing with their hands. The procedure goes through, the whole law put out of force by the Constitutional Court. A former minister whose decisions in the Constitutional Court fell in line following strong warnings from the parliament as well. But she passed the procedure. Who can question the constitutionality of the law? Individual, citizen, party, politician, parliamentary representative. Who's defending them? But let us pass the law, discuss this law in a way that we can pass it. But what have we got? We have demagogues here who now in opposition know everything they didn't know in power. And now they're very surprised, frustrated because I say we had a fight with everyone while they were running foreign policy, with all the neighbors. They didn't care at all. They brought Lex Perkovic a few days before joining the EU. They were not at all contentious, but now they are big advocates of the EU, so let's not say that shameful event to go to Hungary and someone stops him there beyond all the rules. A strong effort to get... Don't listen to them, let's discuss this and pass this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Downstairs: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5786	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Would you like to respond? Assistant Minister, Deputy Minister, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5787	I agree with my colleague, Boric, with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5788	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5789	Mr. Orepic, I absolutely agree with you. Of course, the Constitutional Court will assess the constitutionality of the provisions of the law you amend that is safe and evident. On the other hand, the deputy minister sitting next to you has actually cited the reason for the adoption of this law among other things and the illegal crossings of the Croatian state border. I would like you to tell us how many illegal crossings there have been in the past six months, given the 650,000 refugees who have passed through the Republic of Croatia we would like to know how many illegal crossings of the Croatian state border have been made in the past six months and whether this requires these amendments to the law. Also yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee of Defence Ministers Mr Buljevic mentioned several things that the Armed Forces, namely the Croatian Army should do to amend the Law on Defence against Electronic Control, from physical control of the Croatian border, etc. I don't mind, but you have to write it in the law. You must write precisely in the law, regardless of the Constitution, you must write in law what the Croatian Army will do together with the Croatian police when monitoring or controlling the Croatian border surveillance. This cannot be solved by an agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior because the engagement and activity of the Armed Forces is a constitutional category of other species. And lastly, I think it is fair to tell Croatian citizens that we want to change the relationship, i.e. the current one, and this government wants to change the attitude towards migrants in the Republic of Croatia. And we want to, uh, put an army on the border and put a wire on the border. And then it's just as legitimate, it's a different policy, but politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5790	Thank you. The deputy minister will respond, Mr. Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5791	Comrade Dragovan, you do not want to accept the argument that we initially said, that this is just opening an opportunity. This does not mean that tomorrow the Croatian army will be at the border. That doesn't mean, and you're always talking about how tomorrow's tanks are going to be lit, that they're going to go out on the streets and similar scenarios. So this is just the opening of the possibility that the Croatian army is assisting the Croatian police in protecting the Croatian borders and nothing more. Will that be necessary or will there be no need? Well, it'll show the time. If there is no need of course that the army will not be at the borders, but also if there is a need of course to assist the Croatian police in the protection of national borders. Well, I think it's understandable in itself, and it shouldn't be a problem at all. It is not anyone's intention to abuse the Croatian military or anything but to create a legal assumption that tomorrow if we get into this situation we can do so. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5792	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, have you responded with a special replica to the defence minister's presentation or have you used your right? Yes, thank you. Next is Honorable fellow Stazic, you used your replica as well? ... And you want another one, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5793	Yes, Deputy Ivić. My dear Deputy, your responsibility is great. The Croatian army is depolitized completely, completely. After President Mesic retired the generals, before that, she was not, you know that officers in uniform were coming to party meetings, and today this is not happening. They must not be party members, they must not attend party meetings, they must not act politically. And they don't work. We have a professional army we can all be proud of. And how she behaves and how she's equipped and how she works. It is your great responsibility not to allow the re-politicization of the army. This law, this bill of law makes it possible. That outside the constitution, outside the current legal framework under which the military acts as depolitical, it will be used in a way that Vice President Karamarko begins to interpret that there is danger somewhere. Well, anyway, he said he didn't respect the Home Secretary, so no matter what the police do, he says no, it's the military, you're not doing it well, and I'm here in charge of national security because I'm the Deputy Prime Minister. And then use the army. That's what we're talking about, the dangers of abuse. Do not ruin this position that has been built for many years by the Croatian Army. You say which rights should be protected by this law, who should be protected? The citizens of Croatia should be protected. From whom and in what way, Deputy Minister? From who and what way? Because we don't know that, it doesn't say that here. So I know what Karamarko will interpret tomorrow as a national hazard. If he listens to Shuker, he'll turn three tanks on me. You say yourself that this law is unnecessary and that I fully agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5794	Thank you. Time's up. A distinguished representative, Damir Krstičević, appeared in his injury to the Rules of Procedure before you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5795	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. Dear Representative Stazic speaks of a subject that is not subject to discussion. Regarding retirement, I was one of those generals and Mr. President, former President Mesic and his retirement, and I signed that letter with my honorary fellow generals. I'd sign it again, Mr. Stazic, because I fought for the truth about the Homeland War. Homeland war is clean, he is liberating and he has brought Croatian peace and freedom, Mr. Stazic!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5796	For his word, he responded with an injury and a distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5797	I ask you nicely, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, not to allow my colleague Stazić to insult the honorable and honest Croatian army with his rhetorical exhibition. If the Croatian Army does honestly and fairly with all possible praises in all international missions, say that the Croatian Army would turn the pipe or any Croatian politician on any Croatian citizen is extremely humiliating and offensive. We stick to debates and political bickering, but let's keep people a little bit of dignity. At least a minimum of dignity so that people don't watch us look. But let's keep at least a minimum of dignity to those who have proved to be top professionals and people who know how to act in the most critical areas of the world. So this is really... And some of the army drove from the island to the island, but then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5798	Thank you. I'll give you my word, you've heard from a few others about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. But apparently this debate has reached a level that crosses the limits of a normal parliamentary debate. I have really asked several times that there should be no insults, that individuals should not be mentioned in a negative context that should simply not be called in this parliamentary debate. I ask you all that this debate on these bill proposals really doesn't deserve that kind of debate being held. Please refrain from insulting any person, especially when speaking in the context of government officials or the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5799	I also join, I think the injured Rules of Procedure No. 238, Mr. Stazic doesn't stick to the agenda. Mr. Stazić, you are known as a person who has already apologized many times for her statements, and often through courts, please stop being a political pyromaniac, stop bringing this debate beyond the limits of good taste.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5800	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure and the honourable representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5801	My colleague Stazic injured Article 238 by insulting the most honorable people who have achieved freedom, including my commander in IV. Brigades, I, as a professional soldier and an officer of the Croatian Army, consider this a distortion of the truth about the Homeland War. ... 12 generals who have signed with Gotovina, our Damir Krstic and others that the violation of the truth about the Homeland War and the foundation of the Croatian state that has created freedom and this is how this Parliament works because of these true leaders in the early 1990s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would ask you, Mr. President, to immediately, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, when such debates begin to cease. If you don't Club of Representatives of the Most will leave this session, this one, until you sort it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5802	Thank you. And the violation of the Rules of Procedure is the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5803	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238 speaks of a subject which is not subject to discussion and I would ask you to use it as vice president and chair of these meetings of the article... And that ye may give him this warning, for he shall use this voice, that he may not offend all that is moving, or that which is seen in his head. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because here he spoke on the line to the esteemed deputy about the Deputy Prime Minister and the three tanks facing him. It's a man who's known for his premonitions. He was seeing some kind of nonexistent portals, so everyone had to apologize for it. Now he sees it, today he sees the military office, and now he sees the vice president of the government who's directed three tanks towards him. Please give him a warning because it's normal. While he chaired these sessions, while he was the Deputy Prime Minister, but some others were also giving warnings of a wrong look, let alone debates like this and these difficult words and all that he said today. And give him more warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5804	Thank you. Obviously, I missed this past term of office where there were such situations, and I don't know how the session was led by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic, so forgive me for not having that experience, the former reminders. But once again, please, it is quite right that as an opposition you are contesting and if you want the constitutionality of the proposed laws but there are constitutional, prescribed institutes that you will challenge it, it can be a parliamentary minority. So I believe that you will take this opportunity and leave the decision to the Constitutional Court. But that's why there's no need to insult it, to speak heavy words about hypothetical situations or to give God no use of any constitutional institute. So there is no need to enter hypothetical scenarios completely inappropriate to this parliamentary debate. So now we're done with this part Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5805	Re-Article 33, Honorable Vice President, so I'm speaking to you. Don't, if you're going to let your colleagues in breach of the Rules of Procedure replicate me when they don't have a business opportunity to replicate, then we're going to introduce it into practice. Then we'll all do it. 'Cause you, I'm sorry, you're taking this session completely biased. Look, I didn't insult anyone, I said that the Croatian Army is honorable, that we can be proud of it especially because it is depoliticized. I did not retire 12 generals, it was done by President Mesic on the basis of his constitutional powers and there is no need for me to yell at that retirement. There's no need for you to allow me to be attacked and pollemized by people under an incorrect pretext. So let them report to the replica when I speak if they dare to hear my reply to the replica. I addressed Deputy Ivić, Deputy Ivić and asked him not to, because it is his duty to politicise the Croatian army. I have not offended anyone, I have invited Mr. Ivic to respect the Constitution and the law. I don't know why everyone else found themselves offended. But I find myself offended by you, Mr. Vice President, because you allow the session to take place in this way. And I'll always react like that. This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5806	The injury was as your fellow MPs said, among other things, and that you mentioned the Deputy Prime Minister who, under these proposed laws, does not play a role in making certain decisions. So you mentioned him completely inappropriately. It's like, um... But he also mentioned the vice-president of the government concerned by certain injuries, so it does not refer to the debate on the agenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let's not mention which Deputy Prime Minister you referred to. I hope we've exhausted the Rules of Procedure's injuries. ... Yes, you will answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5807	Thank you very much. My fellow intern, of course we're aware of our responsibilities. And precisely because of the awareness of that responsibility before you and these two proposals are the addition of the law. Because we want to regulate all-powerful situations in an adequate legal way. And you don't have to be afraid of the politics of the Croatian Army. But the fact is that your debate is political. I did not say that this law is not necessary but I said that some respected scholars of the Constitution say that there is no need and that the Constitution, the existing Constitution, allows the possibility of using for these purposes of the Croatian Army's troops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5808	Dear Representative Milorad Batinic reported with a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5809	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am just using the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure to remind you of Article 236, which says that as chairman, you are obliged to give clarification to colleagues who spoke about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, whether or not there were injuries to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5810	Yes, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, yes, yes. And I also told the honourable representative, Nenad Stazic, that he was not talking about the subject on the agenda. Yeah, yeah. Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5811	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Ivić because he was talking about protecting citizens that the basic objective of this law is to protect citizens. However, I will look again at what I said and today at the beginning of this little debate of ours. So, if we protect citizens, we cannot protect them by jeopardising their rights, and the right to access information is one of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And unfortunately, you don't seem to understand that concept because you're on the statement of your colleague from the HDZ Club who was saying why ask some citizens when we're elected by citizens, so it turns out that the president of the state can pass the law regardless of consulting citizens. It is, therefore, the right for citizens to express their views on all issues brought by law and sublaw. And you violated the law on the right to access information. The Peace Studies Centre will submit a proposal for a constitutional assessment. And according to its practice, the Constitutional Court will not consider the content of the law at all, because the procedure has been violated. I'm telling you this well-intentioned because I burned myself in the procedure and really part of my sublegal acts is being challenged because of the procedure because no consultation with the interested public has been conducted. I have warned you of this well-intentioned, through both the parliamentary question and the prime minister and in both ministries, I have not received an answer. Unfortunately, it's one ignoring of our parliamentary issues. We are witnessing the answers a colleague named Hajdukovic received. That is not my responsibility, and if you had respected this procedure today, this debate would probably have gone in a quieter tone and in a direction that would not lead to this much unnecessary rise in tension within Parliament, which again does not go in favour of Parliament's parliamentary work and respect for the Parliament in the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5812	Thank you. Deputy Minister Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5813	My colleague Jovanovic, I agree with you that there is no reason to raise tension and unnecessary debate. But I don't agree with you that we've broken a legal provision when it comes to the procedure of passing this law. The law is passed by constitutional procedure and no member of the law is injured, if you mean the Law on the right to access information. I don't see where the injury was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5814	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. And you called? Excuse me. So you signed up for the final? ... But we still have a replica. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I think we have been able to agree that we have failed to agree, or have been able to agree, but you have concluded that you have realized that the MPs who have replicated you believe that the military can be used under the current laws. And I agree with that, too, and I want to say this. I believe that the current conduct of the executive in the event of a refugee crisis has been in the current normative frameworks correctly and there is no need to amend the normative frameworks, i.e. that at least I and most of us at the SDP club do not see such circumstances as would require the amendment of the legal frameworks. And then when such circumstances agree, it can be discussed. At this point, the situation is from the point of view of the so-called. The threat to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is somewhat better than it was in the early tenth, eleventh, 12th, first and second months. Therefore, there is no need to put additional mechanisms in the normative framework especially with a permanent state, since these two laws do not have some time limit to apply for three months so that it can be extended. And therefore, once again I call for you to withdraw these two laws. And if circumstances are so necessary, then we can discuss it again. So, at this point, this is the transfer of power from the Croatian Parliament to the executive power and the President of the Republic as regards the military, and let us MPs have some discomfort in that regard and that at this point we oppose it because we do not see that this is the situation. And I think here it is that I haven't contributed to an increase in tension, at least I'm trying, although I know sometimes differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5816	Thank you. The Republic also has a distinguished representative, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5817	Dear Ministers and Deputy Minister. As you said, the Armed Forces are under the Constitution and naturally obliged to protect their borders. It is clearly defined in our Constitution, but it is through history as well. However, Croatian governments before these have already threatened, meaning territorial integrity by setting up border crossings, so in Dalmatia Zagora, Billy Brig, 20 km of the Split air line, 5 km from Sinj, two km of the border crossing has been dragged into state territory and now the border crossing has been made. There is a threat to the integrity that Croatia is fighting for the Savudrija wave and other Prevlaka, which is why the state, I warn you that you know what the previous governments were doing. 2 km times 1,000 km of border, if we do so, we have lost the territory for which we shed blood. That's why I'm warning you here now look, check it out. People protested, associations, the population. The Council of the City of Sinja sent a letter to the former Ministry of Interior, solve the case because the people who have bled for their country cannot give up their sovereignty. And that's the hostile act of the one who allowed it. That's why you analyze it well again and solve it. The former governments are responsible for not bringing in a new National Defence Strategy, and I warn you in 2002, we still have that strategy, and in 2009, we entered NATO, the strategy still doesn't say that we are in NATO at all. The seriousness of the situation, the national security defence strategy, is very important. It's not a toy like some people think. We take seriously, and that is the most important stability of the state and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5818	Thank you. There's no need to answer that. You didn't answer the line because no one recorded it. ... I mean, I've asked my associates, but no one's seen you answer the line, but good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, let's not deny those two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said that when the representatives of this House adopted the Constitution that at that moment perhaps they were unaware of this situation that is happening today, and that they were aware they would probably enter into the Constitution and the possibility of using the Armed Forces for these needs that are required today in addition to the law. Well, didn't you just admit that the Constitution does not have the authority to use the Armed Forces as proposed by the government? Because I think it's implicit that it is. Therefore, I repeat our appeal that the law should be withdrawn because what you have explained to us is the reasons for the use of the Armed Forces why they want to be used for this you do not need a law supplement. It's been done for a while, and you can do it from now on. The second thing, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I think the topic of our debate here today is not the Croatian Army and its character. That's where we get along. The Croatian army is honorable, we are proud of it said by Mr. Stazic and all of us here and there is no dispute. The Croatian Army is all of us and we will be again if necessary, if our national security or sovereignty of this country is compromised. And there are no disputes and let us not open up questions about which there is no dispute between the people in this assembly, in the Croatian people and among the citizens of Croatia. Let's not do that. It's very important and it's your responsibility as vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5820	Thank you. If we all agree on the character and significance of the Croatian Army, how did we come to the point of an attempt at a coup? Then who would take him out? Deputy Minister, Mr. Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5821	Mr. Klisovic, I was talking about that no law, and especially the Constitution, I can't predict all the possibilities that are going to happen. And in that sense, I was saying that the need for both of these laws is to define precisely the use of the Armed Forces in assisting the Croatian police. Nothing else. I didn't say this was against the constitution, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5822	Thank you. We've exhausted all the replicas. We move on to the next exhibition on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, Honorary colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5823	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. With this interpretation of the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure, we will destroy any serious debate in this House. And if that's what you want to do, and you've opened the precedent for it today, then we'll do it in the future. We will report for breach of the Rules of Procedure for anything we do not like and use Article 238. That doesn't make sense. If you want to prevent other clubs from participating in the debate book this for the HDZ and SDP club, you can but form your Parliament and you do so there. I speak plainly! The other thing I want to say is about the subject. The minister said there would be a risk assessment. Analysis of the basis for the amendment and addition of these two laws has not been made. I will now make a small contribution to that analysis. Republic of Croatia since '91. When she had 11,000 cops to date, there are over 20,000 cops. Why do 20,000 active police officers plus I don't know how many retired police officers, plus I don't know how many members of the intelligence community are not enough to protect the border of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Constitution and the law? That's the first question. The second question is, why has the experience we have had in the past few months with over 600,000 refugees in which the police were dealt and still handled under your ministry excellently and without wire and without an army, why are we today imposing on this same police department the understanding that it is not enough to carry out a job that has done well until yesterday and today without any incident? And without any wire and no army where we as a state with our own security system and police and intelligence proved more capable than others and didn't do circuses and didn't embarrass ourselves. These are two facts as a possible basis for an analysis showing that existing police forces that are not small, 450 police members of the 100,000 population. We are at the top of Europe at such capacity. Secondly, this problem is an external political problem, ours, European and global. We need to see what kind of foreign policy we need to lead and how we need to participate in European Union policy, in its foreign and security policy in order to... including humanitarian to deal with this kind of challenge as little as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're very enthusiastic when we're supposed to be involved in some war activities. We are very underestimating the risks when assessing whether we are going to support some kind of war activities and political activities that result in this type of humanitarian disaster. And now we're not even asking what price that price can have for us. A colleague says it will endanger our tourism, but we need to think about it before someone says it seems to me General Krsticevic if we want to act preventively and then we do not act preventively when the war has sown the consequences rather than before and we have not thought about it or thought about it enough. And we were enthusiastic about things that there was no doubt about, there was no place for enthusiasm or today. It is therefore my opinion that we should step up our share of European and security policy and show to what extent countries like Croatia are as close as our neighbours like Italy are so close to high risk areas. That it is necessary to think about how and how to protect us, our economy, 18% of tourism. How do you protect against the risks of conflicts that are so close to us? We only experienced it when we saw people coming to our border in a few days. From a world that we thought was far from us by historical and time and territorial standards is a whole other world. But it's not. The third thing I would like to say is the necessity of police cooperation in the region and security services in the region. Starting with Greece, but above all Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. Will this change improve this cooperation? And potentially taking the army to the border to improve that cooperation? I'm not sure. Or will they just raise doubts and strengthen mistrust? So it seems to me that it is a more efficient mechanism to strengthen our security to work with countries in the region and to work primarily with the European security system to protect ourselves from the many risks that they carry with them. The fourth thing I'd like to say is, if it hadn't been for the invitation to take the army to the border in the last half of the year, this would have looked different, Mr. Deputy Minister. So the police were doing a great job and doing it, but still some invited the army to the border, without justification, unfortunately as it is now. If it wasn't for those who say we need to introduce a manual army, or we need to rebuild the mandatory service of a military deadline within a certain scope, this would look different, but don't be angry if I tell you this looks like a legislative measure of securitisation and militarization. And don't be mad at me if I see it that way. And we do not have the basis for this, nor the budget and we do not yet have luck, nor do we have in what we would have as indications of a security threat or humanitarian dangers that would threaten the Republic of Croatia more than it has tried so far. It's really a serious question that other colleagues and colleagues have encouraged, and some colleagues have shook their hands like this and said so anyway. Taking power from Parliament and giving power to the government is not common and is not a normal procedure. And you can't get to that with a sophistication. If it says in the Constitution that he's got it, so now the government's taking it to do it, so what's the problem? Well, the problem is that it says in the Constitution who can do it and the law now says who's going to do it. The Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and the MPs have the same sense of responsibility for national security and for disasters that can affect it, including humanitarian ones coming from outside. And there is no doubt, there is really no doubt that it is not necessary under these circumstances to transfer these powers to the government and to say Parliament until it meets or I don't know what else. The Parliament has these powers and should leave them to it. Finally, I would like to say that these experiences should be used to strengthen the institutional capacities that the country can have. This means raising our police institutional capacity for specific situations and for specific circumstances. Raising our army's institutional capacities and cooperation between the military and the police, given certain circumstances, but not in this way. You say this is only a possibility, but as soon as you've given the opportunity, as soon as you've taken Parliament and handed it over to the government, as soon as you've created such an assumption, then threaten the dangers of institutions that have to act independently, which must have a high degree of autonomy, let's leave it to what's called political games. And political games with police and military should not be allowed in democratic societies and there is no need to be allowed. There's no need. And we've been witnessing them for the past half of the year what we can hear and what we can see a kind of political game with the military and with the police. Even though we have testified to the judiciary and still testify. And instead of doing that, we're dealing with who has the right to harm the Rules of Procedure or not, in the way it's been practiced here today. Let's step up our own institutions. This way we won't strengthen them, not even the institution of the border. Look at what the border looks like to us, how many residents live along our border in the depths of 30, 50, 60 and 100 km. What are we doing with that aspect to strengthen border security? We don't do anything, we don't even create development programs, we just stay on the story of it, we'll provide for every newborn child of 1,000 euros as if it'll solve the problem. He won't. We therefore greatly appreciate your efforts, Mr. Minister, and your efforts, Mr. Deputy Minister. But these are serious topics and serious questions that have been raised here in the House and please transfer them and take them seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5824	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5825	Yes, colleague, I agree with you. This is not a question, and these bill proposals are not a question of the military. This is a matter of politics and policy relations to this, this problem. The issue of constitutionality here is also very important when you pollemize and open up this key problem that the rulings propose. He says, well, this is, not us, this is just a possibility. That's the problem, that's what the Constitution gives. The law can only work. I can't legally expand the possibilities when the military is giving help to the police. This condition that you have stated here does not exist in the Constitution. Yes, that condition could lead to consequences when the situation is in danger. Now, that's in the Constitution, in Article 101, and I know how to handle it. However, by giving you the same confession, and in the past and the past minister who faced this humanitarian crisis and Croatia, where our police have shown and still shows that they are at the height of their professional and human task. And that is something that has left the astonishment not only in our citizens' Croatia, but throughout Europe and beyond. Different abuses, why the MPs here are so careful. Because the system, the Constitution and the laws must be such that they function in the everyday personnel combination, not because yesterday was the minister, today everyone, tomorrow or in a few years, who knows who. That's the problem. Because there's a problem that's put forward by my colleague Pupovac for good purposes, a problem of militarization. So, tomorrow at the border, where the day after tomorrow? On the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5826	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5827	If we're going to discuss this thing with cold heads and no prior convictions. We have two facts that testify to the extent to which our police are performing this job extremely competently. One was this refugee wave. But every year we have hundreds of thousands of tourists coming from different parts of the world to our country and our police are doing a great job. It is not possible to further train available police facilities for possible new challenges our police might face when it comes to borders. I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5828	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5829	Dear colleague Pupovac, I welcome your initiative to discuss this with the cold heads. That's why I'm going to try to react to the part of your exposure where you said we were successfully dealing with 600 thousand people who passed our field. We must remember that many, even in this assembly, were making fun of the announcements that 100,000 people would cross our territory. So now I'm asking a question, and what if at this point an unimaginable figure goes through our field of over a million people? So what do we do? On the other hand, you were talking about a number of 16 thousand cops. I'm telling you there are more. If we consider how many authorized officials we can consider to be persons who have authority under the Police Act to apply power if we have so many, however, am I asking a question as much as we actually have the right police officers? Look, it's a question for the minister, however, it's a question of possible future reform and rationalisation of the interior ministry itself. But you also don't need to take this fact just so easily. So we ask the question, and you yourself have said how much the Home Office is even prepared for challenges that may be greater than we had last year, especially considering that we may not be equipped enough and considering that it felt in the air last year that maybe 10, 50 or 100 thousand people entered Croatia to make the whole system crack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5830	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5831	My dear colleague, I said that the Republic of Croatia has more than 20,000 members in the active police system. Plus, about 6 grand or more more of those who are employed in the ministry, and that's about 26 grand in total of the Ministry of the Interior. If there are some who are estimated not to be qualified for the jobs they should be for, then you're going in the direction that I think you should go in, which is to see how to train a police staff to do their job in accordance with the needs that the state can have. And by doing so, we will strengthen the additional capacities that we potentially have but are not used because people have been accepted on some grounds that are not enough to do the job that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5832	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs are an honor and a pleasure to welcome them at the Croatian Parliament's diplomatic gallery. Dr. Milan Brglez, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia who is visiting Croatia for official visits. Welcome! . Thank you. [[Applause.]] We keep working. So the next replica, Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Pupovac is your right and that on the basis of fragmentary data and false premises you come to the point that this proposal is a measure of militarization of Croatian society. It is mine, however, to warn of the fact that it is working here on the one hand not to slow down this well done police work with these 650 thousand people but to warn of the fact that it was actually a transit that was a European agreement to pass through Croatia and it could have been done. In the meantime, however, the route has been closed from a European position at European level, Europe has no new concept to address the migrant crisis. The fact is probably clear to everyone and without specific analysis that the pressure on Europe is that it will continue to be for years and in my opinion it is a key situation that will happen if this new illegal unarranged route bypasses Greece as a member of the EU and then Croatia will be the first to be a member of the EU in which thousands of people can then come out or try to cross the Croatian border. The police forces in this case are not enough, regardless of what you said are the largest compared to the population of 100,000 people in Europe, and this is calculated precisely because Croatia has more borders than territory to be picturesquely expressed. Therefore, neither these forces will be sufficient because we have only 1,000km of border with BiH, nor will there be enough force on this possible sea route for the existing force of police and military forces that are now common to stop that part. And that's what this is about, not militarization or I don't know what else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5834	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5835	I, of course, appreciate your assessment because it comes from a man who understands this matter. But I would like to say this, that if this assessment exists then it is minimum for the Committee on National Security and the Defence Committee to receive adequate analysis through them too. And that Parliament does not bypass this matter and does not get the laws in the way that this law is obtained. Because it's sensitive matter, you know it better than I do, managing the powers of the state is one of the most sensitive things we can have in our hands. And there wasn't enough sensitivity here for that fact. Fearing international crises, fearing refugee waves is not enough to justify such a sensitive thing especially among people who approach and think responsibly about matter like this. For this reason, it seems to me that Parliament is on the one hand surrounded by a serious debate on this matter and, on the other hand, in a legal solution, the possibility opens up for Parliament to decide on matters in which it has constitutional powers to decide on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5836	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5837	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Well, Your Honor, Mr. Pupovci. I'd like to actually just connect and back up with some of the data that you tried to supply yourself in your own debate, but I think I have more relevant data. But before I take them out, I'd like to say that every seriously decorated country only brings an army to its border in the event of its threat. If the police have insufficient capacity then it is also logical to hire the reserve police. That's what I wanted to say to Croatia, right now there are what retired police officers, what retired workers, military people, working 7 thousand at the age of 50 to 54, or 13 thousand 244 persons aged 45 to 65 with an average pension of 3500 kuna. And then, of course, we ask ourselves, instead of stegmatizing them to have privileged pensions, we use their knowledge, their experience, their skills as you want to protect the safety of citizens and let's step up active police at the border when the situation is such that it has to be strengthened. And in the end, let me just say that in hunting terms, let's not let guns go to sparrows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5838	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I didn't know that information, but he's just one of these little facts we need to know when we're deciding on this kind of measure. If it's like you say, and we have no reason not to believe that it's so expressed in facts. So we still have about 13,000 people who not long ago came out of the active force of any police force. Can't we, as a state, figure out how and how we're going to use experience, abilities, knowledge, the skills of these people in a case like these? Of course we can. But someone thinks it's the most pressing thing, let's reach out for the army because that sounds good, that sounds good, that's what you see especially if I say it. And there's one in our police force who likes to dick themselves with military vocabulary and military uniforms and military instruments. I'm sorry that my colleague Tudjman left, but that's one of the additional motives that I said what I said. We have capacities, we try to analyze them, and then only after that do we see when and at what point we really need to use the army, if we need to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5840	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5841	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. With all due respect, Mr. Pupovac, I welcome your proposal and your good intentions to engage those who have experience from some past times in the coming troubles. So I can represent those who first worked with refugees, among other things, I think I'm the only one here besides my distinguished general. It's that we first accepted refugees from Almash, so we accepted refugees in Kupenski.../The speaker doesn't understand.... you know. So we also sent out some who called themselves refugees, so some of them said and expelled, we didn't, they left on their own. And that's where I took part, of course. So I have a big empathy when it comes to all refugees on any basis and on any issue because no one likes to see those little faces crying, barefooting in the mud, both their own and others'. But I am expressing concern that all of you have gotten into the fact that we don't bring the army to our border or anywhere else to run it. I guess someone who took responsibility in this government and over this state created some security judgment based on which he estimated that military engagement in some situations would be necessary. Wasn't it just the acceptance of the refugee police that went through Serbia only because the army hired, what did that camp, what did those tents and what helped? It's not all barbed wire because our border to other neighbors is very divorced and it's hard to cover only with the police that are small as far as the number is concerned to cover our border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5842	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5843	I agree with you that our army at that critical moment played a significant role in helping to address the issues of refugees who have arrived on our territory in accordance with the Constitution and thus can be continued. And there's a difference between your position and my position. What I would still like to say by estimating your merits, not as a representative but as a member of the Special Police, so that it would not be much more useful in line with the debate that was opened thanks to the information provided by a colleague from the Croatian Party of Retired Persons. Would it not be better if retired members of police and military formations instead of taking part in political activities, political gatherings and setting up political matters were active participants in these things we talk about and to be honored by what they know, by what they can and by the feelings they no doubt have when it comes to the country? To make this more appropriate to the uniforms they have, the knowledge they have and the oaths they have sworn.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5844	The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Pupovac, you said the issue of the refugee crisis and the issue of foreign policy is that Croatia's share of the European common security foreign policy should be strengthened. I agree with you and that's why in the last term the government played an extremely active role in this area. And here we are sitting with the foreign minister from the government, who was the first in the EU Council for European Affairs to make proposals on how to stabilise Syria. Because we know unless we stabilize the sources of instability that we won't be able to stop the refugee crisis. The first in two stages divided the process, the first phase in which it... should play a role, which is the phase of stabilising the country in terms of stopping military operations and winning over the Islamic state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And phase two, the beginning of a political process where the Syrian people should choose their leadership and where... You shouldn't necessarily play a political role if the Syrian people don't want to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our allies did not accept it well on purpose, but eventually it became an EU policy. Therefore, it is an important contribution from Croatia to the common European security and foreign policy made by Croatia in the form of the foreign minister. Did the Croatian prime minister, foreign minister or any member of the government ask the Minister for a background briefing, one background information about what was going on, what Croatian policy was doing, what results were achieved to perhaps continue to build on these results. No, not according to what I know. But that's why we could read in the paper attempts to reduce the prospects of the former minister of candidacy for one of the most prestigious places in international politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5846	This has nothing to do with the agenda now. Thank you. You haven't answered. Okay. Then let's go to the last line, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5847	Thank you, dear colleague Professor Pupovac. Your part of the debate that points to the presence of political games and the politicization of this topic, has made me think a little differently about the scale of things and try to say a little bit of the direction we're talking about. So we've been talking all day and warning the public there's a crisis. The minister said the crisis is ongoing, that the crisis is present, serious, is likely to last. And isn't that the basis of one theory at all, so-called Chicago Economic Schools, so-called The doctrine of shock that says that an atmosphere of state of emergency could be a general threat, in order to then create a conjecture on Friedman's theory of the definitive deregulation of the state, desocialization of society so-called. the clean market, i.e. the minimum state and maximum corporate capital. Why do I say that? It is indicative that two new advisers, the economic advisers of the prime minister, have been reported to be just the people of Chicago's school of very hard-core Libertarians. Isn't it just indicative yesterday in the budget that we saw the state absolutely cutting social resources for civil society? It is likely that the debate and the topic of health reorganisation will come very quickly, and it warns me of that famous only crisis that is real or perceivable is producing a state of change. And this Friedman theory in many countries has proved to be very disputable and even very predatory.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5848	You don't have to. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5849	Thank you, Vice President. According to a colleague, Pupovac, in one part of his debate threatens tourism. So, after questionable constitutionality, tanks on the street that is militarisation this law will endanger Croatian tourism. Great! We take care of the tourists, the people as they do. Why do I say that? You were part of the ruling majority, and you did not then say that the threat of tourism is raising between VAT rates from 10 to 13 for catering services. Competitiveness. You didn't care. By disrupting the problem of passing the law, so-called law. lex Perkovic, 28.06.2013. three days before EU entry, it was not a threat to tourism and trust, 78 votes for and 6 against. You have also given your hands ready to change the Constitution to make this law nice and resuscitate So I'm proving that it's not a threat to tourism, Reverend Vice President. [[Intrudica Podolnjak: Please stick to the agenda and these points. Both sides.]] Here's what I'm trying to prove is that it's not a threat to tourism, and I'm stating what was a threat, and they agreed to it, and they raised their hand. [[/Invadica Podolnjak: Just now there is a colleague Horvat, you. Please, please.]] And now for one possibility given by this law and for your perception that thousands of kilometers of borders are already wires and long-armed armies, we hear that this will greatly endanger our tourism. For your information on the markets is 20% more Germans, in Austria the first top destination after a long, long time. What could endanger tourism? Insecure, my lords, dear. Incident. We're playing 'cause you're obviously being chased by some kind of paranoia. I don't see any reason why you're putting in a third element today as a reason why this law doesn't have to be passed. It's completely wrong, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5850	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5851	Serious changes like this require serious debate. For a serious debate, a serious proposal needs to be made. We have been given changes to two articles with a card and a half of the arguments that are of nomotechnical administrative nature. From the opening statements we heard very, very smut of reasoning. And it's no wonder that the debate at certain times went in ways that we shouldn't have, to which we spent our own emotions and our own energy. But it actually brings the whole thing back to our colleague, Boric, we're not going to be smarter here than each other and return the whole thing to the fact that we don't have a reason for this legislative initiative. The fact that someone says it's in the atmosphere, that it's in the air or that it feels it's unfortunately not enough. And that raises the suspicion that tomorrow someone will think for what reasons they can use this law and this legal solution. Especially if we make our own contribution to the atmosphere. And that the border areas of Slavonia, Baranja, Posavia, Banije, Like are falling apart. Yesterday we heard a debate about that if the election units were the county that Lika would have the right to an MP. Why? Well, because there aren't any more people out there. And they're not at our border. And instead of dealing with these structural issues we're dealing with this, we're strengthening a little muscle. Well, that takes gyms enough, not Parliament and not laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5852	Thank you. Deputy Minister Ivić also answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Pupovac, you said, among other things, that these two laws also take away certain powers of the Croatian Parliament. The powers of the Armed Forces are clearly defined by the Defence Act. And the Law on Defence clearly provides for the responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament, which are the responsibilities of the Croatian Government, the President, the Minister, etc. By the fact that the Defense Act distinguishes the use of the Armed Forces and the use of the Armed Forces. The use of the Armed Forces refers to the state of war, the state of emergency, the operation of Croatian Armed Forces across the border, etc. In that case, the decision to use the Armed Forces shall be taken by the Croatian Parliament, by the President of the Republic, by the Prime Minister and by the defence minister in accordance with the law. This is Article 46. A decision on the use of the Armed Forces and the use of the Armed Forces refers to peacetime, of course the government of the Republic of Croatia or the defence minister, in accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act. So this is not about any detachment of the Croatian Parliament's powers, but the provisions of this Defence Act are consistently applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5854	My colleagues and colleagues will write down your replicas but we will continue after the break, continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5855	Vice-President, since we are having a united debate with one remark or remark. On behalf of the promoter of the Ministry of Defence, there is no one on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. I'd like to ask you at 3 p.m. for either the Deputy Minister of the Interior or the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5856	We just broke up, he had to go to a government meeting, and that's why this is the breakup. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. We'll write down your replicas and continue at 15.00 hours. It's 13:45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:15 A.M.]] We have several left behind replicas, so first of all, the distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5858	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My replica refers to the presentation of Assistant Minister Ivic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5859	The replica was to present Mr. Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5860	No, no, to the Deputy Minister, he was the last one to speak. Looks like it wasn't a good lunch. First, I would like to commend my colleague Orepic for managing the crisis perfectly, he continued a good path that has been paved by our Ranko Ostojić. And as for this bill of law to me, which I'm not very familiar with these changes in this way of the law, I see that it's some new policy where it's trying to change a law that's actually a constitutional category that needs a two-thirds majority to be here by a cosmetic change without some big analysis, how much a threat there is in society that I'm trying to change the constitutional category. If it were to go through a regular procedure, then this article 62a should have a two-thirds majority. I think before anything else this law would go into the process that one expert risk analysis should be carried out and then set out into a broader explanation for both the social community and our parliamentary representatives to make changes and changes to that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5861	The Deputy Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5862	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. In my last address, I haven't talked about it at all, and I don't know what you're replicating. I, when I spoke, spoke of powers under the Law of Defence because my colleague Pupovac said that through this law we were taking power from the Croatian Parliament. I have denied it and said that the Defence Act has clearly determined the competences of the state bodies, including the Parliament and the Government, the President of the Republic, or the President of the Republic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5863	Please don't start again. Why... [[I'm entitled to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Well, I'll just tell him for a little while.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5864	You read the articles I listened carefully and later read them. So you said the articles. But when, you quoted the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5865	You said you felt that such a decision should be changed by a two-thirds majority, okay, that's your right as an agent but talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5866	He said, he said he didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5867	Please don't start the afternoon part now. with injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[Invadica Penic: And he said in which articles he then went to the border.]] I ask you to refrain because I will not allow anyone else to be harmed by the Rules of Procedure so as not to give up those white ones in advance. Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister when you spoke of the justification for the adoption of amendments to the Defence Act, you then called for Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states in paragraph 11, calls for Articles 17 and 101. Now, to justify this situation, I have not noticed either from the address of Minister Orepic or from the statements he made during this migrant crisis that the MUP is unable to handle that part of the job alone. So, in order to apply Article 101, which, where Article 7 of the Constitution calls for amendments to the law, the justification of the then State Authority, in this case the Ministry of State, in order for the military to also come to the borders, must prove that it is not capable of carrying out that part, rather than by amending the law, you predict that such a situation may occur in order for that to happen. Furthermore, Article 101 provides for constitutional justification for the involvement of the Armed Forces for political assistance, then automatically the president of the Republic of Croatia is given additional powers to convene government meetings and to adopt regulations by legal force with the co-signator of the Prime Minister. Namely, no one has anything against it and the Constitution means the military can, under certain circumstances, be on the border, create certain things of humanitarian character. However, this is what we are all over the debate to highlight the issue of constitutionality and the articles of the Constitution that you are referring to in these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5869	Thank you. The Deputy Minister has his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5870	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, no one has said that the Croatian police are unable to monitor the situation but we are afraid of the possibility and situation that police forces will not be enough to manage the whole situation. When talking about Article 101, Article 101 refers to the duration of the war. And in the event of direct threat, independence and the unique existence of the state. So it's a very different situation than the one we're proposing by supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5871	Thank you. I don't think there's a representative of the Glavas who checked in. If he's not here, then the last replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5872	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Minister, in your address, you spoke about the parts of the Defense Act, the part that applies and which speaks of the use of the Armed Forces and the other part. Therefore, the use of the Armed Forces from Articles 47 to 57 and the use and assistance of the Armed Forces are Articles 58 to 64. So, I think I just have to try to figure out why we're even going to change the Defense Act. You assume that refugees, a refugee wave that could eventually happen again would be something that would directly endanger sovereignty, territorial integrity or I don't know what, national security of Croatia. Therefore, it is an article 48 which says, "In the event of a situation of immediate threat, the President of the Republic may, with the subsignation of the Prime Minister, order the use of the Armed Forces even though no war is declared." Since you obviously can't put this refugee crisis under this article of the direct threat of the Republic of Croatia, because it obviously won't be a refugee crisis, then you go to the addition of the law and you refer to articles of the Constitution. But I must tell you that article 17. The constitution is very clear. If any decisions are taken that relate to the sending of the army to the borders without being a state of war without direct threat to the territory, then the decision must be taken by two-thirds of the parliamentary representatives, not by the Law on Defence, or by the Law on the Control of State Borders, where the majority is sufficient. So, two-thirds of the MPs. So, on the one hand, we won't change the Constitution for that, of course, but on the other hand, gentlemen, it means that two-thirds of the parliamentary deputies must raise their hands for these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5873	Will you? The Deputy Minister has his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5874	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Representative, this is exactly what you said in article 48, but this is not about the direct threat of the Republic. This is about wanting to put under the control of the state border in the sense that there are no illegal entry into the border. It's not a direct threat to the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5875	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the replicas. Let me tell you that we have a lot of exposure on behalf of clubs, individual exposure almost a large majority of clubs and representatives, to you who are here, and then please don't be as many replicas as there were in the morning session. Because as the president said yesterday, then we'll welcome breakfast here. So let's start with the next show. So, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5876	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs, MPs. The first thing I want to say here is somehow it seems to me and I'm not happy about the safety of this Croatia, our homeland that we share ourselves or you. The security system of our Croatia is all together we have developed and thank God we all together can be proud of our security system. And for all of us, we must have some responsibility to somehow try to be superseded when we say safety. And we must all fight responsibly together so that our Croatia, which we have suffered by the heavy sacrifice of a huge number of people in Croatia, has been given to protect it, to protect that safety, to protect our families. And that is why it really offends me when I hear the Croatian Army here or that we should be afraid of the Croatian Army or that not some way that the Croatian Army will not give God tomorrow a coup. It's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, I've been called what I've been through this debate, soldiers, officers, officers. I can't understand that. So they'll never do anything and never do anything against their people and against their country. They will only protect us as they have protected us. Now that I look at our police force, which we can also be proud of. Well, we also saw in our Homeland War as we did. Well, we worked together our cop, our soldier, and other elements of the security system, so they worked together. So even now, through this refugee crisis, how did they work? They worked together. And what is this now? This is a modern deterrent measure for me that other countries are doing. So you've seen NATO have a detergent... means modern deterrent measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm looking at NATO used to seeing you now in that situation so the army's headed to the Mediterranean. And NATO is now helping Turkey, Greece with its forces. So you know that the Croatian ship was also in the Mediterranean. I don't see any reason why we can't tomorrow, clearly our police have a responsibility for our border, but if my minister says he needs something extra, so why isn't it ready? So why isn't this legal procedure ready? So why should that registrator that will regulate everything completely so that no one does anything against the standards of democratic society, against human rights, so that these guys have time to practice it all and prepare it all in one professional modern way. And from that smart state, the modern state prepares itself in that variant. And from that part of the HDZ Club, it unequivocally supports this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Defence and Completion of the Law on the Control of the State Border, which allows for the sending of the army to the border. Once again, I underline, of course, the need for humanitarian action and to assist the police forces of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal clearly points out that these amendments to the law will allow the Armed Forces to assist police in monitoring the state border in the event of a need, as a consequence of the EU's migration crisis. Challenges faced by uncontrollable inflows of refugees and migrants are described as a first-class humanitarian issue while for the second, it is a first-class security issue. So we must, as we have led so far, continue to take care of each other and prepare to do so. The fact is that Europe faces a serious crisis that causes tensions between member states. It is more than evident that the EU has set itself in solving this crisis for full compliance with Schengen rules as the basis for starting to solve the problem. In this way, it aims to stop and reduce illegal migration and at the same time preserve the integrity of the Schengen area. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia must protect its borders, as well as the EU's external borders. The establishment of full and determined supervision of Croatian state borders implies enhanced border control for additional forces, which should open up the possibility of supporting police in the protection of the state border and eliminating possible threat to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And just possible threats to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia suggest the need for a different approach to security issues of the Croatian state and society today. And when I see today based on this debate how much energy we spend, not going in, we need this diversity, we need these different views because from them can come out of me always something good, when I watch how much we spend on something small, and we need people for a new time, for the new threats that are present today, we need to redefine the entire security system so that it can deal with these new threats and threats that are present here in Croatia. We saw some countries preparing only for war or defense against aggression. But what do we have today? So today we have these unconventional threats, terrorism, cyber crisis, refugee crisis, economic crisis, natural disasters. Well, we saw the floods, the fire. Well, you've seen these crisis events that have tested our country's ability to provide security to the people who needed it at that given moment. So we're dealing with the consequences today, and Gunja, we're dealing with the consequences of Kornath, and we're aware of it, we're talking about it for a month behind what thelessson learns, which are taught lessons. Did we change anything? That's why I'm saying that we need to redefine if we want to deal with all these systems of response to these threats and all those risks. Clearly, taking into account the first and basic security of our Croatia, the safety of our people, but making sure that this security system is modern, that it is comprehensive, that it is rational, that it is effective and that we respect all the standards that we need to respect in order for this system to deliver results. Because as far as security is concerned, believe me, they're getting more complicated and they're looking for a real strategy to deal with all of this. And I think the time has come for us all to be faster and more ready together than any who pose a threat to our Croatia. In this sense, our systems must also be more proactive and have predictive capabilities, have prevention capabilities and I believe on this trail that these proposed legal solutions, which means joint work to the united forces, the united forces of our police force, the united forces of our military, the victorious Croatian military, the united forces of our security and intelligence system, the united forces of our civil protection, the combined forces of our local administration, the Mountain Rescue Service, the fire departments to respond to these threats and risks. But that's not enough, either, because it's a new paradigm of security. We need new concepts of security. We must include our citizens in that new system. They can help us a lot, we need to be open with them, we need to share information, we need to include the private sector because there's a lot of security in the private sector. Now that's a new modern system, a system of homeland security. We had the Homeland War, all together we can be proud of, it is the foundation of a modern Croatian state. We are going after a new time, new threats, new risks to make a modern, comprehensive, integrated, democratically supervised system that will protect the safety of our people, our family, our Croatia. Thank you. So much for me, here I am and I was shorter, we have a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5877	Yes, you've cut short, but it seems to me that my call to no replicas has been used otherwise. All right, let's take it in a row. The first one came from a respected representative, Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5878	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Krstičević, you said that you and I are sharing today. And you said that national security should be superseded. We do not share in you and me and I when it comes to national security that we are all one single Croatia and that we are all ready to plant our backs to ensure the national interest and security and sovereignty of this country. There's no division between us and you. You're also saying the minister says he needs something, and I need to give it to him in order to ensure the safety of this country. Yes, of course, but a minister like me and all citizens of this Croatia must respect the Constitution and the laws of this country. So we're just calling for the respect of the Constitution. Synergy and joint work by all state bodies in response to a security threat. Yes, of course we will encourage it, but still in accordance with the Constitution. If constitutional solutions are to be changed and additional powers and powers are to be given to the military, then we must change that in the constitutional procedure. But we are to ensure the safety and national interests of this country. It is our opinion, as we have said, of what has been orally presented to us by the government's representatives that no changes to the law are needed because the military has provided logistical assistance to the police so far along the border. If you want something else, new or... If there's anything else you want and a new one, tell us openly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for insulting you to talk about a coup, I must say that I am truly deeply convinced that the Croatian army will not make a coup, nor that this government would ask the military to do so. He won't. That's quite clear. But the whole history, the political history of the human race is full of examples of how the military was abused as the strongest physical force. Whether it was done by kings while they had executive power until the army... Whether they were working tyrants and autocrats [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Downstairs: Thank you.]] [[Downstairs: Time's up.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5879	We're going to have to be a little stricter with time because so many replicas are going to Yes, it is. [[Intruder Klisovic: But I don't think I've exhausted my time for...]] I'm really gonna watch out because we really have a lot of replicas right now. [[Intruder Klisovic: Then I apologize.]] Here's a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Damir Krstičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5880	Dear counterpart Klisovic this "we" or "you" I still want in this honourable Parliament that it is not and must not be. It means "me" and "you" one more time. So to be together and to be safe above, it would have to be above all of us. And our assignment here is to all of us sitting together in this hall, the parliamentary representatives to make it possible for "your", "my" Home Secretary, the defence minister to do their job quality. And our Croatia to be safe. I'm also convinced these legal proposals, meaning absolute respect for laws, regulations, the Constitution and all that is necessary. But I want to give them tools, clearly that it must be supervised always by taking care of the highest standards that they do their job and that they have the breadth of the answer at a given time. You see that today, it's so unpredictable. It's today, these threats, the risks are so different. You really have to be ready and you have to have width. It's like chess, like how we're at war move A, you move B. He move C, D. So, they must, Croatia has a system that has bloody built thanks to all of us and we have to adapt it, we have to change it to always be professional and modern.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5881	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Krstičević, you have rightly warned that in the modern world we are exposed to new threats to security, new threats, but also that we have neither politics nor the National Security Strategy, and that the existing system to say mildly simply is not able, is not so designed that it can meet these new challenges. For example, you said we were exposed to this new cyber terrorism, organised cyber crime, etc. We simply have no answer to that, nor are we so organized. However, it is surprising here that even in a hypothetical and less hypothetical sense, there is talk of militarisation, the use of the military, the endangerment of the political system, and that there is no parallel to France that carried out the military in Paris when it was a terrorist attack, that Americans and the National Guard use whenever they have these threats, so no one there is talking about the militarisation of society, the endangerment of democracy, but they are talking about national security. Thus, such a position and such simple conduct means that we are very far from it, aware of the need for national security, of modern threats, and of modern models of solving these threats. And among other things, that's why we're here economically because we don't understand these basic things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5883	Thank you. The next line of honor, please? Yes, sir, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5884	Mr. Tudjman, you've asked a great question about the national security strategy. Here, we are in this House that brings that strategy. Can you believe all together that our Croatia has a 2002 strategy? Not now entering the continuity of each other in power both HDZ and SDP. Is that a problem to make? We have also entered NATO in the meantime, we have entered the EU in the meantime. It's a basic strategic document. So before this concept, a new concept of modern concept of response. So, this strategy has to say these are our national interests, these are the strategic goals that we have to do, these are the threats and risks that modern Croatian society faces today, and then rank them and rank them all the time because the threats and risks are variable. And beyond that, under the number three of these abilities we need in our internal affairs, in our defenses, in our security intelligence system, in our protection and rescue. Then go my ministers, do their strategic papers that will tell us about these abilities they need that human, material and financial resources they need us to make. Now that's one system, that's one strategy we advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5885	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5886	Dear colleague Krstičević, first of all to you both as a soldier and as a general of honor and thanks. However, there is no discussion here about the military or the police, and we don't really need to share, we have a unanimous opinion of both the military and the police of our pride. But here's the thing, it's a matter of politics and constitutionality. The constitution strictly controls and says when an army can be used in civil terms, especially in combat. So I will read it again: "The armed forces can if this requires the nature of the executioner to be used to assist the police and other state bodies and strictly under the conditions laid down in Articles 17 and 101." Thus, the Constitution envisioned all possibilities when the military could provide such assistance. If you say this part where the minister himself says, his assistants say they're not foreseen. And you're talking about it, and then we also have a way out on the basis of the Constitution that says if the situations in which you spoke unpredictably, which come to a threat, that's what the article 17 decides, and that's what the Croatian Parliament decides to do to the two-thirds majority. So there's no way to give a legal opportunity for such ad hoc operations without the Parliament deciding on it. Such opportunities come directly from the Constitution pursuant to Article 17 and are decided by the Croatian Parliament. And one more thing, pals, that's not what you're talking about here, and that's good. However, I think you will agree with me as I have agreed with everything except in this part of you that it is not the same to compare these people in serious trouble where children in plowshares are washed with acts of terrorism that happened in France. And I think it's really inappropriate. However, I would like to remind you just one sentence please allow Refugees are our brothers and sisters who seek a home far from their own, a culture of warmth and compassion, brotherhood and solidarity. [[Indica Podolnjak: You will have more exposure throughout.]] Indica Podolnjak: You will still have a full exposure. And you've got more exposure if I'm not mistaken. That's not what I said. That's what our church fathers said, starting with Cardinal Pulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5887	Dear MPs, as far as I know, you still have the exposure after this replica. Please! ... Please, but I've said you'll hear from me, so you'll also have individual discussions. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So there's no need for these 15 seconds. You've got another individual debate for 10 minutes, so you're in time to say all this stuff you wanted to say. These 15 seconds really didn't take anymore. ... Please, please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replica reply, MP Damir Krstičević. ... Please, it turns out this is it, please! ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, MPs, please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5888	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, I appreciate that part of what you said at the beginning about us not discussing the military and the police. We're discussing legal proposals. In these legal proposals, clearly what, so thank God we're a democratic state, you have one look, I have another view. I am from the position of the man who was safe in that system and I know about, you are in another way at it, I want to give to my minister, the other minister all the tools that they can ensure the safety of our Croatia. And it's my job now as a parliamentary representative because I know they have to have those tools. And these tools, these legal proposals make it possible for them. The other thing, as far as migrants are concerned, it's people. Well, in our Homeland War, we cared very much about these people. So, and now in this whole situation, full human solidarity, respect for all these people. Those people know me as a man who respects all these people, I respect these differences. But everything has to have a system, a procedure, a regulation, and even this is good for those migrants that we also take care of their safety. So other countries have done it, other modern states are doing it, I don't see any reason why our Croatia can't upgrade that story, and that it can be ready for what is waiting for us if we need a system that can react.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5889	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5890	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear fellow general, you have detected the problem in the name of the club in detail you have explained the decision-making procedure as to how decisions are made. Some colleagues later in the debate said that there are some new threats other than the ones we are discussing and on the basis of which we plan to make decisions. But you have later avoided the decision-making procedure because you are without a concrete analysis and a threat that threatens the Republic of Croatia which is not made by this competent authority, which is proposed by law without a clear explanation of what will be done in the case and what are the elements of the handling of these and these threats, means, without a detailed explanation of how you act on behalf of the HDZ Club, you are saying that you will support this proposal. And before that, you told yourself in the elements of the decision-making precisely in detail how it was supposed to be done. There's a contradiction. So it wasn't done the way it was supposed to be done to start first by analysing the factors or the causes of possible threats to the RS security system, then what are the forces that we have at our disposal. We know that we have between 40 and 50 years from a system of intelligence communities of people with authority to act, retired police officers and an active intelligence community system. You've got 20,000 cops and we've got these 16 that's 36. So there are forces that could have been involved in defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. It's just that the procedure isn't respected. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5891	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5892	Dear fellow Penic, I respect what you said. But now I'm setting up... or I suppose because you think that former Prime Minister Milanovic when he was dealing with this challenge the same way, when he was making decisions about police engagements and Mr. former Minister Ostojic, and after that they included the Croatian army because they needed to help them in the humanitarian section, so clearly that they made decisions based on some assessments. [[You don't understand.]] Do you think they made decisions ad hoc, remember? So are these people sitting there right now, and here's the Home Secretary, or the Secretary of Defense, and the Prime Minister and this system of ours, do you think they'd make any decisions again without any procedure, without any analysis? The other thing is, what you're saying is there are people. Well, there are people, you know how we've made the transition of these people, not coming in now who's to blame. But to invite these people, there needs to be a system. Our system of security, we're talking about a system of national security, not by any act, the regulation is not defined as a system, not certain elements of that system. And that's why I advocate, we advocate, systematically, that through the system all together in one modern way we deal with these threats that are present today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5893	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5894	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Krstičević, therefore I respect your thinking and attitudes as a soldier, general, so a participant of direct war events. However, I believe that endangerment is a kind of threat to national security, and if you are the executive authority, whoever you are is in it and whoever is at the helm gives you the right to try to avoid clear constitutional provisions. In fact, sending an army to the border cannot be a fruit of anyone's own decision or decision by two or three people if it is not a state of war, and we agree that if it is not a state of direct threat and we agree that it is not and that the refugee crisis cannot be and it is expressed from this pay phone on behalf of the motionor. Then, according to the Constitution, the decision must be taken by this Croatian Parliament by two-thirds of the majority. And in order for him to make a decision, then it is the task of the executive to prepare an analysis, they will, if they have not prepared it, prepare it, and in case it comes to this House having to decide, be without worry, we all know what decisions should be made then. And there's no need to be afraid. In my opinion, if it's not logistics like it was during this great refugee corridor, if it's not humanitarian character, forgive me, it means tomorrow you can go to the border, because that's how two people decided to leave an armed soldier and start lifting your wire. I think this House must decide in accordance with the Constitution because so is the provision of the Constitution, the two-thirds majority. That's where we differ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5895	Thank you. Replication response. No, you don't. Then we'll go to the next replica, the distinguished representative of Ante County. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5896	Sir... I highly appreciate your prominent volunteering which you have shown and it is the impression that you are actually trying to explain the matter way of removing the misunderstandings in our conversations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's here, we're turning to refugees who've gone 650,000 without a problem. But these refugees walked a highly defined path where they were waiting for them wide open doors in Germany, and we, if we wanted to stop, would not have stopped in our country. And here we have a balloon that is getting bigger in Greece, the European countries have mostly closed those borders, and it's only a matter of when that balloon will break. So when he cracks, it automatically means "uncontrollable." And uncontrollably on our vast zone of borders, we know what they are and how they are, it is inevitably pointing to security and attention, that means aid that can be very realistically shown as necessary to our police. So I don't see why there's such a problem. Tourism is mentioned as a risk of endangering it, it will be more endangered if there is no such protection. There is a reference to legal irregularity, here we have interpretations, people are quoting the legal basis of one of these acts and the other and the opposite. They'll state eventually the Constitutional Court. So in this case, getting people out on the border is just an assist to our police not to give God a big run-in of exiles or trouble to stop. And we know that the epicenter in the Middle East that was never there was a simple crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5897	Thank you. Time's up, thanks. The reply to the replica Damir Krstičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5898	Dear fellow Mayor, so that's exactly what it is now over, what it is, and I keep saying, means through all these legal proposals, so we're preparing as a state that we can react in a modern, transparent, professional way to these threats, threats that are there and that are changing. And we need to adjust the system so we can react. Who could have thought it would be September 11th? Who could have thought something unimaginable could have happened? But it happened. Who could have thought, so here's the day they're dealing with the consequences in Norwegian society, that the Breivik case will happen. Therefore, our system that we must upgrade because this year 2016 is clear through laws and regulations and procedures must respond to these modern threats and risks. And that our people in the system can manage the process, that we can investigate threats and risks. And that we can do what's most important to prevent, prevent harmful events from happening to us. Then you know the consequences. Maybe we could have reacted in Gunya a day before. How much would we save financially and human it all together, and we're not. That's what we need to do and learn from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5899	Thank you. The next is Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will in order to save time include my replica in my debate on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5901	Thank you very much. I would like to appeal that a similar example is followed by some of the other representatives who have been exposed to the follow-up of this session. The next replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5902	Dear counterpart Krstičević, you say we need to redefine the security system, we need new concepts, we need to include our citizens, we need to include civil society, we need a new Security Strategy. I totally agree with you, so why didn't you come with that Security Strategy? Four years in opposition, you had time to prepare. You said you were completely ready for power. Well, if the government had come with the Security Strategy, we'd have something to talk about here. Well, you're not gonna tell me these two laws are a new security strategy. No, they cannot be brought on the basis of an existing 2002 Security Strategy, as they predict the use of the army against civilians at the border. Because those refugees that are coming are civilians. You say these laws serve the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And what are those refugees going to occupy us for? Those crying children that parents carry on our backs came to occupy us so we had to use the army against them. You say they went through legal crossings, and now what if they go in illegally? So if they go in illegally, the army will shoot those kids. So they won't even stay here, they don't want to stay here, they just want to pass. Well, they're people who run from death, from danger. And what will you do with the army against those crying children? You say it's a defense of sovereignty. I don't see any threat to sovereignty, but I see a threat to democracy. If the authority belonging to the Parliament belongs to the Constitution, you give the executive authority to send without any analysis without a decision by the Parliament an army to the border against civilians. It's deeply non-democratic, it's deeply counter-constitutional and it's excused civilizedly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5903	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Krstičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5904	Dear fellow Stazic, here to speed up the debate and to save time I will not answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5905	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I'd like to read after the replica. I'm canceling an individual debate, a contribution to your wish. And as for the replica, respected counterpart Krsticevic, I also think that all security aspects of national and national security should be considered and predicted. There's no problem between us. It is not a disputed engagement of the military, but strictly according to the prescribed procedure and strictly, strictly within the frameworks of the delirquents and powers. A very strict army. The army's not up for ad hoc decisions. You know that as an experienced man. You're a representative here, so I won't mention anything else for a principled reason. So, I think, not us, I think we should consider security, we should also allow the army to participate in protection and borders when the need arises, but who can decide. In my court, we must not extend our powers to anyone. And if it were to be proposed by changing the Constitution, I would be against it, not just by law. That's why I think it's very important that we keep the humanitarian action of the army at the interpretation of the Constitution as it has been so far. And we used the army in humanitarian action, and we made it possible for the military to be commanded by the police. As a civilian, as an ordinary citizen, I'm not looking forward to it. I'm not looking forward to it. I ask that aspects, aspects of security be taken into account, and do not doubt that there will be party disciplines if you convince us that national security or security is seriously at stake, even the borders. But give it to me according to procedure. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5907	Since you've given up an individual debate, we allow tolerance to all those who report for replication and give up individual exposure. I'll tolerate it if I need one minute. Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5908	Dear colleague Leko, I fully agree with what you said. The goal for all of us is to have a system that is very important that our army, which we all together have created together, is value and that it is a lasting value for all of us and that we are proud of it and that it is our task to never, ever, ever be the instrument of any political option, but that it always fulfils that fundamental constitutional task. As for the extension of powers I don't see it either, I believe through these laws, I don't see that they're there again to spread powers. Therefore, this is all in function so that we can prepare ourselves and have the deterrent measures that are necessary. And who will to whom at a given moment in this case is the soldier, or policeman, who is the bearer of that activity. But that depends, look, I was in the army, sometimes a tanker is my carrier and my foot helps him, and sometimes the scout is my carrier and this one helps him. I mean I'm at a given moment means it depends on the task of doing it in the best possible way, to preserve human lives, and at this point I believe that this and I believe that our soldier will be as proud as the boredom of working with our police.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5909	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Regardless of your appeal, I will briefly, although I do not have an individual debate, so I cannot give up, but I answered because I believe that my colleague Krstičević actually spoke excellently about the problem and the topic that affects us, which is around us. And he also opened a whole series of discussions that very well point to that thin line between national security, the protection of democracy and this concept of humanity that we must also defend. And it's a shame that we don't have this kind of debate anymore and it shows actually the need and desire of the MPs to and in this way, by removing the differences that exist between political parties discussing these topics. Perhaps a different light would then be cast on the Croatian Parliament, on our Parliament, if we were to discuss other topics in this way not only of this. You mentioned colleague Krstičević's new threat, new security and geopolitical paradigm, new concepts of security. Well, that's reality, that's happening around us. You mentioned the 9/11 terrorist attacks in the U.S. via Norway. So who could have imagined a year ago that we would have a refugee situation like this. Remember the 8th and 9th months when we warned that perhaps we should act preventively already and we were exposed, those who mentioned it, the ugliest possible insults, from being fascists, chauvinists, that we don't care as much as we do today, the fellow Stazic unfortunately repeats for small children, that we don't care about the human aspects of this crisis. We don't care about that very much. But counterpart Stazic is not the only one in Croatia that will allow the military to go to the borders, watch other countries, Austria, Slovenia, these are all democratic states. So there's some reason, there's probably intelligence data and estimates that point to real danger. We have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5911	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Yeah. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5912	Dear colleague Mr. Jandrokovic, so here's all you've said are these discussions, meaning democratic debates. I think we need all of them together to make sure it's on that level. And as for the security of people, we need to get rid of ourselves, I say again respecting the law, respecting democracy, but I've been at school for the last three months in Germany at the strategic center for security studies in... That's where they taught me, says let's think the unthinkable. [[You don't understand.]] So, think of some unimaginable things that might happen to you. And you have to change, you have to adapt, you have to be faster. And he says we all have one problem together. And what problem is that I say? So it says a regular way of thinking. And so we have to take a step to get rid of that kind of regular way of thinking. It's an experience needed to make that system good, modern, adaptable. And in that part, we need to change the security system. And if our opposition were in power now, you'd do the same. We have to do it so we can handle it, clearly with the law, regulation, procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5913	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5914	Dear colleague Krstičević has nothing to add to your speech, and there is nothing to be taken away from. I commend your call to the community, but I am very sad that, apart from the distinguished representative Leka, such an impeccable speech was subject to certain criticisms. Today, when our national security system and our complete national security system have become obsolete, when we do not have an adequate National Security Strategy, we are still not showing one community, we are riding on a wave of populism and we are using ourselves in today's debate of elements of the coup and the execution of tanks on the streets to collect certain political points. On the other hand, we have examples I would dare say, obviously, and in more modern countries than our homeland, we have an example that in Brussels, in the center of Brussels the military and the police come out to protect their citizens. We have examples in Slovenia, in a country in which there is a centrist option, a moderate option where the army goes to the border without a problem and protects its citizens, protects the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia. And lastly, I would ask a hypothetical question, although I support Mr. Lek and I think that he has well absorbed perhaps some of the shortcomings in this bill, and I agree, there is a need to be more careful, but I think Mr. Krstičević has already referred to that as hypothetically happening that we really have a certain problem that we didn't expect as much today as we would look at how we're discussing how long it would take us all to get together, to agree and to really send the army to protect the citizens of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5915	Thank you. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5916	Well, here's to making the same thing faster, I totally agree with my colleague Hrebak. Here's the responsibility of all of us, and in that part of it, here's the support of everything you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5917	Thank you. The next one has the word of a respected representative, Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also refer to the presentation of the distinguished representative Krstičević. I would like to point out that he had a great debate on national security and new threats that lie ahead of both Croatia and other European and world countries, especially major cities and metropolis. And what I wanted to appeal to, and I fully agree with Mr Krstičević, Mr. Hrebak and everyone who discussed in this direction that we should not share in these topics on us or on them. We must be unique because the safety of our country is ahead of everyone, any small particular political, internal issues and interests. And surely, all of us must certainly be the main and primary objective of keeping our borders. In some special, specific situations, as our neighbours do among other things, such as Slovenia, Hungary, Austria. What I would certainly like to point out here is what we have sent to the public today, which was sent by SDP representatives, especially Agent Stazic, a state coup. People will think about what's going on, what's going to happen tomorrow in Croatia. Then tanks, shooting children, army against civilians, army against small children. So as you have the courage, so as you have the courage to send such a message to people, spread fear, allow it, respect that I have listened to you, so let me exercise my right to replication. Mr. Vice President, please allow me the basis of the Rules of Procedure to complete my replica. I'd like to ask you nicely. ... Thank you very much for understanding. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Very short. Imagine, imagine what message you sent to the Croatian public today. Why? Because such proposals come from a position, from the Croatian government, from a government that cares about the protection of our country's national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5919	Thank you. For a while, we had this discussion quite calmly. It seems to me again that I need to warn a little yes, please. I suggest that today no one is using the words of a coup, please, on either side of the left or right, because those words then have an emotional effect on all of you, I see, so please, it seems to me that they have a very flammable effect on the atmosphere. Please. Thanks, we're going on. Would you like to answer that? No need? Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5920	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Krstičević, I am afraid that with today's debate we have begun to frighten the Croatian public with our Croatian army. Here I am going to look around, so at the winter transit center in Slavonski Brod through which 350,000 migrants went through. The police here did a great job, even with some of the little incidents that were going on, with a quick police response, and that's settled. However, technical support in preparing this winter transit centre has been helped by our Croatian army. So here is why I really don't see why we scare the Croatian public with our Croatian army that defended us in those most difficult moments. I don't see who we're scaring here, who we're protecting, so I think it's the task of our Croatian police as well as the Croatian Army to protect all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who find themselves in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and of course I support this debate by our General Krstičević. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5921	Thank you. Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5922	Dear colleague Ljubica, I absolutely agree, and here is our responsibility, most of all, for ministers to have what they need in order for the system to react in the best possible way. Once again, I want to repeat, only by combined action, only by united action we can today respond to the threats and risks facing Croatia. And that's what all modern developed countries in the West do. In that direction, here I think Croatia is going too, that's certainly good. And I believe we can certainly be proud of that. And I believe that our security system will respond and will adapt to all these threats, clearly keeping everything that is good, all that is good so far because it is continuity. Security requires continuity, stability and change. And he's looking for new abilities. And I believe the ministers have recognized what we need in order for these new abilities to be achieved and that they, these new abilities, are needed to deal with these threats and risks that are there.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5923	Thank you. The next one has the word of Honorable representative Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5924	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representative Krstic, if anyone in this assembly is relevant for the debate on this topic and on this legislative proposal, then you will. And your relevance comes not only from your great war route, on which you have certainly met with very high crisis situations, but also from yours, as you yourself have mentioned for a little while the continuous and continuous improvement in world military universities that certainly have a smart and well-developed education on this plan, which you as a representative in the Croatian Parliament can apply to the circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is present. In that sense, not only did you offer in your debate a number of well-founded arguments to accept this legislative proposal from the Croatian Government but you also offered solutions and reasons for why and how to do so. I sincerely hope that after this debate of yours today that we will go in a different direction without further politicizing this topic, and here we can already see that on the side of the opposition's representatives, positive signals are coming and that we will actually understand your debate as being well-intentioned and exclusively in the function of our country's security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5925	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5926	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Krstičevic, I support your speech entirely because it clearly shows differences in the debate between us in the opposition and the gentlemen in the opposition. You're a professional soldier, a man who was wounded in the Homeland War, and if I'm sure of something, I'm sure he would never do anything or raise his hand for something that would harm both the Homeland and his own country. It's something some might not understand. Listening to today's discussion of colleagues on the other hand, it is clear that there are two concepts. Their concept is the system they advocate, and that's the improvisation system, let's wait for what happens, and then we'll react. We heard, we'll call the Parliament in three hours and we'll respond. It's their concept, but he's nothing but what they've been doing for four years, those were their methods. Try, mistake, correction and repeat through law, through activity, through decisions. What we advocate, what you have clearly said is a smart state system that is constantly preparing for every possible threat and which gives opportunities in advance, means in advance, and these are these two legislative proposals. We hear we don't have an analysis. Gentlemen on the other hand would like to know what SOA knows, what the top of the police knows, what the most responsible people in the army know. They should know all that as Parliamentarians and then be able to make decisions. I don't want us to be worse than them. This is what you all represent together. The state of smart state, and when we talk about the abuses of the Croatian Army and their resources, a single man has done so here among us in the Croatian Parliament, he has abused the resources of the Croatian Army to drive it around the Brijuni Islands, and none of us have done so, and I do not believe that these legal proposals foresee it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5927	Thank you. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5928	Dear fellow Boric, exactly what you said, means the solution is always, always to be able to deal with threats and risks is a system. And I believe that on that trail is this solution. And what's very important through that system is prevention, so prevention is very important. Let's do some things. I know it's not easy, but let's always try some things it's one process, it requires a lot of knowledge, it requires a lot of new abilities, and I'm convinced the Minister of Interior and in our defense that they have it. Let's go through these abilities, through one system to act preventively so that we give that security to our people always and that we keep trying to upgrade it and that we have to constantly change, change, change these systems. But I say always making sure that laws, regulations, procedures are always as well as we should build on our abilities so that legal procedures must be upgraded to control, means all capabilities for our country, our Croatia always to be safe and desirable for all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5929	Thank you. The last replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5930	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Krstičevic, you called for unity in your debate. And I'm going to say briefly what it is that we all agree on and from which, from which you have had your debate is a priority. Therefore, the security of citizens and protection and the security and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia has no question about it. I believe most colleagues are here and we all agree on that. In the end, there are also representatives of the competent ministries, so also the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, who are also in charge of protecting sovereignty and security. Then we also agreed, many colleagues in the debate or in the replicas said the police did their job well in this crisis. And I'm proud as a Croatian citizen of the police on one side of security reasons, on the other hand humanitarian. And in this sense, Croatia did not defile its cheek, and in this crisis it was truly dignified and it was done not only by Croatian police, Croatian military, but also by many volunteers and many institutions. Then what's the problem or the catch? Here are three points about what and what I think here today from the debate. In light of this law, the ministry or prime minister writes that if they assess the need for security or humanitarian reasons to send an army to the border. My colleagues here have warned it might have been better if the proposal for this law had been a risk assessment. That we actually had instructions or elements to assess that risk. The Constitution, and now, has been highlighted by colleagues, the Constitution and now enables such action by the military in Article 7. And thirdly, what we should not forget, and it is not good for our colleagues in the position to accuse us of it if we are to warn the opposition, we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, must also take care of civil society, and the Croatian Parliament as one of the largest democratic institutions in the Republic of Croatia must make sure that it has control over the military because only in this case can we prevent possible abuses and militarisation of society. I think I touched what I was about to say through those three points.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5931	Thank you. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5932	Dear colleague Sagar right here at the end, is this the last one? It is. Finally, I fully agree with what you said in the end. So, about the refugee crisis and what we've been dealing with, the sooner we're not going in, and we've done it. But you have to imagine I can't solve this situation like before. Everything that's good, but the process goes, things change. So this system of ours we have to adapt so that we can deal with these new things that are there. And this refugee, with all due respect to him, is different. I must adapt to this process so that this process of our Croatia's security is always at the highest level. Because this is the standard that Croatia has been in continuance with the development of the security system since '91. end of 2016, everyone in the continuity that we have set. Me and I want him to be the best. As far as civil society is concerned, so we want through this concept of homeland security, it's a proactive protection of our country, including a civilian component, we want to involve our citizens, we want to include our associations. So all together, we need this partnership for everyone's safety. Because only through this partnership can we ensure that our Croatia is always safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5933	Thank you. Next is the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5934	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, representatives of the Croatian government. We have two legal amendments before us, meaning the proposal of the Law on Defence and the Act on the Protection of the Croatian Border. Of course, when we talk about our emotions being heightened because we're talking about the Homeland War, about the people of the Homeland War who brought this Homeland War because national security is being abused with these key people that we can debate in the House today. I had to say this because, in the context of today's situation where we have expert studies of renowned world agencies saying that 700 million people, and that is also in materials, intend to migrate in various ways and because of various situations in Europe. Now we have a crisis in Syria, Iraq and that part of our globe. In this case, however, Croatia is not guilty of this crisis and of course we have two aspects of this crisis here. As Croatia must behave, we all talked about it. We have the means of humanitarian character and we have national security. When we talk about the humanitarian character, so who's watching those kids in the mud from either the left, the right, the center or our citizens' children in the mud, the child on the beach threw them out by the sea? Of course he wakes up regardless of the call of the bishops, the believers, the unbelievers, that man and his emotions will work and that he will say we must help these people. However, we also have the national security of our citizens, our borders. We have to keep to the border. If anyone is able to do this, they are together forces of the police and the Croatian military. The Croatian soldier was created in a difficult situation, when he was unarmed, when he was not equipped, when he demonstrated humanity both towards the enemy soldier and their population. I've been in a thousand situations like this, other people in several situations, personally in all operations. That is why this previous presentation, speech by General Krstičević, who has a tremendous experience not only as a warrior and as leader of a winning army, but as a man who is expert and competent to speak of this. That's why I'm honored and proud to be able to speak after that man. Because I was in the unit he commanded, and I know he's thinking well, soberly, and I know that the Croatian soldier on the Croatian border, the Croatian soldier is our pride, our dignity. I don't believe our sons who inherited us, our relatives will have the courage to undo something inhuman to anyone. The Croatian army must not be underestimated. It's extremely humane, that's true, it's the Croatian Army and through the Homeland War and after the Homeland War and especially now because they feel these people, because they've been through it, these young men are now mostly young but there are still people in the system that are from the Homeland War but in the ever smaller number. That's why national security, so the humanitarian character is unquestioned, won't go out on refugees with tanks, won't fight with machine guns because if it happened then it would be the end of the world if the Croatian soldier came out with a rifle, so which, so the system exists, the hierarchy exists, so these are our children raised like that. Security. The National Security and Defence Strategy has not been amended since 2002. Even it no longer mentions NATO because we came in after, in 2009, we entered. So all governments are both SDPs, so are HDZs. They absolutely didn't take care of national security. So even today, we don't have a school or some educational institution that's going to profile the people of Morh, the Armed Forces or the MUP to get to school, which achieve the results that they're going to be trained to be in national security rather than exclusively, to professionalise it, but only by political similarities. That's why we're also at risk of national security. National security must be purely professional. This can't happen, these cases are neither in Israel, nor in America. Of course that national security must have judgments, it must have preventions. And what tools? The tools are the Croatian Army, in this case, of course, that our border, which is 1,000km, will control, is now stopped by the Balkan Route. Who says they will not appear illegal in 5 places now, means illegal passes and of course the Croatian Army will join them and also in humanitarian, of course in humanitarian terms and meet the terms of the terms agreed, i.e. at European Union level. This is a big and huge problem. Big problem. That the Parliament is meeting on this. So now imagine I remember in the war, someone was telling me wartime operations were when they said the Parliament had to decide when the operation would begin. That's impossible. Maybe now these people are sitting in Parliament, I can't remember, I didn't follow politics, I was in the field. The Croatian Army and the Armed Forces are extremely human. And in the end, I would still say that we need to change, bring a new strategy, so to you from the ministries, i.e. I speak from the government, change strategy and bring new strategy. Croatia has no national security and defence strategy, i.e. Since 2002, circumstances have changed completely. So we have to bring it. And I trust the Croatian soldier, I trust the Croatian policeman and in the name of the MOST club this is saying that this crisis will be brought out in the best, most humane and most professional way and all in the interest of protecting our citizens, our economy, a set of images we will leave to the world and Europe. The club of the Independent Lists will support these legal changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5935	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first has a respected representative, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5936	Dear colleague, you say at the beginning of your presentation, the fears of abuse of this issue of national security are unwarranted. They're not unjust, unfortunately, and I'm going to prove it to you with quotes, facts, Saturday, October 3, 2015. At the meeting of HDZ youth Tomislav Karamarko talks we begin our second Homeland War. Previously on July 8, 2015, on the party clause for the first election unit...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5937	Dear colleague, just stick to the law in question that we have on the agenda. Don't get into things that don't matter. We're going to re-prove the avalanche of the debate and the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5938	So I'm kindly asking you not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5939	Replicate your colleagues to Bulya but you have started with gatherings that have nothing to do with the cooperation of the Armed Forces and the police in the protection and surveillance of the state border This is what you started to expose. [[Intruder Stazic: There, there, and I will prove it to you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5940	Well, it's best that I replicate what you think. Previously on July 8th 2015, at the party clause for the 1st electoral unit Tomislav Karamarko also said HDZ is moving towards a new country war. So this isn't the rhetorical figure that got lost, this is the plan, this is the concept that's been exposed several times. Which country war? Was it an external danger? It's not. And there Karamarko was quite clear against the then government, against Milanovic, against Mrs Sobol, against Lek, against me. And don't tell us that we're scaring the people, he's scared of the HDZ, he's scared of Karamarko with these announcements of what you're doing right now. Against whom,.../Intruder Downhill: Please but do not go all the time... Don't interrupt me, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can talk. [[Downstairs: Please.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why you're passing these two laws. So you can put these Karamark announcements into effect [[Intruder: Please.]] That's the purpose of these laws. [[We're talking about the final bill of defense, but what you're saying...]] Against whom? Against whom? Come on, don't interrupt me. Against whom? Maybe even against you. Maybe even against you at the MOST because he said we don't need bridges, we don't need bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5941	Dear colleague, please! Don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5942	Therefore, we object because these two laws allow Karamarko to use the army in the new Homeland War against the current opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5943	Please! Please, you've really gone too far! I don't want to give anyone a warning, but you've really gone too far! We've had a normal parliamentary debate without heat, and please, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. [[Intruder: There.]] Let's move on. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5944	Thank you very much. My friend, you're going back too much and you're not talking about the subject we're talking about. We didn't talk here, it turns out you're in HDZ. We didn't talk about the clauses, so you know everything. We are here talking precisely about national issues and the National Strategy, about the two amendments to the laws that await us in this difficult humanitarian crisis that Croatia is not guilty of, and is responsible for doing certain tasks. And the only instruments are Croatian soldier, Croatian police officer, joint service and opposition and position. But insinuating something from party meetings doesn't matter to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5945	Thank you. The next one is the distinguished representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, I wouldn't answer for the replica, but you pointed out if I'd noticed the abuse of Homeland Security. Now what's Homeland Security? I don't know what you meant by that, but I'm going to replicate to you in a way that I can't agree with your debate because our discussions on this side and the replicas went in the direction that there is no resistance to the adoption of these laws in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, there is no standstill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution only, Article 7 if you read it, if you read it is attached in paragraph 11. to Article 17 and Article 101. So they're not conjecture. None of us have a problem with that as we were told to run an analysis. I wanted not to provoke, but that the Minister of Police Orepic, who, until the other day, actually spoke not to this day, did not need an army, did not need a wire, the police can do anything alone that I am convinced of. And now all of a sudden, a copernicus twist and all of a sudden he can. You can't use the Constitution to assume what you would, that you would. This is too serious a question, too serious a question. I suggest you withdraw the bill, make an analysis, believe you'll get support for each of us and on this side as much as any of us share from the left or right is concerned about national security, it cares, and we care, and we're aware of the crisis, we're aware of the consequences of the possible that can come. But don't bring yourself in, and Minister Orepić, I'm going to use the opportunity, too, and you MOST members think carefully about what you're doing with this. It's a very thin line between democracy and the other. What's this leading to?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5947	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5948	Although you used this replica, you spoke more to the minister, but you partly spoke to me. Croatian Armed Forces or the Croatian Army has an obligation to protect the sea, border at sea, land and air under the Constitution. Here we just add more humanitarian character to add all these resources, the potentials to the police. And I personally believe and believe that nothing is against the constitution, you think it is. I don't think so. I trust the Croatian police officer and the Croatian soldier that the united can provide national security means protecting our citizens and the other thing humanitarianally helping these people who are, who are, who are, who are, who are, who are, who are, who are, who are, who they are, who are, who they are, who are, who they are, who are, they are, they are, they are, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5949	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5950	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After a deep thought, I came to the conclusion that my colleague Bulj was right. It is justified that there should be a Croatian army on our borders and no one else's army but ours. Of course, what am I drawing from these conclusions? A great Roman Caesar from the history of Rome said "work as if we were going to live in peace for a hundred years, and prepare for war as if tomorrow would be war". Me too, why does it take our army to stay at the border? So you see how many enemies we have in our country of Croatia, so we have such fascists, neofascists, we have Ustashas, Ustasha snakes, and we have some who, on 15 March 2016 in Vukovar, damaged the memory of the plaque of the dead Croatian defender Velimir Djerek Sokol, my brother's gun was killed at the fairground. Thank you very much. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5951	Thank you. Is there? Yes, the distinguished representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5952	Of course, police will use emergency situations to help at the border of the Croatian Army. Because I personally trust both the Croatian soldier and the Croatian police officer. Someone I don't believe. I personally participated in this and I believe and someone on the left and right, everyone participated together in the Homeland War and everything should be perceived by both Croatian soldiers and police. And that simple crisis situations can be solved together. Of course, with all the structures and the rest of the citizens, of the ordinary citizen. How are we going to build a national security and border conservation strategy? You're right that we haven't, in part, kept our limits until now. That's the example I just said. Two kilometers of border crossings are actually in the depths of Croatia's space and so on along the border. So the Croatian border is a very important element both on land, at sea and in the air. And that's the only thing that can protect a Croatian soldier and a Croatian policeman together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5953	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5954	You say colleague, I fully agree with you, the Croatian soldier is our pride, the Croatian soldier should not be underestimated, the Croatian soldier is human, the Croatian soldier I trust. Me, too. However, this law was not written by a Croatian soldier, it was written by politics. And that policy, which we are warning of and what we are obliged to warn, is precisely underestimating and denying everything that we have said because it was necessary to respect the Constitution. And the Constitution says, it's not that, it's just that. That's all this and this is all settled by the Constitution. When the army goes with tents to help, it's settled by the Defense Act. But when it goes with a rifle then that's all the conditions are, or any weapon, it's all settled by the Constitution and the Constitution cannot be ignored. It is equally injured, these bill proposals, injure the provision of 174 of our Rules of Procedure, which says that, in addition to the bill, the proposer will also submit a report on the consultation with the interested public. It wasn't all done. And once more, I will finish your line again. I trust the Croatian soldier, and I believe that if the Croatian soldier is sent in these situations, but according to the Constitution, he will remember the words: "I recognized you because I was a stranger too." You know who said that, and so does the Croatian soldier.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5955	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5956	My colleagues Ingrid here interpret the Constitution in your own way... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5957	Please, allow the representative to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5958	The Meritoran is the Constitutional Court to say. Everyone has an interpretation, of course it's your democratic right as an opposition or a majority. However, I continue to say that our government, regardless of who is at the head of this crisis, must have a specific crisis, so I said 700 million people want to go to Europe. And we haven't solved this crisis yet. So that's a huge problem. Of course, the National Strategy for Defence and National Security should be considered systematically. Well, since 2002, I will repeat again, since 2002, there has been no change in the Strategy of Defence and National Security. It still doesn't say that we joined NATO and in 2009 we joined NATO. So once again, I call on the public resolution ministers, the National Council, all of us to push, to have a national strategy in which we can work out all the operational things by the ministries. Because what General Krstičević said, I simply trust the Croatian soldier, the Croatian police officer, and I do not believe that he will go with tanks and no one should be intimidated, and especially the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5959	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5960	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Bulj, so with part of your debate about the need to develop a strategy, the overall National Security Strategy, I agree, too, I think we need it. But I also agree that with this bill, we should have come up with some kind of analysis. Five sentences of reasoning in one law and five sentences in the other, so you'll agree with me absolutely is not enough. In our opinion and interpretation, these two laws essentially bypass constitutional provisions that are very clear when it comes to the Croatian military, its position, role in both peacetime and wartime situations. So this is not about what we think of as a Croatian soldier and the Croatian Army, I don't think there's any difference between us in this Chamber, this is about an attempt by the executive authority to bypass the Constitution by proposing these laws, to give authority to a few people in that executive government, prime minister and minister to make a decision that for now I will hypothetically say 5 days the Croatian soldier is going to build a wire fence at the border. Or to send a Croatian soldier armed within five days, of course, than to stand at that border and keep someone from crossing that border illegally. Or, I don't know, I might get it wrong 'cause those bare-handed soldiers are gonna stand by the police or somewhere where the police aren't around right now. Explain to me if the Deputy Minister and Minister have been absolutely unable to explain it to me, and they have managed to convince me even less.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5961	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5962	Well, of course one serious state must have precautions, and that's this. So Croatia is not to blame for this crisis. But we have a Balkan route at this point which is well solved and solved. But a thousand kilometers of border is not a matter of wire here, it's a matter of control as it passes, this is a state, we're a state, we need to protect these people humanitarianally, be human to them but also protect national security. I believe, again I repeat to you, the Croatian soldier and the Croatian police officer that they will not go with tanks on these people or machine guns or on their citizens, or on opposition or on power. I believe what is repeated in the context. That's why I support this as a precaution. And we're behind a lot, unfortunately, this is a minimum that we have to give the government tools to protect national security. We don't mention the wire. You're the only one who mentions the wire. It is not Croatia's fault for this crisis and... for this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5963	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ana Devčić Comparić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do to my colleague Sobol, and you mentioned it about the strategy. So I have information that there is a strategy over and that is the strategy that is in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which was made from 5 to 9 months 2015 at the request of the President and Prime Minister and it is clearly in someone's drawer, it should only be removed and referred to this House. So we can bring the strategy very quickly. Well, I'm a little surprised that today's debate is because we, this whole debate has come down to only our defenders and our army. So did we forget about our M.O.P. members or our police? Well, our police have also defended this country... So far, she's done a great job, and there's 650 thousand refugees in the country, and we haven't had a single problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see the need at all for this moment to change that. Did we have any problems, so now we're changing these two laws based on that problem? So we have the Croatian police people. So we say these amendments to the law that the Croatian police are unable to protect the borders of the Republic of Croatia, the minister of police is unable to manage his portfolio because he cannot protect the borders of the Croatian Republic. So are we normal? Do we know what we're doing? So we have the Croatian police who took part in all this and in the war and in peace and supreme doing so. And we tell them now you don't know it, you don't do it well because we need an army at the border. So are we normal? Well, I mean, we're the Parliament. We've been chosen by the citizens of this country and all decisions we make here. The government has been elected to this House. And so we will now hand over power to the government instead of keeping them, here we who are chosen by the people. Well, let's not do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5965	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5966	My colleagues here are about precautionary measures. Was it possible in America to predict September 11th? Is it possible? That's right, so someone made an appointment, someone made an appointment. [[Intruder: Yes.]] So precautionary measures and the strategy that you mentioned, thank you very much for having, I haven't seen it, precautionary measures, means an assessment of the security of the situation that changes from hour to hour. But we have the means of the police doing their job and doing their job. We have the possibility that in exceptional situations, in exceptional situations it will help, means command, means these resources, and in the humanitarian matter, the resources of the Minister of the Interior. So it would be much better if the joint headquarters were at the level of the Republic of Croatia, common for crisis control because there is always a crisis here. 700 million people want to come to Europe and we have held an old National Security and Defence Strategy since 2002. And you're still boasting and you've been in power for up to three months that she's in a drawer. Who's got her in the drawer? Well, that's what it takes, so disaster I mean when, unserious relationship to the state and before and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5967	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5968	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just be brief, I see you're fierce all. I'll try to talk about life. No war, believe me, has been won on the theory of the previous one. These are all the new circumstances we're facing. Do you understand me? It's very important here that we sort of agree whether mistrust at the level of military abuse is based on each other. I don't think so. So anyone will use the army for something negative, I think we can remove that thing. It saddens me that these circumstances are connected to some kind of wire, and that's nonsense. Okay. Here's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to get some sort of debate if we can solve the problem. And what it's even a threat at this point, is there an uncontrollable situation, whether it can be put in the context of a threat. They threaten, when you say threat, we have the perception of the army as it used to be or what, is it or can we sort it out in some way? If we separate these concepts that are threatened, then the situation of the threat is not just war, it's not just war danger. So we can just get into a situation where we physically need to protect a certain space that is vast, which is large, which is long with that army. At this point, it means when the police's potential is spent, if that's how it should be done, it would go that way. It's this kind of approach in this proposal of these amendments and the addition of the law. So there are no other components, etc. So first and foremost, we have to figure out whether or not we have, whether there's a reasonable mistrust in the sense of military abuse. I think we're past that a long time ago. Here, I can agree with you, but that was the point. It's a matter of commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5969	Thank you. Let's go with the replicas. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5970	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I understand, however, the laws and the constitution are not a matter of faith and trust between certain people who perform their duties. Their actions must be in accordance with the Constitution and the Law. And if these were sensitive things, it was predicted by our Constitution. The constitution even says it is not a special law, a special law is under discussion but it is a constitutional authority that the Armed Forces can be used as an aid in fire protection. You would say what it should say in the Constitution, and the founder was wise and knows why he's doing it, precisely because of possible abuses. So I know these provisions still date back to our Christmas Constitution. Therefore, this is not about you as a minister, about us as agents, because we trust you or us. This is about a system that has to work in the everyday personnel combination was a minister this one or that one. We must all stick to the constitution, and no one can afford it more than is allowed by the Constitution and by law. We're just asking for the respect of the Constitution, and for all this you need to implement, you don't need these laws, they're anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5971	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5972	Your Honor, I'm going to try to get this debate to really try to focus on what's important, so I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Minister. Mr. Krsticevic has been working for 20 years and more on security matters, Professor. Tudjman even more. I spent 10 years at the Ministry of the Interior. Here, let us be able to assess the situation in which Croatia is present and what are the potential threats. Minister, a specific question to you. In the event of the arrival of millions of people in the period last year, whether Croatian police can deal with these challenges. I'm not talking, I'm not diminishing our boys' ability, I'm not diminishing the ability and capacity of the ministry. I'm talking about a threat beyond our means. So Slovenia didn't send the army to the border for nothing. She sent it because she has three times as many cops as we do. I just want us to be extremely responsible, rational, to realize that the military is just help, to help the police in case you don't give God some things that can happen. Half the MPs in this House laughed that 100,000 people could come to Croatia. Six hundred and fifty thousand have passed. Who will be responsible if over a million come? I'm not saying it's gonna happen, but consider this just as one preventive, auxiliary tool to help our army help our police make us as effective as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5973	Thank you. The next replica is not Mrs Ingrid Antičević but the distinguished representatives of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5974	Mr. Minister, so I don't repeat what my colleague Ingrid said about constitutional provisions and what can or can't be done by amending this law. You say, you mention some kind of wire. But what else am I thinking now after all this debate, after yesterday's Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. If you say and claim it's logistical humanitarian support to the police. That's what you've got today. That's a possibility you have under the current laws. If you are now asking for the Croatian soldier to go in case of need and without prior decision of this Croatian Parliament at the Croatian border. What do you mean it looks like? Well, in my mind, they won't hold on to the belts one for the long one. I guess they'll be deployed somewhere under arms, right or otherwise? Or how different? And you cannot remove our suspicion that this government will make a decision to build wires and fences in the same way as Slovenia or Hungary on its borders, to build wires and fences. You cannot dissuasion me because you did not specify in the proposal for this law in what sense and how the Croatian military capacity would be used. And there's a basic problem. So we have a constitutional problem, we have because this is, these bill proposals are in direct conflict with the provisions of the Constitution. Yes, sir, Deputy Minister, they are, so read the Constitution a little bit, and you'll see they are. And the second thing that you didn't give anything is I'm not saying that you have to give it here, we're not going to talk about what an action or something like what a colleague said is going to look like, but we're going to know what kind of gauges the military is going to engage in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5975	Thank you. And the next replica, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I trust you. I trust you that you will not abuse this possible authority and ask that Croatian Armed Forces do something that would be harmful to this people. I trust you, the Prime Minister trusts you, too. But here it's not a question of trust, because trust is a subjective category and it can change in time. Some other people will come after you in your place and we will leave with such a change of law the possibility that in some other circumstances some mad Croatian politician will possibly abuse such powers. So we have to talk about objective categories, and the Constitution gives us that framework. So it's not a matter of trust, I trust you, but I don't know what's going to happen in the future. I said history is full, and so is today's abuse, including the Armed Forces in various countries for political purposes. That is not what we want at this stage that we have reached democratic standards. And that's why we all have to stick to the Constitution together, and the army can't keep the border of arms until we change the Constitution. I'm looking for you if you don't have enough capacity, abilities within the police force, material, human or some third parties to tell us what's wrong with you. Then we in the House will see what the best way to ensure that is for you, because we want to give you all the tools to ensure that you ensure the country's safety in accordance with the competences that the DOJ and the police have. We want to do it. Tell us what's wrong with you, we'll tell you what's the best way of representing the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5977	Thank you. We're moving on to the next exhibit on behalf of the MPs' club. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5978	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. There's been a very interesting debate here that's not about these legal proposals, but obviously the need for us to have such a debate is being shown, and I'm just going to refer to it for a little while. It refers to national security and institutes or institutions that are key to national security. And that army certainly plays a big role, the police play a big role, but at least the same big role in national security is played by democratic institutions. And as widespread as this has been in our society, so I would say among the MPs themselves, that they often despise Parliament, that often despise Parliament, Parliament is in every democracy the only dam between one built-in tendency of the executive government towards authority and citizens. And Parliament is the only defence as the most representative body of the institutions of democracy. And through that, perhaps, is the most effective deterrent mechanism. If democratic institutions function, if institutions are strong and strong and have and are able to carry out their duties and powers it is a very, very important component in national security. Democracy is an integral part and the defence of democracy is an integral part of national security. However, much has been said here about the Croatian Army, how the Croatian Army acted in this refugee crisis. I was, three times, even in Opatovac and Slavonski Brod, and I can testify here, it was organized by the Croatian police, with the cooperation and assistance of the Croatian Army, which acted fantasticly, it was highly organized and we all across Europe could be proud of how it was done, absolutely. And in Opatovac where there was actually an ad hoc, no one in Europe predicted this kind of crisis, there is also a reason why it is not quite spontaneous, refugee crisis. But it was also in Opatovac, which was an ad hoc organized in Slavonski Brod, which was systematically organised by Croatian police and the Croatian military did a great job that they did according to existing laws. So, by what we have here. And these few articles that we should discuss today are not talking about the Croatian Army, this is not about the Croatian Army at all. The Croatian military has shown what they can and knows and how they do it as well as the police. They talk about changing powers between parliament, so between the representative government and the executive authority. They take one power over the representative and give it to the executive authority. In fact, the power to decide when the army will go to the border, only that authority, nothing about humanitarian aid, that is not what the military is involved in. He's been working since the 9th month of last year on these assignments, and very successfully and proudly, everyone. But what these laws are about is that in the peacetime situation, therefore which is not foreseen by the Constitution as the war situations are, in the peacetime situation, the power to decide that the army is going to the border is being taken away from Parliament's highest representative body and transferred to the executive authority. And that's all we're discussing. These are the only proposals of this law, or these two laws that are before us in the House. It was said in the debate what if circumstances changed? Let's just say there are no refugees at this point, but what if circumstances change? If circumstances change, this Parliament may decide that the military is going to the borders or if you are afraid of two-thirds of this Parliament in that case, one afternoon, it may adopt these laws that are proposed here if Parliament is to be deprived of the right to decide. But the principle of what we're discussing is in a peaceful time, so not when it's war, whether the military's entry into the borders is decided by the Parliament's most representative body or by the executive authority. The thesis I want to defend here is that it is necessary to safeguard national security in order to safeguard the institutions of democracy that should be decided by the most representative body, so the Parliament. Since 16 September 2015, just over 658 thousand people have passed through Croatia. That's what 40 people asked for asylum. Even though our police absolutely offered everyone I saw in my eyes, large posters, large inscriptions in multiple languages that anyone who wanted to be able to seek asylum, where they could turn, etc. So 40 people were looking for asylum and everyone said they were going to Germany. So their destination is Germany. In all these more than 658 thousand cases, the Croatian police and the Croatian military actively participated and successfully and very effectively responded to the crisis. Croatia is the best in Europe. I'm not, I'm the last one who thinks a man should always boast about his situation and his country, but in this case we've really done the best in Europe to the extent that it's even caused a certain level of envy. The former interior minister ran the project, and he himself said that police in co-operation with the military are able to do it, can do it and has shown that they can do it. Current Minister Orepic said again that police are able to do their job and do the job without any difference in doing the job tied to refugees. In the debate, it was heard from the ruling circles that compared the immigrant or refugee crisis in which Croatia was in some way on its way to 1991. Do you know something we don't? So to compare the refugee crisis, as difficult as it is, in which our institutions have indeed proved first-class, to compare to the war, I think it sheds a completely different light on these few articles that change here. Is that some kind of preparation for a war situation? Because as far as the refugee crisis is concerned, we don't need those changes. Parliament functions, can meet, can decide, police function and the military cooperates under existing laws participating in humanitarian aid, is present everywhere, lifts tents, builds temporary facilities, repairs permanent facilities, so it is absolutely present here and functioning. There is no doubt that there was a major accident in the refugee crisis, so a large number of people, one of whom, about a million people, came to Europe, of which we said more than half went through Croatia. The Law on Defence in Article 59, I will quote, predicts: "The armed forces can be used to help protect and rescue, in case of disasters, major accidents and accidents.". The defence law, even leaving everything behind, provides for the existing legislation, so the existing articles foresee the military's participation. There's nothing extra to make up. Meanwhile, compared to what was when around 10 thousand and 11 thousand entered Croatia, I think it was the largest number, 11 thousand people in 24 hours. The situation calms down, but it doesn't intensify. So the analysis that I'm based on the facts that we have of the insight that we can do would say that it's a danger or a threat less than more. If this changes or if there is any indication that it is changing, then there should be an analysis that speaks of it changing and, in addition, there will be no war situation in which the Parliament will be able to respond without further delay and that is to make those decisions that the most representative body in the country must make and that is to send the army to the national borders. If there are any indicators in the opposite direction, tell us. Present them in, so it's not about the war, it's about the refugee crisis. Therefore, without further ado, these indicators can be presented in public. The army, based on the Constitution and existing provisions, already participates in the defence of borders or the preservation of borders, which is at sea through the coast guard. That is why it is not necessary again to take away the powers of Parliament, the Croatian Parliament and to give them to the executive authorities because the possibility of the situation at sea is also foreseen. In this case, if we took the Parliament's right to decide on such an important position as sending an army to the border and to leave that decision to the executive authorities, these articles that are proposed here are not proposing any specification, no restriction, what would that army be doing there, who would decide, what, what, what that army is doing there. The army, of course, is doing what she's ordered to do. And in this case, it is not an accident, it is not a whim that is proposed and that it is sanctioned that Parliament decides on this and not an executive authority. Parliament is a form of democratic control over two institutes, a key military and police that represent a state monopoly on violence. It's, uh, not to go in, you know, from basic theories of democracy. That is why this authority is given to Parliament, precisely because citizens, that the most representative body has control over it. So, the only change or the only purpose that the transfer of military decisions to the border from Parliament to executive power has the only real consequence is the militarisation of society. And that's a really serious question. In this regard, if we talk about this, that we will take Parliament's powers and transfer them to executive power, then we need a much longer, much more serious debate. What Croatia needs and can do with what it already does, what the Croatian police are doing and what in those parts in which it can and for which it is authorised for the sake of and for which the Croatian army has been authorised from the very beginning can and should engage European institutions and common European policy. There's a deal to be made with Turkey. Yes, we need to make a deal with Turkey. These people come from Turkey, according to which Turkey has said 6 billion euros, the EU has offered three. There's the area. in which Croatian European and foreign policy can and must act. [[Downstairs: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5979	Now you'll be able to respond through the reply to the replicas. Let's go to the replicas. The first one has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5980	I am pleased that the respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Vesna Pusic, spoke first of all here about the importance of the institutions and the importance of the Croatian Parliament as other countries play such or very similar roles. Back in the day, however, according to the creation of the Croatian state, only God has said that over the Croatian Parliament. Today, nobody else, we don't take care of ourselves. But precisely because it has been somewhat unusual to say and where Mrs Pusic has just drawn attention to the strengthening of democratic institutions I will once again appeal to the Constitution. Such power was given to the Croatian Parliament by the Constitution, and we are constitutionalists. So that in all these situations, in Article 17 which speaks and is related here to this Article 7 that says that Armed Forces can, if the nature of the killing requires, use the help of the police and other state bodies. That's what the Constitution says. But under what conditions? This Regulation shall enter into force on Thus, at a time of war or immediate threat, independence of the single state and can be produced. We don't see any danger now. And you said logically, it can turn into something that we can't assume today. And then it can certainly be undermined under the provision of Article 17 of the threat of the state. That big... So here article 17 mentions even natural disasters, but it all says in the Constitution and has to write because these are assumptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So whenever an army performs in such a role, they are prerogatives that it can have, or which conditions are prescribed only by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5981	Thank you. Would you like some? There's no need. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5982	Dear President of the Parliament, so on this matter I think you should listen to the profession. You've had a professional soldier here, 20 years of internships, he's finished the academy in the U.S., he's a Croatian major, you've got a minister of the MUP, you've got a professor. Tudjman and they introduced you to these asymmetric threats and that we live in a new geopolitical environment. There's no doubt about that. Secondly, the question of Germany where is the historical context, who ever wonders what Germany will do if you followed these elections has and Germany also experience with refugees, for example after World War II the biggest ethnic cleansing in Europe, 17 million driven away, east of the line... Two million killed, two million raped women, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the Germans? What happens when the Germans close their borders? This is the second question Croatia has with refugees. There were more than half a million Muslim refugees, had experience with ISIL and mujahedins from North Africa and Afghanistan, and there were also Croatian warriors and prevented those forces from breaking out in the Neretva Valley in '93. A year. And today, these people are sitting in The Hague. National security plan. We heard today that there was no revision since 2002 and total failure and what was done by those agencies that cared about the revision and the national security plan total failure. I hear the word democracy, sovereignty. If we had democracy, we wouldn't have done lustration in the opposite direction, and Lika would have 132,000 Croats and not 40,000, for example, other places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5983	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5984	Thank you. I'm always about to listen to the waist just have two answers to your remarks. One thing in Parliament itself is that all MPs are equal. That's why we were chosen here. I, for example, use it because others use it, but in fact I would be the happiest, I think it would be the most appropriate not to use any academic and other titles in Parliament. We are in Parliament as representatives and everyone has the right as a representative to represent the position. And consult with the profession outside Parliament certainly needs to. But in this case, in the case of these laws that we're talking about right now, these laws don't talk about national security. These laws speak of relations between Parliament and the executive authority in decision-making powers. So the waist is each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5985	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable representative of Ante Mayor Here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5986	Dear colleagues, you used the word democracy most often in your presentation, which is fine, the word Croatian Parliament or Parliament which is the same, but here we actually have a Croatian Parliament that will decide how to decide on this after the debate, however long it lasts. So, the Croatian Parliament will decide by its vote. It's something that's almost inevitable. And now the question is, what's the problem? If the Croatian Parliament is the place of democracy that decides as the ultimate body that decides on such issues, it will, the Croatian Parliament will decide on this law. Now there's another question, and that's whether this law proposed illegally, unconstitutionally, is it wrong? Now that's a question. We here interpret one side, the other side. That's a word that can give, say, the Constitutional Court. So let's let me know if the law is right or wrong, let's not go from assuming that the government is with good legal support that it has sent us a false law. Let's start with the law of founded grounds. If so, there is only a third question, or first, whether or not we have the right to decide. And how we decide it is as if in any other way like this Parliament we have made a decision and by anything. And secondly, if we don't respect it, then this really doesn't make sense, then it's exhausting. And finally we have to listen to Mr. Secretary who has a better insight into these issues and international contacts. If Mr. Minister, along with this legality and parliamentary decision, estimates that it would be necessary in possible situations that the police have assistance to the extent that the legal intervention framework requires it or the opportunity to require it to be used by the military, then let us trust him. And it all went by the law if that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5987	Time, time's up. Thank you. Here you go, dear vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5988	Thank you very much. As far as the bill is concerned, the law is, of course, proposed legally to be otherwise proposed. He can be proposed by the government, she has the right to do so and is legally proposed. Whether the content of the law is in accordance with the Constitution we can absolutely discuss in the Parliament because the note bene brought by this Constitution. So it's not like there's anything we can do here now and then the Constitutional Court will pull us by the ears and correct us. It's only in exceptional situations, I hope. But the Constitution was passed in this House. Secondly, can the Parliament, by its decision, take some power and transfer it to executive power? Well, of course he can. But that's why we're discussing here because it's my opinion and the opinion of some other colleagues that it's not good. And that, among other things, because if we were to go by the logic that you brought here, then the opposition shouldn't even exist, then there shouldn't be anyone who thinks differently than most. And that's after... is the greatest danger to democracy, and that is the tyranny of the majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5989	Thank you. We have another replica, the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5990	Dear Mrs Pusic, we can absolutely agree on this first part of your debate where you mentioned institutions, where you mentioned representative and executive power, where you mentioned a very thin line that shares this bill and perhaps with the Constitution. However, I trust professional services, I trust the applicant of this proposal. But I would also disagree with you in another part of your opinion on this issue. Let us remember last year your statement that migrants i.e. terrorists, not migrants, I apologize, terrorists do not come to Croatia by rubber boats but by the business class of aircraft. Let us also remember your statement from the early part of the crisis where you said that Croatia can simply deal with a few thousand refugees but cannot deal with several tens of thousands of refugees. We're talking hundreds of thousands today. And to tell you the truth, I don't blame you for that. I don't blame you because from that perspective it seemed that way. But because of this experience we have since last year, we have to think in a different way, we have to think in a way that can really not only be repeated but that can be repeated with amounts of not 100 thousand but over a million people. By respecting all the standards of democratic rights in the Republic of Croatia, the way our military and police carried out their mission last year, I do not see any concern in this legislative proposal, and therefore by sharing your opinion on the work of the institutions, I will support this bill as well as the Club of Representatives of HSLS, and therefore I am also giving up further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5991	Thank you. But I'm afraid you're making up for your time through these replicas. The word has a respected vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5992	Thank you very much. Of all the so far-identified terrorists in Europe, two have come by the refugee route. All the others came born in Belgium, born in France, born in Great Britain, were fighting in the Middle East and coming back. Now that's all we're gonna do, we're just gonna be clean about it. As to how many refugees we can have in our territory, what I was talking about is the number of refugees Croatia can permanently take care of. If you remember, it was in context, so people who will live there permanently, not that will pass through Croatia. It has been shown, and the current minister is quite clear that we are in a position to take care and deal with this crisis. But then it was said how many people can permanently settle in Croatia. It can be, or at least stay in Croatia for a long time. And on that point, I said that maybe we can do with what thousand, but that with tens of thousands we can't, that we're simply in no condition and I'm standing there today, and I think that's what the European institutions have confirmed and of course you have the right to your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5993	I thank you, the word was requested by Deputy Minister Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5994	Honorable Vice-President, Honorable Vice-President, Honorable Vice-President and Parliament MPs, Mrs Pusic. I have tried to explain earlier what the Law on Defence and the Constitution says, of course, when it comes to the use of the Croatian Army. And no one with this bill of law wants or intends to give the Parliament power to executive power. No one, because these issues are clearly distinguished by both the Constitution and the Defence Act. So in the Law of Defence, he talks about the use of the Armed Forces, and this refers to the state of war and the immediate threat and talks about the use of the Armed Forces and this use refers to the peacetime state. And the law clearly states Article 46. "The use of the Armed Forces is decided by the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister in accordance with the Constitution and this law.". And the use refers to the use of the Armed Forces in the military condition, the use of the Armed Forces in a state of direct threat, the use of the Armed Forces when crossing the border and the activities of the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia. This is therefore worked out in Articles 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53, and you have until Article 56. After that, you have the use and help of the Armed Forces. This is Article 58, which clearly states: "The use of the Armed Forces is decided by the Government or the defence minister in accordance with the provisions of this Act.". Therefore, there is a difference between the use of war and the direct threat and the use of the Armed Forces in terms of times of peace. So there is no point in saying that some authority of the Croatian Parliament wants to take away the Croatian Parliament and give it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is clearly defined by both the Constitution and the Law of Defence. And there's no way that it's any kind of militarization of society, but it only opens up the possibility that circumstances would require the military to assist the police. So the police are still responsible for controlling the state border and only the military can help her. And what should also be highlighted, a constant call to Articles 17 and 101. The Constitution. So see Articles 17 and 101 also refer to times of war and direct endangerment. So it doesn't apply to the peacetime state. And the bill right now refers not to war and immediate threat but to peacetime conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5995	Thank you. Replica, esteemed Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, allow me to deny you. The possibility that the military is assisting the police exists today. The military has been assisting the police since September this year. So the most normal, very effective and very good. However, in the bill of law, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Defence and the operation here. So in the peacetime state, only parliament, in this case the Croatian Parliament can decide to send an army to the border. The Defence Act is amended and the Armed Forces can be said to support police in the protection of the state border in accordance with the law governing the control of the state border. So now it's said that in power, or in what the police are doing, what the military is doing is it's also able to keep the state border with the police, in other words, to send it to the state border. The decision to provide support for the Armed Forces to the police referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be taken by the Government, therefore by the Executive Authority, no longer by the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the Minister of Defence and with the prior consent of the President of the Republic. In other words, the power to send the army to the borders is no longer in the Parliament but in the executive government and that is the essence of this change.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5997	Thank you. Answer, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5998	You don't want to accept what we've been saying all along. The military will not guard the border, the obligation remains with the Croatian police under the State Border Control Act. The army can only assist her and nothing more. That's the important difference, Mrs. Pusic, that's the important difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u5999	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6000	Thank you very much. Well, the idea of changing these two laws was in the process of that most severe migrant crisis on the Balkan Route. Right now that route is closed. The fact is, we don't know if it's gonna stay that way or if there's even going to be a much more dangerous route for our country. However, we know that the current situation certainly does not require any reference to this previously, does not require the urgency of acting or adopting these amendments in the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I think it would be good to postpone this, to take a comprehensive view of the context of possible and other threats in order to make this more quality and to clarify at the professional level of the conflict dispute with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The contribution is also the fact that nothing can surprise us so much that the police could not adequately and in good quality and spottably respond, because even in the current immigration crisis, police have done their job, high professionalism and responsibility, protection of property and citizens and of course humanity. We showed unlike Hungary that we don't need a razor wire, we don't need armored vehicles, we don't need a kalashnikovs and we showed our great Croatian heart and a great Croatian soul, and we also raised Croatia's reputation in the world. So it would be best for me to postpone this adoption, to complete it and supplement it, and we will do nothing to endanger our safety. On the contrary, I think we'll do a good job. Thank you very much. And that's because I don't know what else to say. I'll give up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6001	Thank you. Let me point out that we have nine more exposures that are on behalf of the club, which are individual, so if it's possible to rationalize the exposures and replicas. Next is the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Thank you for giving order to the esteemed vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6002	Dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government. In the beginning, let me say that, on behalf of the Croatian Labourists, we will not support the two laws on border surveillance, or the assistance of the military to the Croatian police. We think he's rash, unnecessary, and he's actually doing more harm to himself than he's using the country's reputation. What would the army do at the border? She said she would support the police for security and humanitarian reasons. That reminds me a little of that... We arm the speech to be peace, send the army to the border so that the military will actually act humanitarianly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then if we want someone to act humanitarianly, I guess we're sending humanitarians, we've got the police. At the time of the worst crisis on that so-called. Balkan route police have done their job, all say to the general satisfaction. Plus, refugees, migrants, whatever we call them, did not want to stay in Croatia. And I have one of the big problems that I haven't heard anyone mention why refugees, why migrants don't want to be in Croatia. Why do they look at it like a stop by the way? I think exactly what is said in my profession, philosophy where the crisis is there is also salvation. We'll get into a situation very quickly that we'll realize that we are actually migrants of our solution, not our problem. We were talking about population policy. Now, the only thing we don't like is people who don't like other skin color, worldview, religion, etc. Then that's already a problem for us. Yeah? But the fact that it will soon be something that is current and something that we will have to think about. But now, there's been a lot of stories about responsibility, government, ministers, whether we trust each other, we don't trust each other, etc. I'll try to joke a little bit and say, I trust the Croatian military, but I don't trust Croatian politics or Croatian politicians. I think that's the problem. But even that's not such a problem. For me, it's a far bigger problem if we've been listening a little bit and we've actually seen that we're always talking about refugees to migrants, but always through some way of saying prism and they're close, they're Islamists, they're terrorists. Not exactly, but with the illusion that it's very possible, there's something wrong. Yeah? I wonder what kind of people we are, not what kind of state we are. The state is probably like any other, no better, no worse, the way we are. But what kind of people are we? What kind of country are we? Don't we recognize ourselves that 20 years ago, twenty-five years ago, there was a war and what was happening here, and what we all expected was for the world to help us. I know in Osijek when we were, there was a General Satish Nambiar coming, so that day didn't shoot, so we all went out, expecting that Indian to do some kind of miracle. We've had no experience. In the end, we realized that without relying on ourselves and our strength, nothing would happen. But I'm talking about this hope that the world will understand us, that we're part of that world, we're nothing worse. Why did we deserve such a destiny? We kind of don't treat these people like that. It's just, of course, we feel sorry for people when we see the kids, the unhappy, the poor one. Well, I think every normal man has to get that picture excited and he just has to put it in the first place, not security, not, I don't know the laws, not everything we're talking about and what we're putting emphasis on. But we're like drowning in a grey and saying what the Slovenians are doing, what the Hungarians are doing. Well, I know, Hungarians do, they do, and... Well, I guess that can't be our role model, huh? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or what do my Slovaks do? Now there were elections there, the party entered, the neo-fascists entered the Parliament... with 14 parliamentary mandates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says no Muslim can enter Slovakia without me knowing. How can he do that? Well, with the army. It's the army that's gonna be the one that's gonna be, like, what do I say, the one who's watching, controlling. He says Fico immediately... And since he will put the government together, otherwise the Social Democrats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But listen to what the Social Democrats say, they won't say in Slovakia there will be any whole Islamic community. In other words, if there are Muslims but they can't live in one environment so they can connect, we have the experience of Roma, so we know what's going to happen there. Well, that's terrible words. And we're actually talking about all this here just giving the wind in the back of ideas like that. In the end, we refer to Germany and we say Germany has changed its policy. No, Germany hasn't changed its policy. Mrs. Merkel continues to show herself as a stateswoman, not as a politician, and she, regardless of what she suffered in the province's elections, and we see what the alternative to Germany requires immediately to increase 20% of police officers, a reduction in social assistance, as we will give that help that the Syrians have in Syria. Otherwise, the Syrians leave Syria just because they have fantastic welfare, right? And, of course, there are also different requirements here and there, the abolition of Schengen, etc. Can they be role models for us? I don't think they should be. I remember a picture when in Hungary refugees fled there to cross those wires to Austria before, and then a Hungarian photo reporter, or television reporter, filmed a refugee, planted his leg. It was a famous painting, he fell. Fortunately today this man is supposed to be in Spain, there's a football coach there, so she actually indirectly helped him. Now, that leg, that foul that would say, that planted leg, that's what I wonder what our army is? Will our army be the one who hands these people at the border? Because these people need to be given a hand. Or... Mr. Shuker, I don't expect anything from you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, sorry, I thought, I mean, we agree otherwise absolutely not. So it means whether it's gonna be a hand to these people or it's gonna be a foot to those people, right, to trip them. Because the army at the border is a very clear message, you're not welcome, you're different. We don't like things differently, so we put an army on because we don't like things differently. And the security reasons, so I think it's just one very good-looking excuse, and we've had this really big discussion, we've been praising ourselves that it's all very professional, and we've actually talked and we've been spinning around, we've explained it to the same guy. In other words, we haven't come to any conclusions, and we've shown that we're not really some people. That's what worries me the most, that we haven't shown our humanity in this House because instead of just talking about refugees, that's the problem we're talking about our security. Well, of course we live in Croatia, it's our country, we don't care about others, etc., etc. And we're going to be human to the extent that it doesn't cost us anything, after lunch we're going to rub up a little bit and transfer the channel to another picture, and these refugees are going to do it again and again. Well, in the end, it's a problem that's going to last all the time. And so much is not to be made out of this extraordinary situation. We've been living an extraordinary situation ever since Brandt warned of the difference between north and south. Today east-west is the same story north and south. And we're living it permanently, and nothing that matters has changed. It's just that sometimes it grows a little bit more, sometimes it gets smaller. There would be a lot more to talk about, but in any case solidarity and humanity are the legitimacy of a community and we haven't exactly shown ourselves today in this debate, in my humble opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6003	I thank my colleague, Pecnik. No replicas, next up is Mr. Representative Goran Dodig on behalf of the HSS-HDSS club. Comrade Dodig, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6004	Dear Madam Vice President, the rapporteur and fellow MPs. Today we started talking here about two laws, but the discussion went, in my opinion, in various ways that in themselves are not bad. It began to discuss the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, which I was very pleased to discuss, whether these laws were in line with constitutional decisions, or the Constitution, which is also good. So we saw that there are different interpretations. We started talking about the humanist aspect of this whole problem, and that's good. And what marked at the end of the discussion is a different interpretation of constitutional solutions. Definitely when it comes to interpreting legal acts and certain solutions it is very often very different. Well, then, in such situations, institutions end up giving an opinion on all of this. And instead of being our solution, and whether we accept or accept this or not, however, we always convince each other that we're right. We, by chance, had here so far been seated by a professor of constitutional law. And we didn't wonder what he thought about it, no matter what procedure. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think we have to respect the profession. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The profession is interpreted differently. Well then we'll take Mrs. Marinovic's problem to the Constitutional Court, I don't mind. You can throw it to me while I'm talking, and it doesn't bother me, and we can pole through this debate of mine. But I look at this problem the next way, what is the state line to me for God's sake? What's the state line, and what does it mean? Well, simply put, one line restricting one country from another country. And when we look at it in terms of time and space, it doesn't have to be controversial. You have state boundaries that are so soft that I say they don't even exist. But when we look at the problem in the context of time, space and what happens then the Croatian border in its integrity is very vulnerable. In this vulnerability, citizens feel insecure and frightened. Uncertain and frightened in view of the tragic experiences in Croatian history and further and direct, or close history. It is difficult that there is one larger stone than Osijek to Vienna where some Croat is not or a Croatian citizen of Croatia, not only, I apologize, he did not die or his grave defending Europe. The citizens of this country are in terms of what happens in fear. When a man is in fear, both an individual and a state have an innate reflex to defend himself. One of the statements of this reflex is an attempt to restore the sense of security to these laws in some way as I experience it not only in the biological and territorial integrity of this country but also in the feeling and sending a message if you want to and the business world in the world that Croatia is safe to invest as well. But we don't talk about that part. I agree there's no point in leaving some kind of solution to the executive. But on the other hand, when I see how we work, to work in a sudden situation, and today things happen at an unprecedented rate. On the other hand, the fear of militarization is part of which I absolutely disagree with you in many things, but in that part I absolutely disagree. You see, at Zurich airport, there are military vehicles with long pipes. Is that the militarization of Switzerland? What? Yeah, but it's not an accident. [[Intruder: Unfortunately.]] Militaryization in itself when you're looking at a bad story like this. But when you look at it in a context that means the safety and feelings that people have, then it can have a positive effect. Security is one of the most important psychological characteristics, the most important psychological characteristics of individuals, safety. If in any way you disrupt that security, you often bring it into a position of irrational behavior when a man is sure that something will not happen to him and we live permanently under the influence of information, about the dangers that we are exposed to, then we must also reach out to some measures that are not popular. If we're looking at history 50 years ago in Croatia or if you want in Yugoslavia, then in the 1970s, there's a Bugojan group in Yugoslavia, if you remember. You know who went to solve this bug group? Army, army. If you are looking at a newer Croatian history, my good acquaintance and I would say friend, the late Vlado Gotovac was thundering in all the media in the '90s in a way that the columns will march into Zagreb and bring down power. The ideal story in war to use the army as a prevention of that, it didn't happen. We do not have a militant spirit, and let us not fear the fact that the army could be used against this nation. There's so much democracy in any parliament. In many parliaments, people fight, we fight, we fight, we fight, we fight, but we're sure we won't fight, we won't fight. And that's why the messages that were sent from this place today are bad messages. When I see how we function, which citizen of this country will trust that we will be in a crisis situation and it can become a crisis overnight, trust that we will make the right decisions. This is just about the efficiency of possible sudden events and nothing else. But that it will be misused so let's not function on the paranoid model that everything is wrong. This is the functioning of a paranoid model. So we see in advance that something terrible is going to happen. So what can happen if we watch war, if we watch the behaviour of the Croatian army? And finally, now I'm going to say something that I haven't said in public by now. I personally thank the Serbs at the refugee camp in Knin for taking care of them. I personally have that thank you. So do you think there are people here who would want the military to choke on human rights, the freedom of ethical communities and to do away with democracy? But a democracy that opens up the possibility of serious abuse of democracy, obstruction even if it's not good in parliament. And that's why I think dear Pecnik, where he is, has disappeared, as far as humanity is concerned, don't teach me. For everyone in this House of Refugees, I am obliged here to receive twice as many, two. Whoever takes one, I'll take two. But keep in mind that the sense of security that this law strengthens in this truly turbulent story is extremely important. And thirdly, it seems to me that we've been talking, so it's actually as we talked about a song by Silvio Strahimir Kranjčević, who ironifies the situation when he's being made of insignificant in exchange for the thesis, so in this song, he's not talking about the rabbit, he's talking about the smokes, and he's finally saying it's not the problem that the rabbit has the smokes, but he's saying where they believe he doesn't yell out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6005	I'd like to thank you, counsel. The replica was presented by the esteemed representative, Mr Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6006	Thank you, Madam President, dear colleague Dodig. I'd like to look back on the two things you said. So, first I'm going to take this second one you said about militarization. So I'm not experiencing at all that militarization is something bad. I think that the armies in the world have a significant role, it is described also in our Constitution and there are circumstances in which a little more use of the military and the circumstances in which a little less or no use of the army is required. And in that sense, the word militarization is not necessarily bad. What I'm thinking is that at this point there's no need to use the army because the situation is at least from a point of view of security and the protection of sovereignty better than it was a few months ago. And that's why I think this is actually a disproportionate response from the government to the refugee crisis and the parliamentary majority. As far as constitutionality is concerned, that's what you said at the beginning of your presentation. I don't think that's the point at this point. I believe that the state is run by the Parliament and the Government and not by the courts, and if there is a will of the Croatian Parliament to make this constitutional law he will amend the Constitution, then he will make such a law. Therefore, in this country, the parliament is the government, the government is proposing, but the parliament is the government, the parliamentary majority stems from the parliament. So far, we are basically all decisions concerning the Armed Forces regardless of when someone was in power, and when the opposition was making a consensus, and I think this is one step that is not needed. So, if the circumstances are such that the situation gets worse, that this law can always be passed, I just don't think it should be brought now, and maybe it won't be needed later.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6007	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Dodig's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6008	The reply to the replica, this should be a new discussion. I think it's necessary. Militaryization may be true what you're saying and I accept that it is, but in our perception, public militarization is a bad phenomenon.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6009	Thank you very much. The following call came to the hearing by a representative, a representative from Mrs. Sobol reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6010	Thank you, Madam Chairman, colleague Dodig. You said we're working on a paranoid model here today. I could say that it seems to me that the government with these bill proposals works on a paranoid model. You could say the other way around. Because if it is peacetime, if, according to the Minister and Deputy Minister Croatia is not directly threatened, then I see no reason why these two laws are being amended by an urgent procedure. I continue to argue that they are contrary to the Constitution and that they are actually bringing peacetime without need because we have not seen, nor heard, an army at national borders. They open up the possibility of bringing the army to state borders and, in fact, these laws, so for an indefinite period of time, to say so to the executive authorities, to individuals in the executive government to make decisions about sending the army to state borders. And I'm sorry, I don't have confidence, I don't have as much trust as a parliamentary representative that eventually one day can't have the same army being abused. Otherwise, today is a very legitimate debate as much as anyone seems paranoid, but it is legitimate and all those who thought that the bill would pass in a peaceful atmosphere, kicking or that we would be silent and that we would not complain and ask for explanations were wrong. I think that citizens of all of us expect to talk about this problem very much in the Croatian Parliament all day long, if necessary all night.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6011	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6012	Representatives, if anyone here says it's a prelude and ready for a coup, then I think it's a paranoid story. So, so much for that. That the military is the place where you're not in favor of the military being a place on the border might be their place in the barracks, and that's what I agree with. But actually the most natural place is the army on the border, the army is obliged to defend borders, borders. That is the problem, it is required, especially in a situation where border guards, border police, customs and similar services assess that they are not strong enough to carry out the task at a certain point. The assessment and analysis stems from the facts we face every day. The analysis you're talking about, I don't know how you'd spend it. There's a lot of information to support the justification of this law. If you think that an analysis of an agency's polling public opinion is 600 respondents, then I assure you it's a public that we often take as a relevant fact for certain things. These people, finally the interior minister who has been permanently in relation to all EU interior ministers, have come to the conclusion that this is a good solution. There's the beginning and the end of the story. I believe, otherwise what kind of government I won't trust in advance at all. Fearing some abuse to the point where we paralyze the law doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6013	The next one was answered by Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6014	I'm also replicating what you said, dear colleague Dodig, let's not function on a paranoid phenomenon. But I'm asking you a question, or I'm replicating you to it, and why don't you believe the Constitution that said under what conditions? Is that paranoid behavior? You're saying I trust the government how it's going to work. You know fellow honor to everyone, faith to anyone. That's what our Constitution says. Our constitution is written so for every government, not this one or that one. Imagine tomorrow the government comes for you don't give God the SDPs. And she's as kind as she is, so people are threatened and she doesn't send it under this law, she thinks there's no need to send an army at all. You know, that's how it is when we look or when we leave the Constitution, then everything is allowed. Because you can't do the law for yourself. After all, if that's how it is if you say I trust the Minister, I trust my government, so why are we even discussing the law. We don't even need the law. What do we need the Constitution for, what do we need the law for when we have the HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6015	Replication response, Mr. Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6016	Mrs. Lovrinović, here we had opposing views whether it was in accordance with the Constitution or not. I'm just saying that a metric body that's supposed to do that in such situations is going to do that. And you're saying don't let God get me to come as you said the SDP government. Oh, God, come and be good. What are we talking about? Well, that makes all the difference in our seeing the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6017	And the last replica of this exhibition, Mr. Representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6018	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow counsel and professors of psychiatry for me... Well, I wanted to be polite, and you wouldn't let me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. I'm worried about your sense of uncertainty, that's what I'm worried about. And you know why I'm worried? Do you have any information that we on this left if we're looking from the forehead we don't understand? So, do we not know any information that you know? How did that sense of insecurity come to pass? The second thing, the use of force is always a sign of weakness. So when you go to some weak ones with powerful tools, you're really showing a sign of weakness. It's that famous Dalai Lama saying, I didn't make it up. So, when we meet these unfortunate refugees with long pipes, a bullet in the pipe, do we welcome them, in what way? Another thing, when tourists come through that same border when it's formed, it's not just refugees we're not going to let them go, but we're going to let tourists go but with a long pipe. I was specifically in Israel where in that.../You don't understand./... they go long pipes all the time, two in one direction, two in the other direction. But despite those long pipes, I didn't feel safe. But I will return to the beginning of my story, why do you feel insecure to use weapons at the border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6019	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6020	Because we have information every day, I personally have, and maybe it's my problem, I have daily information about how many people die every day in terrorist attacks, how many people are threatened, and what is actually the world's policy that is today such that there are no more parts of the country that are not in any way out of danger. Why do you think soldiers with long pipes will be inhuman to refugees? Who guarantees you that there will be no state policy such that it will indeed be recorded and that we will receive again and that we will release them through Croatia? What makes you think they're necessarily going to come back and shoot them? That's the problem. I don't think it will be done by the Croatian police or the Croatian military.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6021	Thank you. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6022	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. It wasn't long ago when the new policy, the new ruling policy said we'd lift the wire and send the army to the border. It was then that voices called for a change in the constitution. However, this is ignored, and that is why we are discussing these bill proposals today. I will again stick to the Constitution as a drunken float and quote Article 7, "The armed forces may, if the nature of the executioners so requires, use as help in the police and other state bodies on the condition of Articles 17 and 101.". What does article 17 say? At a time of war or immediate threat, therefore even when the war is a threat, the Croatian Parliament must discuss it and decide on it by a two-thirds majority. It is only then that if the Croatian Parliament cannot meet immediately on a proposal from the Government and, with the signing of the Prime Minister and President of the Republic, it will make such a decision, but the scope of the restrictions must be appropriate in any case, it all writes in the Constitution to the nature of the execution. Furthermore, for the consequence, there can be no inequality of persons with respect to race, given the colour of the skin, sex, language, religion, national or social origin. Therefore, all the conditions for the conduct of the army other than those given to it are settled in the Defence Act in this civilian part of the support. But still, you and those have a new foothold in the Constitution. So it is said: "The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia can also be used to help in fire protection, rescue and surveillance and protect the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea.". So even when it's a fire, if there was no constitution, the law couldn't solve it, let alone send an army to the border, of course under arms without the support of the Constitution. Or ignoring the Constitution. Now I understand the whole context that you've all talked about and no one can ignore it, with all our humanity, we've shown it and we don't need to talk about it specifically. Perhaps we should be reminded, however, that it is possible to present the situations on which you, Mr. Minister, and of which the Deputy Minister spoke of happening. And then, they can indeed pose a threat to Croatia in any form. And then again for that, if that kind of decision were to come, it couldn't be the law, and we got rid of the Parliament. No, that's what you're now chairman, Vice President of the Parliament talking about. No one, no government can take these prerogatives given to the Assembly on the basis of the Constitution to be decided by the two-thirds majority. So 101 must decide us, for any such action, 101, not 20, as many as there are in the government or just the prime minister. That's what this is about. And we for such a species have no doubt that you will have any time, any time support. Now what the article says, see when it goes, when one mistake is made, then another error is made immediately. Article 174 is not respected. The Rules of Procedure which states what the content of the proposal of each law must have, as well as the one to be adopted by an emergency procedure. In addition to the draft law, the applicant will also submit a report on the consultation of the interested public. And that's what the special law says, the Public Information Act. So these are all the conditions that should have been respected. The whole debate was being held here, so we trust the Croatian military, we trust the Croatian police. It is true that we believe but the Croatian Army is working on someone's orders and we know by the Constitution who orders the military in such situations. We forgot that. So this is a matter of politics and where we send an army and under what conditions. I will now say something in general, not for this authority, not for the past power, not for the future, but in general. Insecure is the power that in everything and everything, should not be naive but in everything and everything sees great danger and great threat. You see when HDZ came in 2004, or Sanader was prime minister, his first decision was banned in Mark's square, in this square, and the justification was a threat to terrorism. That was in the light of that proposal. And in fact, the reason was that, you can get together, so tourists were allowed to gather but not protesters. So you can come celebrate me but you can't waste it. So there should be very, very careful. Now I'm going to quote you, not to say that these are mine, Pope Francis, who says, to close the border on refugees, people in trouble, it's a war crime. This is what representatives of all the largest religious communities in the Republic of Croatia said, which was first signed by the president of the Croatian Bishop's Conference Dr. Jelimir Puljic and other representatives of the Church and Patriarch and representatives of the Jewish church and others. They say this, let's remind, and refugees are our brothers and sisters looking for a home far from their country. Let us remember during the difficult days of war when many of our citizens were in a difficult situation and many countries and good people helped them. We and our people who selflessly helped the pride of the entire Croatian refugees are the people who have suffered the greatest trouble. It's a pity that the new government came in as soon as it lifted the volunteers' warm meal. So it was already a signal where we're going. Furthermore, the Croatian Bishop's Conference itself says. Culture of warmth and compassion, brotherhood and solidarity, borders cannot be greater than life and dignity of people. Now, that must be our first thought, so if any major threat threatens us. Refugees, well, we all know that they're running from war, and they don't want war, and among them, that between us inside the country, that among tourists can be terrorists, can be a man with malicious intentions, that's true. But we can't look at a potential danger in every man like that. This is an opportunity for us to call also responsibility here in the Croatian Parliament, namely to mention without any shame the responsibility of the EU. What has been happening in Italy for years, so no one has helped the EU country. The question of the Lampetuse and the refugee, there was only her problem. No one in Europe then, Croatia is not guilty of anything. Croatia was not even in the EU at the time. When Italy was the country president we're the only ones who understand that because it's close to us. And not only because it is near but we really are, that the people of Croatia in all these times and citizens in all their difficult times have shown their great heart and humanity and that is unquestionable. And that's what I would say about our people and our citizens. The EU's Mare Nostrum project has fully experienced a fiasco. Even at that time, the Italian law under the threat of criminal responsibility prevented the aid of such people. A dramatic situation was the confession of a fishing captain who ended up in an Italian court, saving pregnant women several men and five children. He showed up in front of the judge and you know what he said to him when he asked if he felt guilty? And he raised his hands and he said, "Look, these hands have done a lot of good in their lives," but what I've done seems to me like I've never done a better deed. He was convicted, however, but the Supreme Court changed its policy, despite the law he changed practice and since then there has been no more crime. This has spread, therefore, and aid has proved to be immeasurable and necessary in the name of humanity, instead of philanthropy, and especially because these people are not guilty of anything, and many in Europe and some countries are. As far as it's concerned, it's not a question here, it's a bigger topic. So, in what we've been experiencing for the past few months, really, our police and our citizens there have proven that So they proved to be at the height of their professional and human task. [[Intrudica Pusić: Fellow Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6023	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6024	Thank you very much. Well, through this whole debate is actually going through a thread of constitutionality of the law, and there are really very serious doubts that this law could hardly suffer the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court. And of course the Constitutional Court is the only place where we can in principle expect a decision whether it is or not stopped. I must admit that I do not share the concern that this law would be unconstitutional, because it seems to me, in fact, that as often as we see our Constitution or any law, we can find the situation that there are certain gaps, certain even contradictions within the law. Well, that's the best thing we've ever seen since the election when in some situations we didn't really know how to do, what's the right. These laws don't mean tomorrow's army at the border. These laws mean that if the police consider it necessary, the police are actually giving the initiative and the decision is taken by the government, with the constitutional prior consent of the president. I don't think that's unconstitutional. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution where the Armed Forces are said to protect the unity of the territorial Republic of Croatia, and this includes the border, the overall border of this and the territory, I think the police can definitely ask here for the help of the Armed Forces and that this should not be advertised in a possible procedure unconstitutional. We have even one control provision, that the Customs Administration participates in the surveillance. The Customs Administration also participates in border control and control. If we go by this logic, we might as well ask that question whether it is in accordance with the Constitution. I think these laws are in the spirit of our entire system where I agree there are these exceptions, but this is something special, this is something different. And if we get to that, we can ask if it's in the spirit of the system. This is definitely in the spirit of the system, but of course it is my opinion as you have the right to your own, and the Constitutional Court is clearly the only statement that will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6025	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs Antičević Marinović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6026	The constitution is so clear, dear fellow I can call you that because you're my double colleague, he doesn't need a special interpretation. Just read it. So when you break one provision, then you will break the other. You see, now you're saying the police will give orders in these cases to the military. It defends the Constitution. So the final paragraph of Article 7 says this: "Defense structure, command and control of the Armed Forces is governed by the Constitution", and the Constitution determines who does it. There's how we get from one trouble to another. So, what I'm trying to achieve is I'm saying you need to withdraw this law or change the Constitution so you can specify it or interpret it, and that may have been a threat to anyone and anything that the Constitution also predicts, and therefore it is necessary for the government's proposal, of course, the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6027	Thank you. My colleague Bauk gave up on the replica because he's having an argument, thank you. The next is to discuss Mr. Peja Grbin's representative. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6028	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I'm going to have to start this debate in a slightly different way than I originally planned this morning or yesterday when I applied for it. In fact, during the debate it was often said about Slovenia, and it was said that when Slovenia can send an army to the border, why couldn't Croatia? However, it is very easy to respond to that thesis, and the answer to that thesis stems from the fact that Croatia and Slovenia are not the same. Croatia and Slovenia are not the same state, Croatia and Slovenia do not have the same Constitution and our Constitution, our basic legal acts regulate this issue in a different way. You see, Slovenia has sent an army to the border. There was a lot of noise about it, and we rebelled because it was actually strange enough for one NATO member state and the EU to send an army to the border with another NATO member state and the EU, which should at least be an ally on paper. And we weren't happy about it. In Croatia, however, we were not the only ones who were disputed that Slovenia would send troops to its border. The decision is that the military will be sent to the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia taken nowhere but in the Parliament of Slovenia. On 22 February this year, the Slovenian Parliament held a debate on it and debated the whole day, although the decision was eventually made by 68 votes to 5 against. Slovenia in this situation was not a problem to send to the Slovenian Parliament and discuss it. But what decision did the Slovenian Parliament make? Not the kind we will make if we adopt this law, that we give a permanent right to the executive to decide on the use of the army at the borders of the Republic of Croatia but has decided that this deployment of the army of the Republic of Slovenia at the border is set for a period of 3 months. So much for Slovenia. Now about Croatia. She spoke of it by her colleague Anticevic and many before me, but when the laws are so clearly anti-constitutional, so clearly opposed to a very clear constitutional norm then should be discussed again. Because it is our mission as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, even if the debate lasted all day. Because it is not often to transfer the powers of the Croatian Parliament in the executive power in this way. In the case of this law, two reasons are to support the issue of its counterconstitution. The first is, of course, Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and I will read it here, because I think it is important that it enters the minutes but hopefully also in someone's ears, paragraph 8. of that article. And he says, "In the cases provided for in Articles 17 and 101. The Armed Forces Constitution may, if it requires the nature of the executioners, use it to assist the police and other state bodies." So the Constitution allows now, and now allows what you propose to this law. But when? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution. There is another situation in the Constitution. For example, aid and fire protection or sea surveillance are one and they are in the Constitution in Article 7 of that article, paragraph 9. There are also third situations, such as sending our armed forces to peacekeeping missions. And beware now, that the sending of two soldiers from Croatia who will take care of the surveillance of pirate activities in the Indian Ocean at the Operation Centre in Dibuti, this House has to decide by half the majority of all MPs every year. Two soldiers inDibuta. One soldier in Malta. This is what we're discussing here, here we're voting on it by half the majority of all the MPs. A battalion on the Croatian border tells me about what you suggested here we do not have to be informed. That's what you suggested in this law. And whatever you think about it, we have the right in the Croatian Parliament but also the obligation to discuss such problems. And we have certain special rights to take action if we gather in sufficient numbers, and I am convinced that we will, against this law, take action before the Constitutional Court. ... Don't think you're distracting me, but I'm enjoying your voice, which is also heard without a microphone on this side of the hall. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The other problem with the constitutionality of this law is the issue of his proposal. And that's where we return to one question that has been raised here, which is a matter of authority to propose this law. The government unquestionably has the authority to propose any law that it thinks is necessary. No one can argue with that. However, in our legislative system, although relatively recently for the Government, it seems to me that it was Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, we brought the Code of Consulting with the interested public. That was a big step. This step continues with the adoption of the Law on the right to access information. This Regulation shall enter The law on the right to access information provides for the obligation to conduct consultations with the interested public in the adoption of each regulation. I know it's relatively recent, and I am aware that the previous government, the government of Zoran Milanovic and the SDP government had problems conducting this consultation with the interested public. However, it was spent some 100 times more often than it was conducted earlier during Mrs Kosor's term of office. However, at the position of the Constitutional Court, not often enough has been carried out. And the Constitutional Court is in its decision number U-2-1304. in 2013 in the case of, and I would say, a significantly less important regulation takes the view that it is a sufficiently important act to carry out consultations with the interested public was necessary to assume its validity. We, I think we've also established through this debate and through the fact that at times when the people's inflow to our borders was the largest we've ever faced with this tide without using the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, we've found through that fact that this isn't the law that we have to pass today, on Friday or Monday, that we can wait a little bit. I therefore ask you to correct this mistake and make sure that this law does not fall because there is no public debate. I'll conclude, I'm not one of those just critics, I try not to be like that. I have proposed two amendments to these draft laws that I propose to correct and comply with the provisions of our Constitution. In both these two amendments, I quote an explicit provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which refers precisely to the situation provided for by this law, which is a situation in which, in some ways, the Armed Forces are placed under police jurisdiction in order to assist them. Please consider adopting these amendments, please also consider this second remark that I have pointed out to you regarding the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the right to access information. If you do not, you do not have to doubt at all that these laws will end in the Constitutional Court because I am now telling you that I will be the one to write a request for the Constitutional Court's assessment and I hope that I will be joined by a sufficient number of colleagues in this Chamber that it becomes such a type of act under which the Constitutional Court, by force of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court must decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6029	Thank you. The replica was reported by Mr. Representative Maro Kristic. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6030	Dear counterpart Grbin, I am sure after the Croatian Parliament adopts these amendments on Friday or Monday to supplement the law that after an assessment of the constitutionality that you begin to show that the Croatian Parliament was right when these amendments were adopted and the amendments to the law. So this is about preventing potential threats to the state's borders due to possible illegal breaking of migrants due to closed borders, not sending an army to state borders and threatening citizens with any kind of coup. As of today's most measured speakers, we could hear that all regulated countries have a synergy in the actions of police and military and other security services. So there's no talk here about militarisation of the country that some have tried to demonstrate to potential military manipulation by the government. Our army has throughout history proven to be a victorious, organized, human army. And the purpose of this amendment to the law is to increase the efficiency of military security in the event of exceptional circumstances. Acceptance of migrants and care for them is quite another matter in which this government, together with the Croatian Army and all others, and the police and many volunteers have shown a great humanitarian dimension. And I'm sure in the event of any reopening of the borders, they'll confirm it again. No tourism or any other activity will be compromised by this. However, this further strengthens the national security system and shows that we are quickly and efficiently ready to deal with all the challenges. Of course, today's debates could have heard about the failures of adoption and the changed National Security Strategy, which has not changed since 2002 and of course we will insist that this strategy be adopted as quickly as possible and brought into line with the real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6031	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Grbin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6032	Thank you, Madam President. My friend, I don't know who you've replicated, but I'm sure you haven't, I haven't mentioned a single word about a coup, and I can't think of a word to say about it, and now I have to say that word just because you've made it possible. I was talking about other things, I was talking about the law-making process prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the right to access information and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I took part in a negotiation with the Most Independent Lists in the section relating to this part of the political system, and you then asked for mandatory consultation with the interested public for at least 30 days at the time of the adoption of each regulation that will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. At this point, I am proposing what I was only talking about, and only potential what you insisted on in negotiations when forming a coalition that preceded the formation of the Croatian government. So, I'm in a situation right now, I can tell the schizophrenic situation that I'm defending you with what you asked for, because you're attacking what you insisted two months ago, and that's consulting with an interested public within at least 30 days before the regulation is passed. That's one thing. The second thing, I'm not questioning that it's possible that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a month or two months, there will be such a threat that would require such measures as we've been talking about all day. That's possible and no one in their right mind can rule it out for me either. I just want to tell you that we have a regulated situation at this point in time in a regulation called, perhaps you've heard of it, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In Article 7 of that Constitution. And we can now decide two things, are we going to change Article 7. The Constitution and then install into it what you have suggested or we will pass a law that is contrary to that Constitution. The third one's gone, here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6033	Thank you very much. The next call came from Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6034	Thank you. Comrade Grbin, you mentioned that the previous government had some problems with conducting consultations with the interested public although a hundred times as much as it did before. And you said the bad news to the applicants, which is that not conducting a consultation with the public interested in this law so that the Constitutional Court could assess that this is a regulation for which consultation with the interested public should be conducted. The good news for the minister is that because of the changes and for the defence minister, too, and perhaps for the government now I don't know how it would be a case of court practice, that, before the amendment of that law, both of us would end the judge for violations of the non-compliance with the public interest, and then, on behalf of the Government, we would, in the name of the amendment to the Law on the right to access to information, abolish the abuse of NGOs, transfer it to ourselves, so that in negotiations with the Most and NGOs that criticised us for amending that law, put it in their negotiating platform, and then I explained to them that perhaps the state would be paralyzed in that way. So that's the one you really said schizophrenic situation. I therefore consider that this law should have been consulted by the interested public, because the situation is not such as to require an immediate, rapid and immediate reaction without consulting the interested public, without public debate, without two readings of the law and with that revolutionary provision of the law to enter into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. Just so we're wearing the presidents on the same day to sign and right away, to print a special number of People's Newspapers if it's such a crisis situation for us to finish the story and round up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6035	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Grbin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6036	Well, you've got me a somewhat respected colleague, Bauk, misrepresented. I said that during the term of office of the Government in which you have participated and where, despite your strong opposition, you have insisted on the Law on the right to access information precisely in this form of which I have supported you, and it means for the term of office of that Government a hundred times more consultations with the interested public than it was for the previous term, and yet there was an assessment that there was a problem with the implementation of the institute. And that assessment is embedded in the Constitutional Court's decision, which I quoted, which is available to everyone on the Web pages of the Constitutional Court. I have the Minister and Deputy Minister here, so the Minister of the Interior and the Deputy Minister of Defence. I'm going to ask you to look at the decision, I'm going to repeat its number U-2-1304/2013. Look for point 9 of that decision and read what the Constitutional Court stated in that point and why these laws should be adopted in this form with this degree of public debate that is zero risk falling in the Constitutional Court alone. Neither me nor anyone on this side of the assembly, and I believe it or my colleagues on the other hand, is in the interest that we have a series of laws that fall due to their constitutionality. And I'm sure ministers in many things you've said I'd excellently start a mandate and you'll enjoy the support of all of us. I really wouldn't want such a good start to be said to be marred by the fact that your first legal proposal to be discussed in the Chamber was brought down in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6037	Thank you. Next is the debate Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6038	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Deputy Minister. In fact, these two laws do not speak and are not the main subject of these two laws, but of the government and the state of Croatia's policies towards the refugee crisis. I said in the previous part of the debate that I believe that the policy that has been so far since the fall of last year is good in the existing normative framework and that the normative framework should not be changed. And that's why I'm against changing these two laws. Whether the lawyers consider that they are in accordance with the Constitution or that they should be implemented, the Constitution should be amended. If it's necessary to change the Constitution, we'll change it, if that's the case. I don't mind using the army in a refugee crisis if necessary, but I don't think so. If it was not necessary at the beginning of the crisis and in the middle when a large number of refugees came to the Republic of Croatia, held back for a while and moved on, then it is certainly not necessary today. I'm going to say one more sentence with the danger of being misquoted, which is that I have nothing against wire at the borders if necessary. That is also what the former Prime Minister said in one situation, which would be the case. But deep down, I don't think that's necessary. That's why I'm also not going to be able to amend these two laws because of a certain fear that eventually the military might be used in that sense, and I hope it won't. Therefore, if I thought it necessary, then I would support these amendments to the law. I say either with the amendment to the Constitution, or without. What is still the problem with these laws is that these laws do not have a limited duration, so that we know that in three, five, eight, twelve, twenty-four months we will have opportunities to discuss these laws again in the Croatian Parliament, or that we will analyse what happened in recent times and that we will then be able to see if we should extend even if we revote each time. However, it can then be settled in a way that every three months because this is allowed by the Rules of Procedure or by six to propose a law on the termination of these two laws, and then we will discuss it in that way. It's the same business opportunity. There were some rhetorical figures that slightly raised adrenaline in the assembly. It's the mention of a coup and a certain kind of state of emergency. So then I said I wouldn't use the term "emergency" but especially so I wouldn't imply any other condition. Indeed, in his explanation, the government is saying that we are now in a special state as a result of the migrant crisis and that there is a certain concern that we should also be with the military if sovereignty is to be protected. I don't think we're in that condition, so this is a disproportionate response to the challenges that this crisis is putting on us right now. Is it going to be different in four months? We can discuss this in four months. Because I'm saying if it wasn't a problem when the migrants first appeared in Tovarnik, then it's even less of a problem now. Then we had what we had first placed them there at the Hotel Porin or where they were, and then it turned out that this system was no longer an answer to the crisis, so we reorganized in walking, founded this first in Opatovac, and then in Slavonski Brod and spent it in a way probably the best of all our neighbours. Now to change the policy we call upon them, we call upon ourselves worse than we are. That's what bothers me. So I don't think this is necessary. As far as the word and term of the coup is concerned, it is a rhetorical figure often used without a military coup or anything else. So I don't think they needed to be exactly that kind of reaction. But one species where institutions are deprived of some powers and handed over to others in a way that some believe is not exactly in line with the Constitution then a milder form of the expression of a coup may not be so, but I will not now look in the Croatian dictionary that would be a more appropriate expression. Namely, what's this about? We say through the debate it is seen therefore that we protect the citizens, their safety and that we will therefore give the executive authority the opportunity to put the army at the borders. With all due respect, I think the greater threat to the safety of citizens is hooligans and cheerleading groups than migrants. Well, then let's spread the power of the army and to that, so that we can keep the games so we can use the army for that too. If the Constitution doesn't give us boundaries, then it doesn't even give us protection at the games. So let's just be totally in that sense, let's do everything. So it's so dangerous to interpret articles 7 and 17 and 101 extensively. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia so as to extend the possibility of using the army in that case that someone can really think of using the army to protect anything. We got '91. one such case. There is no need in this sense to go so widely into legal and constitutional interpretations. And at the end of the law-making process, perhaps in October and September 2015 the atmosphere was such that if a government had proposed it, and our government did not, but from the opposition at the time it was the idea to propose it, there was more justification that the law was going by emergency procedure and this way as it goes. Now, in my opinion, there's no excuse for that. And this can indeed be a great argument to those who will dispute from this aspect the adoption of this law in the Constitutional Court. If the promoters speak of the fact that there may never be any consummated powers of the Government, the President of the Republic and the police of this law that it is not such a situation now, because that, and perhaps the Minister can say in the final word, if such a situation is possible, can you predict when the powers of the police will be consumed and after the military under this law? So if it's going to be the first day after the law comes into force then at least we know it's your assessment that it needs to be done urgently. If you say it may never be, it's a counterargument that this law goes in this way. So four things are accelerated. No consultation with interested public, no first reading and entry into force on the first day of publication in the National Journal. And the fourth is that it is no longer the situation at our eastern borders as it was in September and October. If the crisis, I repeat, so I have nothing against using the military to solve this refugee crisis, but I don't think that's the case, I have nothing against any physical barriers at the borders unless there's another solution, hoping that I won't be misquoted and understood, so there's a lot of other solutions, but if there's no other solution, that's one solution. And thirdly, let's not spread and extensively interpret the use of the army because it can really come to someone's mind that then the military protects first football games, citizens from hooligans, and then someone can think of something bigger. Here, Madam Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6039	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6040	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bauk, you brought out two thesises, one of them was whether to change politics towards migrants. We are a member of the EU and cannot make our own policy towards migrants. So, in line with the agreement on the treatment of migration, in particular this economic and war zones, the EU is making some kind of law or some kind of advice on what to do in the coming period. So, if we look from the beginning of the crisis, the recommendations of the European Commission are constantly changing what to do. The last recommendation might be that the cause is solved where it came from, to start building around a campus where these refugees will be placed as close to the war zone as possible so that the return period is shorter and that they can be implemented before, or that they can attend schools, so that they have all the conditions they have in other countries and are closer to their country. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6041	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6042	As far as the European Union's policy is concerned, I'm not a fan of the Brussels bureaucrats, I don't think they've been able to handle this at all. In fact, Hungary is also a member of the European Union, so it has a policy towards refugees, as I would have if I had shamed their citizen. Slovenia also has a little softer for me, but it's not exactly something to brag about. And I hope that the policy of the government of Tihomir Oreskovic towards the refugee crisis will be closer to the policy of the government of Zoran Milanovic than the politics of the government of Viktor Orban. Both are members of the European Union, but I hope that regardless of good relations before the amount and some pilgrimage in Budapest that we will not solve the refugee crisis in this way. So far, the Republic of Croatia has indeed done well in this refugee crisis with the existing normative framework, and I am therefore against changing the existing normative framework in response to the refugee crisis. And I will repeat myself in that sense less interested in whether this law is constitutional or not. If it is not constitutional, we change the Constitution if it requires the situation and now it does not require it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6043	Thank you very much. Finally, the final five minutes on behalf of the SDP club Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6044	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, Deputy Minister. Finally, after a full-day debate, I would once again like to repeat on behalf of the SDP club, which is why we in the SDP will be against the adoption of these two draft laws. First, Article 7. The Constitution does not provide any legal basis for the proposed additions to the Defence Act. The proposed amendments to the law go beyond the constitutional powers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The current security situation does not provide in any of its elements the grounds for the urgency of the procedure and the adoption of amendments to these two laws. The proposed additions will in no case contribute to more effective management of the refugee crisis. The proposed additions are not an appropriate solution to the challenges facing us today or tomorrow will set up a refugee crisis. The proposed addition of the law, both laws were not adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 204 concerning Article 174, which is required to provide, in addition to the draft law, a report on the consultation of the interested public and what has not been done. Through these two draft laws, the government has neither defined the scope of activity, equipment and the like, nor the time of the armed forces' engagement in the exercise of police powers, but they have been left at the verdict, the free judgment of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. The implementation of the proposed amendments to the law as long as we were tried to convince ourselves of the opposite requirement of additional funding from the state budget for the needs of the Armed Forces. And we witnessed, yesterday we had a debate on the budget that, that the budget of the IORH was reduced, that we were sending a wrong message to our citizens, that constitutional competences related to the Armed Forces could change beyond constitutional procedures and beyond public debates. With the proposed changes, we send the wrong message to the democratic world, the message of immature democratic standards that can spread to the ordinary parliamentary majority and beyond the Constitution police jurisdiction and to an army that is not subject to civil supervision in the same way as the police. And finally, we send the wrong message to the refugees themselves, a message that they are no longer welcome and that we are no longer ready to give them the rights that belong to them under all international conventions. After today's debate, I think everyone should be clear or it'll be clear, we borders can't hermetically close, we can't hermetically shut them down. That way, we won't solve any new possible refugee crisis, a stream of refugees. That way, we can only push them deeper into the hands of organised crime. Today, we were also assured here that the army at the border did not mean that the military would use weapons in the event of the need for illegal crossings. But you know, an army on the border without orders to fire, possibly on those who, possibly unauthorized, cross is a threat with an empty rifle that returns as a boomerang to the one who threatens. And such an order in democratic states is not clear to us who would be able to give it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6045	Thank you very much. This is what we've ended the debate. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6046	Honored vice presidents, respected parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. Regardless of the differences shown today in approach to solving this problem, I will indeed notice what may have been rare tonight and this is one commonity and determination to protect the interest and security of the Republic of Croatia. Access is obviously different, but I'm glad I noticed that one component. The approach would point out that the potential problem also involves the potential strengths that are necessary. As we will define them and position them formally, I agree that there may be a dilemma and there should be and there should be discussions like this. In any case, thank you for this debate and I hope, regardless of all the differences that we will support this law because it is in the spirit of a solution, that this potential problem should also have a potential answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6047	Thank you. I'm a colleague of the Bauk Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6048	I didn't know you'd be so short. Mr. Minister, I'm going to use the Replica Institute to ask you directly to answer my question, was there a better policy towards refugees by the Government of Zoran Milanovic or Victor Orban?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6049	Thank you. Minister, do you want to answer or do you understand that as a rhetorical question? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Deputy, do you want anything? In that case, I would like to thank the Minister and the Deputy Minister. We're finishing today's session. Tomorrow we begin at 9.30 a.m. by discussing the final draft of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 7:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6050	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Act supplementing the State Border Control Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 11. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Peja Grbin and the Legislative Committee. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. It is the esteemed Davor Blažević Deputy Minister of the Interior. First of all, Amendment No. 1. of Honored Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6051	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. Explanation. The amendment submitted by Peja Grbin shall not be accepted, given that the situation which wishes to be normised by the proposed supplement does not relate to the situations provided for in Articles 17 and 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to which the representative of the coat of arms points. In fact, the current migration crisis facing and European states is a new situation that cannot be undermined under the constitution of the envisaged situation provided for in Articles 17 and 101, which the Armed Forces can also provide to the police. The emphasis is on brand new emergency situations where the need for armed forces to support police when certain circumstances exceed the capacity of police, which must be based on an analysis of the risks to internal security and the assessment of threats that could endanger border safety and the potential outbreak of the humanitarian crisis due to high pressure from migrants at the state border. In this connection, it is also pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia, the EU concept of integrated governance of the state border is based on enhanced interagency cooperation between all relevant services and state bodies. The following shows the need to include the newly created circumstances as one of the participants in interagency cooperation and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, such a form of cooperation already exists. Since the Coast Guard Act requires the role of the Coast Guard as part of the Armed Forces in protecting the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea, so the Armed Forces already participate in the protection of the state border at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6052	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6053	Your Honor, Deputy. I am extremely pleased that you have said this last sentence, and in that last sentence you have fully explained how the proposed law violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For this last sentence falls within the scope of Article 7 paragraph 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks of the fact that the Armed Forces can support when? In the case of protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea, Article 7 paragraph 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, Article 7(10) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, not Articles 17 and 101, speak of all other situations where the Armed Forces should assist the police and other state bodies. And do you know what Article 7 paragraph 10 is? The Constitution says? That such assistance in Croatia, not Slovenia, not Hungary, not Austria, not Serbia, in Croatia, is only allowed in the situations referred to in Articles 17 and 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And you know why? To make such assistance is decided by the Croatian Parliament. We explained very closely to you on Wednesday, which is why it's unconstitutional. You disobeyed us, and now I will quote one of my colleagues by the profession of a lawyer who is a professor at the Department of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb. I quote: "The general concept by which the Armed Forces would play the role of providing police support is permitted by the Constitution. However, this type of assistance is strictly linked to the existence of the situation referred to in Articles 17 and 101. The Constitution. In other words, in order for these laws to be constitutional in them, it is necessary to install a formulation in the sense in which it is proposed to the amendments. You don't have to listen to me, listen to your waist. Otherwise, we know who's going to decide. I demand a vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6054	Thank you very much. We will join the vote on the amendment of the honourable representative of Peja Grbin, who is not accepted by the government. Please, let's vote. Who's up for the amendment? The vote is over. I find that the proposed amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. The next second amendment is that of the Legislative Committee. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6055	Thank you very much. Dear President, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-16-0.u6056	That's how he becomes part of the law. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am now voting. You may, Deputy. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the State Border Control Act. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the 79 votes were adopted, i.e. the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Control of the State Border. My colleagues and colleagues, good morning! I suggest we start working. And before we go to the first point, one notice to the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. So, a session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system will be held today at 14.00 am in the hall of Stjepan Radić that is 133 on the first floor. And now we'd like to go to the first point of today's, which is - the final draft law on the completion of the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 19. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Health Dr Dario Nakic. Here you go.
