ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7012	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I am looking for a break on behalf of the club of 10 minutes on the subject of a natural disaster that has been hit by orchards, vineyards and warlords of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7013	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7014	Dear Mr. President, I demand a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSU Club and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina to discuss the current absurdities, unfortunately in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7015	Okay, big and wide subject, it's hard for me to conclude, but we'll hear it. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7016	Thank you. So, before you take my word and give me a warning, I would like to request a 10-minute break for the SDP club to talk about new Croatian patient charges. Because this government is obviously the only one fighting, you don't know who's working on who's head and who's in charge. Well, until they agree, they're living on Croatian patients. We're asking to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7017	Thank you. Honored representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7018	We are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the HNS Club and it is related to the visit of the Council of Europe Commissioners and its views on the state of human rights and media freedoms in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7019	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rose Vukovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7020	I would also like to ask for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most and the right to speak on the subject of the crisis in the livestock sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7021	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7022	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am asking for a break to discuss the laws that were neither adopted nor written and to talk about how the Assembly sessions used to be held.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7023	Thank you very much. We're obviously exhausted with that. I'm taking a break. We're now 9.37. I'll see you at 9.50. Thank you. It's 9:00.37. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] First, on behalf of the HSLS club, Buz will speak to the distinguished representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7025	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs after several days of debate on Ustashas, Partisans, media freedom, security services, I think it is time to start discussing and what bothers Croatian citizens. I volunteered for a break offered by numerous questions of fruit farmers, winemakers, warlords from the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, as well as many other counties that were hit by a terrible weather accident a few days ago. In particular, the cold caused nearly 90 to 100% of vineyard crops and fruit growers to be destroyed. Following this, all fruit growing, multi-annual production, is destroyed, the damage is greater because the fruit trees will have the first income from the next harvest only in early 2018, practically de facto people will remain 2 years without income. No matter what, in 2016, there will be no harvesting in the orchards, production continues, all agrotechnical and auxiliary operations must be performed except for the harvest, which is a large cost which is impossible to cover without the help of the competent institutions. Why did I decide to turn around? I have decided to address it because I believe that this topic and the people who are coming to me consider this topic to be completely neglected and in the shadow of everything that is happening today on a daily political scene but I must also point out that many of the mayors have already declared an elemental disaster. And what we're extremely sorry about is we're standing in a place while, for example, the same thing has happened to many neighbouring countries, many farmers, orchards and vineyards, they've managed to solve and help people in four days, while we're still groping in the place. I therefore propose the following, Your Honor, Mr Reiner, I ask you to speed up the decision-making process of the new Commission for the Assessment of the damages of the elemental disasters by your authority which you are indisputable in this high house. The Committee on Agriculture will also be held today, and I therefore ask that the responsible Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament urgently put this item on the agenda so that we already have concrete conclusions and measures to help these people today. And third, we want, i.e. We propose to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Resort Minister that, as soon as possible, this elemental disaster for the whole of the Republic of Croatia in fruit and other injured branches of agriculture is to be initiated by the European Commission for Extraordinary Support Measures, in agreement with the resolution ministries of other EU countries that have already done something about this and which have had the consequences of the cold front to launch an initiative towards the EU Solidarity Fund, which is intended to help people in this particular situation. Finally, to try within measure 5 of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development to be found under a measure to which fruit farmers could apply for a refund of lost funds. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this is very important, and I think that this way we can at least help these people to compensate for the damage they've suffered with this weather accident. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7026	Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we will be silent on behalf of the club of HSU Stipa Petrina, the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7027	Thank you, Mr. President. I have announced that I will talk about current absurdities in Croatian society and I will start in the following way, these are just some that I can now count, there are very, very many. Is it not absurd that the Government offers the European Commission work up to 67 years of age and private insurance insurance insurance companies do not provide more than 65 years of age or do so at significantly higher prices? Isn't it absurd that in a country with the great health care of Dr. Andrija Printar who has designed a system of national health and is the founder of the World Health Organization plans to conduct health care on the principle of health for the rich? Isn't it absurd that the government's obligations are planning to be transferred to the back of citizens who have paid everything neatly so far? Isn't it absurd that announcements about the purchase of an additional health insurance policy are offered to private insurance companies on the principle of the Swedish table but they only take young and healthy? Isn't it absurd that the government is growing the resources of a public insurance company that spins 1 billion dollars and 400 million pure healthy money that comes every week, every day, which brings back 88% of the collected money to the health system, and favorably looks at those who return 55% to the system and take profits in health? Isn't it absurd that in the ongoing process, because announcements of gatherings do damage to the government drank a branch on which it sits and increases its financial commitment at an annual level by 250 million kuna per year? Isn't it absurd that the government doesn't protect the public interest, under the public interest here I consider human rights, the health of citizens and state finances, and intending to tear up citizens? Isn't it absurd that no one in the government and the competent institutions wants to see the violation of the law and the benefit of private interests? Isn't it absurd that the worst government moves are being dragged into the health of the people and that the oldest citizens of the Republic of Croatia must act politically, with the general approval of the citizens and especially young people, wearing the banner of the Croatian pensioners, have collected 93 468 signatures of the citizens, and we still have little to count in 20 days. My dears, how this went quite smoothly, strengthened with our political partners, we can decide, if the Government wants to do so, on supplementary health insurance and on the future of public insurance, on the need of a public, non-profit insurance company in the Republic of Croatia to protect the availability of healthcare can also be decided in a referendum. I ask you not to keep silent those who swore that their public interest was at their heart because if they don't see it here, I don't know what they see. And remember, the greatest national wealth of a country is nothing more than the psychophysical health of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7028	On behalf of the SDP club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative of Sinish Varga. ... Please, come on, let's not throw ourselves away, let's not throw ourselves off the bench and let our colleague Varga say what he thinks. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7029	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will touch you with some topics that are very current now regarding health reforms and things that have been announced in the media but unfortunately we cannot read them completely in any document. Since 2006, it has been common practice to bring health development strategy to this respected House. That's the strategy we're working on. When the 2011 strategy expired, a new strategy was created for the period 2012 to 2020. Now we see that, let's call them the bubbles that are released into the media from the current health minister about the reforms, which adds as much insurance to participation as possible, which imposes on emergency medical attention. There are a lot of words that are unknown to patients as to what is the standard and what is above standard, and that should be clearly and loudly said that it is simply reducing the right patients. One who will have more money will have better health, one who will have less money will have worse health. This has been pre-electionally announced by the president of the HDZ Health Committee. Very clearly transmitted in the media, it was known that this is being announced and is being implemented today. When the SDP resented it both pre-electionly and pawned it with... Access, so all patients have the same right to be available to quality health services on equal grounds that there is no need to increase participation, but when we see it in the reports and by the government, we see a national reform programme and a convergence plan that supports absolutely what I'm telling you now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the reform measures and the part that was said yesterday on the National Anticancer Programme Assembly Committee, were said to have room for rationalisation within the system between 15% and 30%. Therefore, by rationalising the consumption of combined procurement and all other measures that the Government should implement in accordance with the Health Development Strategy, because this respected House has adopted the document, rather than implementing those measures, it imposes new harajos on our citizens. It's simply unacceptable to and predict in the business of hospitals in the first quarter... the way in which hospitals operate, means even without supervision and control, the new debt of these same hospitals increased by 160 million kuna and significantly higher in the first quarter of 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, however, we see what is happening with the hospital's reorganisation plan. So we have a division of society in the name of property, or property, but we also have now on a new and regional basis. So Croatia instead of the current 5 KBCs, or 4 large centres where we have equally high-quality zero and first-class medicine, regionalisation is now being introduced where only the city of Zagreb will have top-quality medicine and everything else will be regional and sub-regional hospitals. It is something that I believe that Split, Rijeka and Osijek did not deserve, these are the areas that deserve to be equally well entitled to available healthcare as well as the Zagrebs and there is no need for this new cost which has on one side citizens for travel, separation from their families but also a loss for the economy. Because a worker who travels to Zagreb in treatment loses working days, one, two, three, five days. And therefore, even in this hospital sector, we can still see everything that happens with the interruption of the start-up and the severe torment of the selected European funds to finance the arrangements of the hospital pavilions of the day hospital, especially in Virovitica, and now, after the new and in Sisak, the abolition of the availability of healthcare in areas which have hardly been invested in health for too long. And ultimately it is not Croatian money from Croatian citizens, it is free money selected from European funds with good projects, with good construction and other permits that have passed very difficult filters and the European Commission but also the Ministry of Regional Development. Finally, I will point out that the ideological divisions now between HDZ and SDP are clearly seen, we advocate this egalitarian approach, everyone's right equally to everything and HDZ advocates divisions to those who have and those who do not. We believe that this House must fight against such divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7030	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats will speak to visiting representative Nada Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7031	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats, believes it is extremely important to talk about one topic that has come up again these days as unfortunately important but unfortunately a bad topic for Croatia and is related to the possession of the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights in Croatia, he was here for a few days and after seeing the situation about what his job is and that is the state of human rights and media freedoms in the Republic said some things that I think all of us need to worry about, and I think that's exactly the Croatian Parliament where we have to talk about it. In fact, the Commissioner for Human Rights is the institution of the Council of Europe. It is not some person x who has come to Croatia in such a way, so something wants to tell us or has some grudges but it is an institution and we have been a member of the Council of Europe for 20 years, of course we have accepted the standards that the Council of Europe has brought through its history and we are trying to accept further. I must say, this Croatian Parliament has its own delegation. We have recently been to the Council of Europe, or to the Council of Europe, colleagues proportionally, meaning according to the representation of political parties in the Croatian Parliament. One of these myself was personal, and already two weeks ago it was absolutely visible and the towers were talking inside the congregation and wondering what was happening in Croatia and it did not surprise me absolutely that the Commissioner for Human Rights reminded Croatia. But I was definitely worried that in his statements after the visit, he found what we were also partying about, the Croatian People's Party and some other colleagues in this House openly spoke and warned. What is, of course, crucial is that it has been observed that standards are being broken in relation to minorities, standards are being broken in relation to the media, changes in the media, means cleanups, that there is a rematch of new authorities, and that's a big problem. The problem is that until recently, here we were, up to 5, 6, 7 months ago, sitting in that same Council of Europe, or that congregation, were proud and an example. Croatia has an excellent legislative framework related to human rights, minority rights, freedom, media. However, the new government has decided to behave very differently in this segment than those standards and to pull Croatia into the mud again, the place we have fought for years not to be. We pulled that story, entered the EU, the EU Member States were, we were proud of the EU member states that sought the most standards in protecting human rights and democracy. What concerns the most is that the institutions of this country, for example, the President of the Republic, react in the way they react or relativise this problem. Well, after the president was out of line by the press the other day, she said she was brave, so here she is, as a CNS we call her to be brave, to slap her hand on the table and to her colleagues, and these are her colleagues who are now in power, saying that there is enough of this kind of behavior and that it is enough to embarrass Croatia in front of the international public but above all that it is important that we live in democracy here. Democracy can't be a fig leaf, it can't be something we pretend to be about and unfortunately the situation is exactly like that, democracy is what we have to live, live from day to day and set more and more standards. When we are surprised, we are surprised by the days when the European Commission lowers 0.5% of our rating, but if we do not have this rating, we will not have a highest level of democratic standards, unfortunately we will not have a chance for economic and social prosperity within the EU. So I urge everyone in this assembly to stand up for it and ask the institutions of the state to behave in accordance with the standards we have long accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7032	Thank you. And the last one will be on behalf of the MOST, the distinguished representative of the Rose Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7033	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. I asked for a word in order to clearly and unequivocally show the public and all stakeholders of the Croatian economic scene how important it is to deal with the basic problem of Croatian agriculture, which is the extinction of an entire branch, which is the branch of livestock farming. Croatian agriculture is sinking into an ever-increasing crisis that is particularly evident in livestock farming, especially in the production of meat and milk as the highest form of creating added value in rural production. In the economic branch, which is a key part of the food system and for which there are just ideal conditions and long traditions in Croatia, we still choose to import, the imports run out of funds because the country's chronic external trade deficit can no longer be covered by the borrowing or further sale of the nation's family silver. We need to be aware that cattle farming is exactly the branch of an economy where almost everything depends on its own mind and its pawnage. The main feature of bovine animals is a multi-year cycle of production, which requires long-term sustainability and sustainability in management. What we do today, the full results only give us through the full 3-5 years. Croatia must therefore, in short and in accordance with its own needs, define the cultures of its village and its development strategy. Every profound change in system and way of thinking requires a lot of time as well as social consensus in the broadest sense. Croatia is, however, forced into the economy to initiate a very profound change in the situation where Croatian politicians and the tops of bureaucracy, the general public and, in some ways, the academic community do not show awareness of the depth of the crisis and even less about its causes. That is why the radical turn of those policies that have created and deepened the crisis is so far behind. The core of these erroneous policies is constantly recycled through the industrialization of the village with the logic of the processing industry. The most important task is to create a climate of dialogue instead of long-term confrontations. This is particularly relevant in the dairy sector where the negotiating power has completely disappeared between small producers and existing processors. I remind myself of the forgotten, and this is the task of the state and its institutions to provide frameworks for constructive negotiations by market partners. In the end, if it is forced to do so, it must also engage directly in the protection of the interest of domestic production in order to reduce the external trade deficit. The negotiated structure thus created must seek to achieve the highest security of purchases and price stability during a sensitive period of domestic production regeneration and significant credit burdens of a large part of the manufacturer, even though they significantly oscillate on the European market. The system of importing food into the country urgently needs to be made far more transparent than it is today. It is necessary to monitor the strict compliance with import rules with the clear and public declaration of the type, quality and origin of meat and milk from customs to consumers, and to make available to the transparent public the rapidly available official import statistics. The decision to ban the slaughter of certain species of cattle must immediately be applied and further extended with the prohibition of the slaughter of female calves of all breeds. It is necessary to urgently initiate the process of re-financing of expensive loans for farms and machinery, to reduce VAT to re-promaterials, to guarantee the price of milk below which the buyer must not go. I personally believe that agriculture must be the most important element of the Croatian economy. On the one hand, economic policy should ensure conditions in which agricultural production would be profitable, and on the other hand, infrastructure for the development of modern agriculture should be ensured. Agriculture based on livestock production is an economic sector that can help the fastest and cheapest to get Croatia out of the economic crisis, and upgrades with the processing industry and tourism because agriculture can then become the cornerstone of the sustainability of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u7034	Thank you very much. Now we could move on to the agenda. Now we could move on to the agenda. And our first point is as you know and as we have predicted - the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EC) No. 1060/2009. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 28. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance, the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9048	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the Credit Rating agencies Regulation was adopted under the measures that followed the financial crisis in order to restore market confidence and increase investor protection. The key developments covered by this Regulation that are directly applicable in all Member States are four. First, credit rating agencies have introduced registration requirements, work authorisation by the European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority, ESMA is a shortcut as well as rules on conflict of interest, transparency and publication obligations. Secondly, the regulation seeks to reduce excessively relying on financial institutions on the external rating agency for credit ratings. Third, it seeks to improve the quality of the EU Member States' allocations, and under four efforts to increase the direct responsibility of the Credit Rating Agency for its own actions in the award of a specific credit rating. This law or proposal for the purpose of enabling the implementation of the regulation in the Republic of Croatia has ordered that the competent authority for the implementation of the regulation which we are talking about in 1060 of 2009. Hanfa. The sectoral authorities are the Croatian National Bank and the HANFA, and the infringement provisions for the anti-registration regulation are also prescribed. Let me also say that at yesterday's session the government accepted this proposed nomo-technical amendment of the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9049	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I can't see. So, I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, will be spoken by distinguished representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9050	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I wouldn't add too much intro as the Minister actually said. It is a technical document defining the relevant authorities, infringements and sectoral competent authorities for the implementation of the regulation and there is nothing disputed and the SDP club will certainly support this part of the law. However, what I would say, which is very important to say about the role of all these credit agencies in creating in fact this financial crisis that has long been hit by the EU, or the whole world, and it has certainly affected the long-term recession that was in the Republic of Croatia, and it would refer to one part where these financial agencies themselves do not put enough emphasis on, and we believe that today it is one of the key challenges to get out of the crisis. You know yourself that since 2001, when there was a lot of money on the financial market, it's just been pumping that balloon and simply the agencies that were supposed to react and should have said that the economy was heating up, that a financial tsunami was being created that would have a long-term impact on all the economies simply their warnings just weren't there. Why weren't they here? Because they're open we can say they were, and we know who the financial agencies are, so there are three rating agencies (Standard&Poor's, Fitch and Moody's) and they own their banks. And the total of that one wheel that went from financial agencies together with banks where everything went well, where the bonuses went to each other and where one financial balloon was actually created there was no warning. And then you see the regulation that began in 2009 when there was actually a very strong impact on the economy, then actually the EU is actually making a regulation. Because you see when the regulation was adopted in 2009 when they say credit rating agencies must be registered, they must be granted work, of course they must, be careful even to state that they must not be overly financial institutions that they should not be overly based on credit rating agencies, their decisions. These certainly require a certain responsibility for all these crisis rating agencies that have arisen. And there's a situation for you that those investment ratings that were tripples and when those agencies themselves gave and said they were good securities and later it turned out that it was a simple trick and that one balloon was scattered. And then they actually had to intervene finance ministers around the world. And actually how did public debt actually arise? They were created in such a way that public finances, whether the United States, Ireland, Iceland, Germany, Great Britain, finance ministers or governments had to resuscitate in fact these tripples A ratings that these agencies themselves gave and then happen to you that some countries explode with their public debt. And then again those agencies that are doing to you? They say, and now you have a very high public debt now cut. And look what they're creating, they're actually creating a procyclical economy. They completely freaked out the government's economy and, in fact, based on their mistakes, because governments had to go in and solve these things, they actually created public debts. Finally, those who were ultimately the most likely to suffer and the users of that budget had to suffer again. So, in order not to be ignored, it's very important that this part of the agency has its status in society, however, they compromised it. And that's why today you have a situation where you have countries that don't have an investment rating, and they're less in debt than when they had that very investment rating. It will take a long, long time to actually regain trust in credit agencies to, because their trust in them has actually been lost by many, to restore their trust. And therefore, in fact, this regulation itself, or supervision, tightens the supervision of these rating agencies. But what's very important, what rating agencies don't say because it's constantly a focus on public debt, they don't talk about private debt. You know that it's spending itself, here I've already been saying, that actually the whole of that GDP is actually generated by consumption. Whether it is household consumption, business consumption or state consumption. You know most of the consumption actually generates households. And households cannot continue to generate and draw GDP unless they have a very high share of private debt. And that's the problem because when in Croatia it's not just about public debt, which is now at 86%, 87%, when we talk about private debt where actually all these financial agencies are not talking about private debt, it's that citizens are in charge of around 40% of GDP in Croatia, and the corporate sector is between 80% and 90%. And when you actually see the total share of that debt, you see that the private debt is greater than the public debt and that it is private and that private investors on the other hand were regardless of what they were talking about citizens or whether they were talking about corporations that they were actually the biggest generators of creating GDP. And it is, in fact, the European Commission and the documents that have actually made certain recommendations of the Republic of Croatia, not only of the Republic of Croatia but of others, so we must start to restructure the private debt. And I am sorry that there is no greater emphasis in this reform programme on private debt restructuring precisely because the commission also said that private debt is one of the bigger problems in how to generate economic growth. Because if we have over-indebted citizens, we know what the very high amounts of blockades of Croatian citizens are, if we have companies in charge, you simply don't have who can generate further economic growth. And that's why the overall excessive sensitivity actually of credit agencies exclusively on public debt, and I'm telling you that it started in most countries that actually they were the main generators of these bad ones' estimates shows that in their analysis of credit ratings there were actually a lot of difficulties. And that is why I would like to say that, certainly, the Government, because resolving private debt, restructuring of private citizens and restructuring of the private debt of the corporate sector, I certainly believe that if they gave greater emphasis on restructuring these debts, the economy would recover more quickly, and in this context, it would actually reduce public debt. Because public debt, you're actually reducing economic growth, and that's how you encourage the economy. Because if you happen to have just a drop in economic activity, and you know that we've had a decline in economic activity somewhere up to 15%, that you don't actually have any further responsibility, your share in public debt is increasing by 15%. So you're absolutely not, and you just can't get out of this whole process unless you reactivate that you and the citizens are actually dispersing, that the companies are dispersing and that actually that one cycle doesn't start. Because you saw for yourself last year when a certain economic growth of 1.6% was achieved, you saw that both the deficit was completely second and different, that it was stabilised public debt and simply without economic growth by directing itself, I agree that there should be savings on the spending side but rating agencies exclusively and just looking at the expenditure side of the budget. And in this context, their models that showed themselves, and we know how they showed the Greeks, that they said sell out your islands, sell out the woods, sell out the water, privatize everything. That it was one model that finally proved he didn't give the results. The Greeks didn't come out of the crisis, they're in an even bigger recession, they're in even bigger trouble. They privatized that part of the property that actually just made a certain transfer. The question needs to be asked that this property is not only a problem of privatising assets where I, in part, support the Government in this work that one part of the assets should be privatised when you are looking for strategic partners, not only for the transfer or reduction of a certain part of the debt, but also for that property to be used and to create this part of aggregate demand, means raising economic growth. So all of these models that have been based especially on rating agencies in recent years we see that they haven't been quality, they've fallen into the water and that their advice if we just blindly implement their advice that economies will be created even deeper and deeper recessions. And you know what happens to you then? They give you such certain advice, you do such an experiment on your people, they say after a year, so we made a mistake, some of our analysts have made some mistakes in our analysis that happened both with the EBD and with them and then they say let's start over. That is why I certainly support that the government must have a position on its reforms. If there is a need to privatise or seek out strategic partners to stimulate economic growth, it is certainly only about the sale of assets because the agency said so, and now it will give us back some kind of rating not, because it will not actually give us back the ratings just because of these things. And I'll tell you what today and, for example, Those agencies mean it. Here, for example. Slovenia, I've been looking at the data recently, so even Slovenians aren't so much better financially when they're standing, when you're looking at the ratio of public debt or deficits. We're somewhere at 86%, the Slovenes are about 84.85%. We had 3.2, Slovenians have about 2.5. So they have a rating A, we have a rating BB+. So it doesn't make any sense if we're just going to compare when only some figures are compared by defining this public debt and economic growth. And because of this, if the government is seeking to privatise those companies that will generate growth, which will create new investments, new employment where the state should no longer support with its guarantees, especially where you have a market economy and we know that we have in hotels and many others, I believe that the state should not be the owner, but can come from investors who will invest. In that work, we will certainly support efforts because it is the only economic cost and there should be no problem. However, if you have a fast sale of assets, fast sale of assets, on the other hand, and these investors are asking for the price to be as low as possible, however, it is not a problem if they will start certain production, but the problem is if they do not continue to manage the property. And that's why this part of real estate tax should certainly match all those who will want to speculate with that property and if they get it from the state, because we're only talking about foreign state property that the state has, we know that the local community also has a very large share of assets that aren't in office. And that's why the introduction of that part of real estate tax that you're talking about, if you should actually guess those who don't use that property will certainly encourage investors not to go into speculation and wait just for a certain difference in price that will actually resell that particular property because the state as it should have sold it on the lower level, she sold it because they were some kind of lower prices, because you don't actually have real estate markets today, is not actually a unfortunately developed real estate market, and here we need to think about how to resuscitate the real estate market? Is unfortunately too much investment and private sector in the real estate market is certainly one of the key reasons to start the economy. For this reason, certainly what is in this part of the reform, and certainly further related to this part of the rating agency, give measures on how to get the real estate market back because we think it is important to return the real estate market and certainly measures to reduce private debt. And I think that these are the two measures that would certainly give the incentive to create greater economic growth and in that part will actually reduce public debt, the deficit will decrease and then these restrictive neoliberal measures that we have to sell our islands, forests, roads, water etc. which all the time advocate rating agencies actually fall into the water. And let's not just fall into a trap here, we have to have our own way, our path is the hard way, but we have to have the right path and not every time be under the impression of certain rating agencies. I have spoken to them many times, these are young boys who visit both Croatia and many other countries, come, make certain records and leave. However, we must have a position here to lead economic policy and in this context you will have from us personally and from me support if you have a clear attitude means that you want to create investments, you want jobs, in this way you will stabilise public debt and not some certain rapid resale of property that is actually mainly when you see in their... rating agencies they recommend it to you. Once again, so the government will support this amendment to the law and thank you very much, the SDP club, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9051	Okay. Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is one of the most respected representatives of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9052	Dear Mr. Lalovec, I have listened carefully to your exhibits that are very high-quality and I like that you have assessed the action of rating agencies in the world today as a means of first-rate geo-economic, geopolitical influence. So you clearly said that by changing the ratings, they could lift up and throw up in the mud and really take care of it. On this basis, I would ask you a question that I think we can start too, why the euro area or the EU doesn't have its rating agency because the fact that standards... they control around 93% of the world's credit rating market and all three are the United States. So it's a mildly unusual phenomenon. So please tell me your opinion on whether we should stand behind it, run it, can we influence it, is that weird to you? Secondly, I like that you have found that the amount of private debts in Croatia is greater than public debt. It is a fact in other countries and the world floats on debt both publicly and even more private. In this context, therefore, it is indeed necessary to take care of the structure of one type and other types of debt and should not be allowed to be blackmailed through an international credit agency. You're actually as far as I understand the message that we don't need to, that we have to strictly control foreign borrowing because it's about credit rating agencies. So if I can add to that, you're actually in favour of a larger share of domestic substance and kuna in lending. And what do you think about why the notion of credit rating is used in Croatia for domestic transactions? Is that in your opinion missed or is it because of the extra profit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9053	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Boris Lalovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9054	Thank you very much. Thanks for asking. So this is exactly what I'd like to start from the last one, so when banks say they've included an external credit rating, so when they define interest rates, they say they're starting with Libor plus a margin, and that's what the country's rating actually counts on. Absolutely wrong. You know why? Because 90% of the sources are actually from Croatian savings that should not be counted on by credit ratings. And when we talk to the governor, he says yes, you're right. So they're actually trying to make a certain fog out there that's actually because the state is expensive because they're adding a certain risk premium. Absolutely wrong. Because you have no risk premium, especially from the risk of the state if you have the savings of Croatian citizens. And we know that about 250 billion kuna is saving Croatian citizens. And it's actually going to be interest rates in Croatia, we do, so that would be another thing if we were actually getting that money from abroad so that that part of the money would be accounted for by the risk premium. However, it is absolutely inadmissible and for this reason, if you start in that part, you should also define in that part the way the margin is formed and the way interest rates are formed because you know that certain banks were punishment, that they were setting up the basic interest rate of Libor. Carefully, they've been convicted of setting up Libor's convictions. And you can imagine what they're further set up when they're a fundamental interest rate where billions and billions of dollars have to be turned around to set something up. It's just impossible how... Set up Libor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you can think about what they're doing with these other things. So when you talk about the European Rating Agency, absolutely, since the European economy makes up almost a third of the world economy together with the Chinese economy, the question of the ratio of what you said and certain geopoliticals of Europe and China to America, but you have three rating agencies that actually set up the entire system. And I think that this part of the regulation, although there are 23 agencies in the EU that have not yet implemented it, but now there are certain steps to actually take and also to take Latin America, etc., is actually an entire geopolitical issue. So we certainly shouldn't blindly serve and domestic loans absolutely. A very important role of the CNB in pro-recession conditions. 'Cause why do you need backup, what do you need backup for when there's a crisis? Well, people spend my reserves when there's a crisis, gathering when it's good. I mean, these are basic civilization shifts. So they didn't, says the CNB kept the reserves all the time and when the crisis was. That's why we need to release the reserves then, to create an economy, and later when it's good to collect things. So we certainly expect a turn in the CNB, especially in the formation of the Kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9055	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9056	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm glad my colleague Lalovac is this good at talking to you, which is actually his portfolio. I agree with what my colleague Lovrinović said and he actually took away my replica about this issue about the European Commission, but I can relate. The European Commission seems under-organised on this subject, and that is definitely why this whole story goes through these three agencies and the United States and the CNB just continues this story from the European Commission. So he's just doing that job in that sense. Nobel Prize Minister Paul Krugman recently said that credit agencies are clowns because they didn't want to or didn't want to predict that debt crisis that happened in the United States. I hope that you agree with me when I say that Croatia is actually not sovereign enough in this matter but of course it can't be, because the European Commission doesn't have a defined strategy on this, either, because it doesn't have its own credit agency. And now the question is whether these reforms that are going to go, which are being done, are going to go in terms of increasing economic growth, what you said or are doing again, some cuts on the burden of citizens so that the credit rating of these same agencies will be better because they did not know exactly in March a few months ago. I don't think that's the way, I don't think that these agencies should be affected at all by this kind of banking logic and credit rating agency, to hold certain states in a way in debt slavery. I think we should have monetary policy, financial and economic policy that's more sovereign. And even if the European Commission has no reason why the initiative should not come from Croatia and we are a member of the EU. Here's what I hope you're okay with, so I'd like to hear a comment on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9057	Thank you. The honourable representative Boris Lalovac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9058	Thank you very much and thank you for asking. Yes, this is certainly a question that is above unfortunately both the domain and our legislation because we are too small a country. However, what should certainly be done both in the talks in this House and in the communication on the National Reform Programme set exactly what you said that we are a sovereign country, that we have the right to actually bring to the EU those programmes that we think are good for Croatian citizens. And not that, look, unfortunately, and I took part in these meetings of the Council of Ministers of Finance, look and there a number of finance ministers from other countries are also rebelling because you can't always work when you watch this early retirement. The same minister from Luxembourg says look, you can't put us with other countries. All these countries are fighting for their citizens and they are trying even though it is trying to impose this part on the commission not only blindly, so you should listen in fact to the Croatian people because ultimately all of these measures if they are wrong will actually be paid by the Croatian people and all of these analysts will tell you, and listen we are just analysts, we are just doing certain forecasts. So I don't want to, I'd like the government to have its position, to defend it firmly if it has to, and there will be an opposition together, but to defend it firmly to create what we've said all along, and not only to be determined, there should be savings but linearly certain cuts that some officials now from Brussels or some other offices are saying all the time, I think sometimes these experiments aren't good for national economies, but therefore you have to have a third pillar, you have to have the CNB pro active in creating the kuna, in creating a single environment, that it's not that part of the pro-resion and you see when certain conversions are now made. Look, the banks in the first quarter of this year have 40% more profit than the total last year only in the first quarter and all the time they have said they will be destroyed, the investors from Croatia will flee, will affect the course, the apocalypse will take place, in the first quarter because they have more profit than the ones they created positively, so the positive effects are and therefore the government should continue to fight for the citizens, for the resolution of private debt not only the citizens but also the corporations. I think that this is missing from the National Reform Programme, and if you can fill in some legal solutions later, we will certainly encourage you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9059	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9060	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's a technical law ahead of us and the HDZ Club will support this bill, but like my predecessor, I want to, and I think it's time for us to talk a little bit about credit rating agencies in this House. I've talked about it both before and over the past years, about their behavior, about how much their share is in the economic crisis, and I'm asking myself one question to you and me, colleagues and colleagues, whether all of us states, citizens, businesses, annually because of the rating of these credit rating agencies, we pay two, three billion interest more than we should pay. That's the key question. Why? Because as far as Croatia is concerned for years, so you are in the phase of EU accession negotiations, we don't know how it will end, so this risk and that risk have held us such a credit rating. Then Croatia entered the EU and the logical thing if someone has pointed out for years that it is your problem then it is a logical thing if you have completed a certain process that has been supported by a series of reforms that you have had to implement not only the harmonisation of legislation like this but also its implementation. So, unfortunately, Croatia has remained with the same credit rating and since we are in the recession phase, we have virtually reduced credit ratings twice since we joined the EU. And when you look at the reasons why the European Community adopted this regulation, then we cannot ask ourselves whether these credit rating agencies are in their evaluations and evaluations penalizing us to say so annually to the state and citizens and Croatian companies with 2.3 billion kuna. Look, who was the first to fail when the world crisis started? A financial institution that had the highest possible credit rating failed. There have been transactions, sales, this one has bought, one and who in that whole story has come out uncircumcised, who keeps teaching the whole story how to behave, under which conditions one can borrow, credit rating agencies. I will tell you a case from the recent Croatian past, so when the government decides to issue securities, when it goes to the Roth show to publish it in time with all data etc., in 2009, it happened to us that in the stage of the Roth show, FITCH touched our credit rating, which is unusual, not professionally, embarrassing. At the same time in talks with investors in America, not one investor told us that we do not understand why Croatia has such a low credit rating, that according to all the indicators they have, Croatia must have a higher credit rating. And when I talk about this risk coefficient that's in Croatia at this point of 2.75 or 3.25 so it's moving in these emissions, it's the starting point for calculating interest rates. At the same time, when you compare yourself with some other countries that are far worse for me than Croatia, that their risk coefficient is just because, before us, one 9 years ago, they entered the EU by 2% points lower and higher, so their entrepreneurs at the very beginning have as much lower interest rates as it is often, very often and the price difference they achieve on the world market. And that's why I, as Parliament, am glad that my colleague Lalovec spoke this way. There is a topic where there are no simple political divisions, where the profession and certain indicators and my family are ahead of it, and I think that this item of the agenda was supposed to be practically a day-long debate today, and you see only three clubs discussing it and that some point that we can ideologically divide would be a debate all day because then everyone can discuss it and we can all comment on it. So in our budget, the cost of interest is about $11.5.12 billion. You believe me that rating agencies are worth at least two, two and a half billion kunas because if they don't blackmail Croatia, they could be cheaper in debt and they could pay less interest on the same stories about citizens' loans, the same stories are with your business loans. So when you look at only 4 reasons why a regulation or news adopted by the regulation is adopted, it says it aims to reduce excessively relying on financial institutions on the external rating agency for credit ratings and aims to improve the quality of the allocations to EU Member States. So that was 2009, then Croatia was not an EU member. Croatia became an EU member, did rating agencies start acting like this? They don't behave like that. The truth is, today Croatia has to say surplus capital. Banks have very high liquidity, all financial institutions have money. Unfortunately, however, those who should take these loans do not have the conditions to receive these loans. However, there was a time when, unfortunately, Croatia did not have such liquidity, when Croatia was very dependent on borrowing outside. Well, I remember the first issue of bonds on the domestic market. Then, of course, those foreign capital defenders competed in the newspaper who would more accuse the government of taking available funds on the domestic market that entrepreneurs should have taken. So does anyone really think that banks would give 4 billion credit to the state at an interest rate of 5 and a half, 6% and at that time entrepreneurs had an interest rate of 8 and more? I wouldn't have given you 4 billion to entrepreneurs if it were a demand for entrepreneurs. But it was important to panic so that it could be charged or the ministry's relationship, CNB. When a mandatory reserve was raised from 13% to 15%, I think it was somewhere in 2005, then the finance minister dared to object that it was meant to be in agreement between the CNB and the government for the simple reason that it had itself conditioned the price of capital. Then came the salva attack on the finance minister, because how dare he tell the governor what he was supposed to do. So, so much for some relationships, some times. And today, the same ones who are doing so today are writing the opposite of those central banks, exactly the same. Nothing's changed that much. But it is definitely that when we talk about rating agencies, when we talk about this law next, then we need to talk about some of the things that affect this country, many of which are lurking. And those who wrote like this yesterday, tomorrow they'll write like that, the day after tomorrow they'll write again as they pass. However, in the end, we pay this whole story somewhere 2, 2 and a half billion kuna more than we really should, than the real assessment of the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. So, the Republic of Croatia is relatively highly in charge, but given the structure and debt and the structure of the assets and all together, the Republic of Croatia is not such a risky country. And I argue responsibly that Croatia should at least have a higher credit rating for three degrees at the moment than it has. But let us not forget that all these international financial institutions are closely connected to themselves with invisible threads and they dictate to us no matter which government, which political option was in power, led this country always suggested everything. Sell everything, sell everything, sell everything. And look from the stand by the arrangement in 2000 until the end of the stand by the arrangement and then everyone suggests the exact same thing. And what happens? Sell. Well, it's not a sales problem if that company survives, if they stay employed. Because the logical thing is, if someone buys something, then the logical thing is that they're going to invest in it, they're going to heal that company, and they're going to open up new jobs. It's some kind of normal economic and economic process. But unfortunately, it does not happen in Croatia. But what is it? If you sell out everything then you've got a lot of addiction, and our public, the height of this public debt is addiction to something. Because it's enough that someone at a given time for one reason or another, and I'm that phase as a minister passed in 2009 and 2010, not me, but many colleagues across European countries when it was practically impossible to issue bonds. It's enough for you that you can't reprogram your debt at a given time and that you're practically thrown on your knees. And here we can fight politically as much as we want. And this is the topic on which we all need to speak equally today. We all need to talk about this subject as much today, regardless of the technical provision of the law for the simple reason, because this credit rating agency pays everyone, we all pay them. All those who have credit, all who have cards and minus credit cards, all the companies all this minus the state budget, we all pay a few percentage points more than we should because of the rating of that famous credit agency gentleman. And regardless of Croatia is a small country, perhaps at some point we should have thought that we were going with some countries in the neighborhood and with our own rating agency for the simple reason to give an assessment and assessment of something from another angle. However, we were in the phase we were in. But I say, the most drastic example is to look at the rating and evaluations of rating agencies before Croatia enters the EU. Everywhere you will be mentioned the risk of the process of European negotiations and when they will end. We've finished our negotiations. The date of Croatia's entry into the EU has been defined. What happened? That's what I was talking about in this same pay phone in 2012. Let us not say that our primary goal is to preserve the credit rating because at that time Croatia had to get an increased credit rating. Because if someone tells you you can't get it because you didn't do it and you didn't do it, you did it and you made a prerequisite for him to reward you with it. Unfortunately, that didn't happen to us. And what's the matter? The first thing a few months after Croatia's entry into the EU has dropped our credit rating. And unfortunately, the interest rate level for borrowing, and you have a need for annual borrowing of 15.16 billion, 17 billion kuna, because you have to finance the deficit. At the same time, you have needs if public companies want to do something to put them in charge, and they pay it more. Simple mathematics, a simple interest account, and you'll see how much we pay at the annual level more. And perhaps now in this package of the EU, perhaps with these macroeconomic indicators that will remain in the plus, it is likely that these high-ranking gentlemen from the rating agency will remember that Croatia should be increased credit ratings. No one asked them how it could have happened to those great experts that those they held to are the best, that they were the best, that they were the first when the financial crisis began to fall to their knees. No one asked them. Did anything happen to the power of these three credit rating agencies? Well, at least she showed up on the fourth and fifth and gave the fourth and fifth agencies a proper opinion. No, there's three of them left. And they're telling their story again until some next crisis where their pets will fall first. But eventually someone will pay for it, and they will pay for it as small as Croatia. And that's why all of us who felt it, I'm glad to say that this is how Lalovac used to say it, these things on his back we need to talk publicly about some things because we're just all paying for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9061	Thank you. The next debate will be on behalf of the HNS club of liberal Democrats and will speak to the distinguished representative Bozica Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9062	Dear President of the Parliament, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must tell you that it is extremely difficult to speak after two former finance ministers who really presented this topic have entered the core because they have met with this, they know all the problems. However, when we listen as citizens about credit agencies, it often seems abstract and we think no matter what it means to us. In fact, the life of every citizen of this Croatia depends precisely on this credit rating given to Croatia. There have already been words that he is not real and that he is shrinking and that we pay far more interest and government and our entrepreneurs and citizens and that we do not pay these interest we could afford far more and have a far higher standard. Indeed, here we are today facing a legislative proposal of a more technical nature where we need to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with EU legislation. However, credit rating agencies were most talked about at the time of the financial crisis when they made their assessments, their assessments of non-accurate devices, they were not realistic, they did not warn us of some things and the consequences felt really long. Therefore, the 2009 Regulation is of the opinion of the European The EU has established certain rules that should indeed be followed by a minimum that should satisfy those credit rating agencies. Therefore, registration and authorisation requirements were introduced by the European Supervisory Authority, aimed to reduce excessively relying on the financial institutions on external ratings of agencies, to increase the responsibility of agencies. And what we said is that it is trying to increase the quality of EU Member States. As far as that went, there's already been a speech here. Many credit institutions, investment companies, insurance companies, then pension funds are still being used. Of course, they can be used because they use the ratings these agencies bring. Unfortunately, of the 23 agencies, 3 are the leading ones whose estimates and all rely on. As they are not prone to us in these evaluations, we see and feel. Of course, agencies must respect certain results, certain financial reports, but sometimes they respect all of them, for some time in part, and sometimes I feel that even on very unverified and unconfirmed information, these credit ratings are brought in, that I do not say that on personal estimates and not on real ones. I won't be much longer because I really fully agree with colleagues who spoke before me, who I say once again have far more experience, knowledge but that's what needs to be discussed here because it affects our citizens' lives whether they will be better, whether entrepreneurs will be in debt at smaller interest rates, not where someone was in '41, where he was in the '90s. I think it's important, too, but this is far more important for life. And there's still mention of the importance of the CNB. I personally believe that this is of great importance in this and that some things should be seen, some changes made in the work, in the way of thinking about the CNB. On the implementation of the credit rating agencies Regulation, on the competent authority for the implementation of the HANFA, and on the sectoral competent authorities of the HANFA, the CNB is normally fine, it is harmonised. And for the sake of importance, I think this is a good thing to bring it together. HNS representatives' club of liberal Democrats will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9063	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And we'd move on to the next point. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation No. 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 28. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee, and it became an integral part of the final draft law. Therefore, I am voting on the final draft law implementing Regulation No. 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies. Please vote. Who's in? What's the score? 102 votes in favour, none against nor abstention. I find that the Law implementing the EC Regulation implementing the EC Regulation has been unanimously adopted. 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9066	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The adoption of a new Law implementing EU rules in the field of payment services is proposed for the purpose of the implementation of the 2015 Regulation. The European Parliament and the Council of 29 April 2015 on interbank fees for payment transactions based on cards. The objectives of the Interbank Compensation Regulation are to reduce interbank fees, resulting in a reduction in fees for traders that can have an indirect impact on consumers by reducing prices for goods and services. Incentive of competition, i.e. the possibility of entering other smaller card payment schemes on the market, the possibility of cross-border provision of payment services, acceptance, card-based transactions and greater transparency. The contract between the bank and the trader shall provide each other with information on the amount of fees charged to the trader, interbank fees and compensation schemes for each category and brand of payment card. In addition, as a payment service provider, the bank must provide the trader with information on the amount of all fees to be charged for the execution of the individual payment transaction on the basis of the card. The following legislation has been drawn up, i.e. a proposal for a law implementing EU rules in the field of payment transport, which has been designated by the competent authorities authorised to ensure the implementation of the Interbank Compensation Regulation, the conduct of the competent authorities, the extrajudicial approach, the appeal procedure and the settlement procedure and the infringement provision in the event of non-execution or failure to comply with the obligations laid down by the interbank compensation regulation. Let me finally just say that the Government also accepted at yesterday's session the amendment of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee to Article 17 of the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9067	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We only have one registered, and that's on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9068	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with an associate, let's say that before the point before this, there'd be something to say and a little bit more than we've heard, and this technical one will be a little shorter than usual. This bill solves the poor long-term problem for 20 years of high and different fees and too high fees for using payment transactions when using cards, debit cards or credit cards. At times, EU regulations have also come in handy. I'm not sure if we could solve the problem of these rudely high fees for payment transactions and different fees and for cash was never nearly a discount compared to paying with a credit card. And we probably wouldn't have solved this problem today if the EU regulation hadn't come. For years, we would have been the most expensive EU member state to pay for telecommunications services and credit and debit card transactions if the EU regulations had not come. They now limit that on debit cards, the highest fee can be 0.2% of the transaction value, and by credit cards 0.3% of the transaction value. I just wish that in the explanation of the bill's proposal, it would have cost what a lot of compensation for these transactions. You'd see a terrible, terrible difference of 20 times. As regards the very proposal for a law, the HDZ Club supports this bill by emergency procedure and only one suggestion by Mr. Minister may still be if one technical correction can be made when it is simple to further simplify that it does not have to be complicated. For example, in Article 6(4). "After receiving the complaint, the Croatian National Bank will call on the payment service provider which the complaint refers to that within the deadline set by the National Bank, not for more than 10 days." Why not simplify that within 10 days of the National Bank, why should the National Bank, in particular, give a deadline to both the National Bank and the legal limit to 10 days? No need, no need to stand, just to be thrown out, take the amendment to be thrown out within the deadline set by the Croatian National Bank. When the law sets a 10-day maximum, what will it set for 2 days, from 4 days or 5 days and is legally the longest? So that it is simplified and unnecessarily complicated and that it does not allow for other deadlines when it has the law but that it is set for a 10-day period. In Article 7, this is just a remark that follows when the law is passed, a common law appears to prescribe sublaws and then these sublaws are not adopted. I propose that a deadline should always be prescribed in the legal act, within which a sublegal act must be adopted. Here in Article 7 if the Croatian Chamber of Commerce commits itself to bring something, to commit itself within what time period it will be passed, and not to have a law and we do not have a sublegal act and may not bring it in so that peace processes and resolutions cannot go. And it is a rare law in which all sublegal acts and sublegal acts have been passed, and I would like one day to review how many sublegal acts have not been passed and when laws have been passed and what has not been implemented by all those laws and was the obligation of law? And many things in Croatia are just because of sublegal acts that have not been passed. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. And just a brief note, it is not only credit agencies who blame Croatia for paying 11.5 billion interest. The truth that they have often acted as a racquetarian society but also very often were guaranteed to some companies that were in debt at 14% interest and without and with no responsibility were given guarantees which were later charged in large part and these unwarranted high interest rates today Croatia is paying for the debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9069	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9070	Dear counterpart Marić, you said at one point why in Croatia what is good, you said that this law is good, why only when someone from the European Commission, some institution, only then Croatian politics, those who make the decisions then react to me? So can you say whose responsibility is precisely because of this which has not now been brought? As a second question, you said it wasn't the credit agencies' fault for 11 billion kuna interest, who's to blame? Are you sitting in the Croatian Parliament, have you ever been run by our state? So I'm interested because I know that you're going to say it openly, that in a long time you've talked about problems that we now have debts that we're going to have to pay back to us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9071	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9072	Mr. Bully, I didn't say credit agencies weren't responsible, they were, but they weren't the only cause of high interest. How much of the companies owed themselves was unnecessary because they were ineffectively managed by those incompetent to manage state-owned companies. And how much not only was unnecessarily indemnified but it was incurring loans that could have been concluded at that time at a rate of 30, 40% lower interest rate. I don't know any guarantees issued by the government of the Republic of Croatia that they're not charged. And the guarantees were issued to the institutions on a proposal and never changed the borrowing proposal. It has always been accepted that proposal proposed by the management of the company that was in charge. So here, in one case, by playing the case, I know, I've got the information, one Swiss bank is in debt at a total cost of 14% at a time when it could be owed by 6%. There are countless companies like that. And there was no responsibility in controlling such borrowing and too high interest. When we borrowed from commercial banks, a lower interest rate could be agreed. When the funds were released from the CNB's mandatory reserve of 17 billion kuna, which was intended for the economy and to be charged with 2% of the state's interest, with 6% interest on those funds, could be significantly less. We have, we've had ways to prevent that, today, we're not paying an interest rate of 11.5 billion but a few billion less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9073	Thank you. Thank you, the next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9074	Here I am glad that my colleague Maric welcomed the adoption of this law that we see and that it only adds to the regulation. My colleague Bulj said well, it's always said in the third person, in debt, in debt, in debt, etc., it's not spoken in the first person. When we listen here to the previous two finance ministers and talk about problems, then we can see there's plenty of room for improvement. I wish sometimes it was said in the first person, it wasn't in debt, it wasn't in debt. Whoever was sitting in the executive office, he was in charge, and it could still be better, there's a way to be better, and it's not too late, so let's finally get it right. There's always something in face three. We are always in telecommunications and in this case with banks always paying some services more expensive than some other countries that are the same members of the EU. And I don't see any reason why at least that segment wouldn't be even. That's why in this sense I welcome the adoption of this law even if it only adds to the regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9075	Thank you for answering the honourable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9076	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what I was warning you about. Well, we could have passed a law like this a long time ago, without a regulation. And we wouldn't pay a fee of 3.4 or 5% for payment transactions on bank cards and foreign exchange cards. We could've passed the Telecommunications Cost Reduction Act, we shouldn't have waited for the regulation, but we charged ourselves. Imagine, here's the first thing I'm saying is that we've unnecessarily increased electricity prices 30% in one day. But whenever you analyze and so expensive electrical energy and everything we do in a dishwasher home, for laundry, TVs, lighting, iron, everything works and our electricity bill is smaller than the phone that you make a few conversations with. We pay the most expensive phone in the EU. Why? Because it suits some people, we could have done it. And that's why it's good that the regulation came like this because we have to act like all the other members when we're not able to sort ourselves out, then we have someone to sort us out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9077	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the HNS club, the Liberal Democrats will speak to the distinguished representative of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9078	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on the implementation of the European Union in the area of payment transport. It is about the Law on between payment fees for payment transactions through cards. I think it was really time to settle this by law, but it wasn't just us in the EU that had an unsettled space like this. In fact, there are far more members of the EU who did not have the legal arrangements of this area and were partly only owned by Denmark, Poland, Hungary and the UK but not entirely. However, there may not have been such a big problem, although competition has often been excluded, because banks and card institutions have agreed on these conditions, but the fees were below 1%, while those fees were far more than 1%, and individual fees were up to 1.45%, however, they amounted to compensation for the trader up to 4% and the trader had to pay it or transfer it to the price and who was paying it again, the consumer. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This regulation limits between bank charges for national and cross-border payment transactions to 0.2% of the value of the debit card transaction and 0.3% for credit cards with each Member State being able to prescribe lower fees than that. Maybe I should just get a little closer to this problem. Most of the time, it's about four participants in this business. It is a bank card issuer, card user, trader and bank receiver and therefore all these are accumulated and compensations because the first bank that is the card publisher is charged with the account of the user increased for fees. The Bank shall, at the same time on behalf of the issuer and for the account of the user, pay the purchased goods or services by paying the receiving bank a reduced price for the bank in the event of a bank charge. This actually means that the bank receiver with which the trader has a contract has a salary amongst the bank's issuer's fees and then the bank accepts and then also has to pay that trader's postage device, so that these fees were unwarrantedly high. It is right to adopt this Regulation, it is appropriate to apply it to all members. I sincerely hope that even now there will be more competition among card houses which will ultimately bring us all to pay a lower price of products that traders must transfer to someone who is to consumers. This is also an important area because much of the traffic is done via cards. In Europe, it is about 40%, we are slightly lower, but with us the dynamics of growth are far higher, so we will soon be in that percentage of 40%, although there are other payments that we will probably use instead of cards but now the situation is so and it is good that this regulation has been adopted which among other things is what the minister has been saying and in which way will be supervised by the competent authority for negotiations, complaints, the procedure for the settlement and the violation of provisions. By reading completely this law, we consider it a good one and that is why the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9079	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Before we move on to the next point, I can't take away a single impression and share it with you. It's interesting that now we have two points that weigh several billion, which are paid by our citizens, paid, paid and paid. Then we spent about an hour. At another point last week, we spent two days on 600 thousand kuna, just that. It seems to me that we need to take a little care of some priorities in this home as well. Well. There he is. Now we'd move on to the next point in line. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the European Union Regulation in the field of payment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 33. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please vote. What's the score? I find that most of the votes we have decided to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendments. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9081	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the third session of the Croatian Parliament held on 5 May 2016 discussed the Proposal for a Law implementing the European Union Regulation in the area of payment turnover with the final draft law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 April 2016. As it was also discussed, the Government proposed at its meeting on 12 May 2016 that the amendment should be subject to the technical arrangements of Article 6(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposal for a law implementing the Regulation of the European Union in the area of payment turnover with the final proposal for a law and the following amendment was submitted. In Article 6(4), in that Article, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: ‘which is determined by the Croatian National Bank a’ is deleted. The proposed amendment simplifies the statement given that the time limit for the delivery of the evidence and evidence by the payment service provider on the complaint cannot be extended for more than 10 days. It is not necessary to further point out that, at the invitation of the Croatian National Bank, which determines the deadline for the payment service provider, it provides evidence and evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9082	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. Apparently not. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Please vote on who's in favour of the amendment to the government? I'm asking for a result. 75 votes for, not one against, not one abstention. Therefore, I find there is no quorum. There's no quorum at this point. Excuse me, there's, obviously, just a little bit, I'm begging you first in line. Secondly, please check there was obviously a problem in the button. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9083	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I think we should lock that door when the gentlemen come out, I'm asking you nicely to re-establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9084	No, we have to check the quorum because obviously there was a problem in the button that didn't work, which unfortunately some have tried to politically abuse but let's check the quorum anyway. Please check the quorum. What's the score? 74 and plus 2 is 76. As far as I can count the quorum. Therefore, we will repeat this vote. So, I ask you to vote again on this amendment. So, please, who's in favor of the government amendment? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please let us vote on the amendment to the government. Who's in? Please score. 72 for, and 75 is total. So we have... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, looks like there's a problem with some buttons. Come on, please. Let's go check again if people come forward and say they press buttons and it doesn't appear that's obviously some kind of technical problem. Let's do it again. So, please let's do it again. Now we have 73 is for and 3 is abstention. The amendment has therefore passed. I therefore find that most of the votes have been accepted by the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law implementing the EU Regulation in the field of payment transport. Please vote. Who's in? Is everyone doing buttons? I'm asking you nicely. Or shots or whatever you want, a button. Please score. Now we don't have a quorum, or we have 75 present, 1 abstention, 74 for. Therefore, we are not able to vote this bill at this time. We're going to the next law. Before that, I'm asking you to check the quorum one more time. Please let's go check the quorum. How many of us are there? Please score. Did everyone push the button? So we don't unfortunately have the quorum. Therefore, we cannot continue to vote further. And now we're going to continue with the job where we stopped to vote, but first we're going to determine the quorum. So I'm asking you all to get involved to see if we have a quorum. So we have 84 in the hall, so, I don't see much, I see more, but the light shows 84, so we have a quorum, and we can continue with the vote. As you probably remember, we stopped voting after we adopted the amendment to the law one and now we have to adopt that law or decide on that law. So now it is our turn to make a final proposal for a law implementing the European Union regulation in the area of payment transport. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 33. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. I remind you that we accepted the amendment of the Government on the occasion of the May 13th vote and it became an integral part of the final proposal for the Law. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the final law. Therefore, I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the European Union in the area of payment transport. Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. The quorum has increased dramatically. We have a sudden, 118 for, not one abstention, not one against. I therefore find that the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union in the field of payment transport has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9087	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. Article 225 of the Treaty on the The Law on Armed Forces Service of the Republic of Croatia provides that an active soldier, a sailor admitted to the service indefinitely and an employee of an officer with medium professional training remain in the active military service until 20 years of service and will be separated from the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia according to the annual plan for the separation of staff by 31 December 2016 at the latest. Accordingly, by 31.12.2016, all officers with medium professional training and active Navy soldiers admitted to active military service for an indefinite period of time who have completed their 20 years of insurance training should be appointed by law. The analysis found that by the prescribed deadline all of these persons would not meet the other prescribed retirement conditions, which would lead to the fact that a part of them would have to be singled out without the right to retire. The application of Article 225 of the Law until 31 December 2016 should single out 1150 soldiers admitted to the military service for an indefinite period of time. By the end of 2016, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia would be left without a significant number of persons with disabilities of military-professional specialities. A part of these military-professional specialities will not be able to be quality filled with new soldiers in the short term because of certain restrictions in training and civilian qualifications of soldiers, which could lead to a temporary violation of certain capabilities of the Armed Forces. In addition to this, 385 more soldiers will meet the conditions for retirement in the period after 31 December 2016. It is also necessary to add to all of these the separation of active Navy soldiers by any other legal basis. Therefore, in order to address this problem, it is proposed to amend the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Article 225, in a way that an active soldier or a sailor... The military service will be separated from the Armed Forces for an indefinite period of time after obtaining the conditions for retirement by 31 December 2019 at the latest, and an active SSS officer will be separated from the Armed Forces after obtaining the conditions for retirement by 31 December 2016 at the latest. [[You don't understand a word.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What should also be noted here is that the implementation of these amendments, i.e. this law, will not cause additional financial costs for the Ministry of Defence, i.e. for the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9088	Thank you very much to the esteemed Deputy Secretary of Defense. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Obviously. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ club, will be spoken by distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9089	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of Defence, Honorable MPs and MPs. Before us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for a law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be brought by emergency procedure. In its argument, the Proposer states that under the current law of service in the Armed Forces, by 31 December 2016, all officers with medium professional training and active soldiers, or sailors admitted to active military service for an indefinite period of time, who have completed 20 years of insurance training, should be singled out from the Armed Forces. By the end of this year, more than 22% of the total number of soldiers in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should come out with a potential application of the provisions of the applicable law in the Armed Forces. That's what we heard from our deputy secretary of defense. I have to admit, I don't know a system that could withstand such a drain in such a short period of time. I support system editing in every way, but I find it inappropriate to carry out unsustainable cuts that can only collapse the system. When we know that we are talking about the defence system, when we talk about a whole spectrum of military specialities necessary for the smooth functioning of the defence system, the reasons for the adoption of the amendments in question are quite understandable. Let us not forget colleagues and fellow MPs that we cannot create pyrotechnicians, tankers, sailors, all those specialties that we otherwise develop only in our Armed Forces, while respecting a significant time dimension. Let us not forget, too, that when considering the reasons for the motionors, we also appreciate the fact that we are talking here to the majority about people who were admitted to the service during the Homeland War. Part of these people in the event of isolation will not meet the conditions for retirement, which could result in them being singled out of a system without the right to retire. I'm talking about people we needed at one point, and now we're slowly forgetting them. However, it is primarily necessary to consider the main objective of the proposed amendments to the laws, which is to adapt the dynamics of the separation of the mentioned categories of active military personnel to the real needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. compliance with the financial and other possibilities for the renewal of the necessary personnel, in particular of the disabled military specialities. I would also like, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, to also refer to the Deputy Defence Minister and our Ministry of Defence to reflect on the second career project. It is a project that has been developed in all democratic states in the world. That people who have been in the defense system, the police, the security intelligence system, are going to retire for 50 years we're going to open up the possibility of another career to them. Why don't you use those people? Well, these are people who have a lot of knowledge, who have a lot of abilities. These people have been invested and all developed democratic societies in the West are encouraging, helping these people to go to another career afterwards. Is this second career in the state administration, is it in the ministries, is it in public enterprises, is it in private companies, clearly, by ability but we need those skills. Because it's the knowledge of governance, it's the knowledge of management, it's the knowledge of human leadership, it's the knowledge of human development. So I believe that this country of ours is not so rich, intellectually rich, that we finally don't start with another career project. And get those people out of the system to get in that second career. That these people know that they have this opportunity and that the system takes good care of it. Because when I think of how many of my friends, my comrades could be very useful to further develop Croatian society, further development of the Croatian state and they are home today. After all, I believe that there are ways to include these people and to use them because these people still need our Croatia. We representatives at the HDZ Representatives Club hold that the proposed amendments to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are justified and necessary and contribute to the stability of our defence system. And to that end, we also propose an amendment to this existing proposal, which should not only be proposed to soldiers but also to officers with medium professional training that they too can be kept means not until 31 December 2016 but that they too can, means our officers who we should have been able to do in these three years, meaning by 31.12.2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft of the Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal, reads: "A working officer who has a medium professional training will be separated from the Armed Forces after obtaining the conditions for retirement under the Annual Staff Detachment Plan and no later than 31 December 2019." In that sense, the HDZ Representatives Club supports the proposed law in question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9090	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9091	Dear fellow General Krstic, I agree absolutely, the foundation of free Croatia is the Croatian Army, officers, officers, soldiers who showed skills in the Homeland War both military and other, governing forces, which were important in order to defeat a large Serb occupation army that was much more equipped. These people who had been decommissioned from the Homeland War with these skills should have passed on, and some had passed on their knowledge. Unfortunately, in the last 15 years many have been rejected without need, so I think you could still serve as a professional soldier for the Croatian Army. I believe that these soldiers cuts, huge cuts to officers and officers, as you have said, are not good for our Armed Forces, and surely these people can serve the Croatian state, both in the Croatian Army and in the other management structures of this society and various bodies that need them in Croatia. It is a great potential that they have, courage, determination, management skills, have the power to lead and I believe that these people should continue to transfer their knowledge bloodyly acquired for Croatian freedom our future means to professional soldiers both voluntarily and professionally. And that's why I'm giving you absolute support, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9092	Thank you. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9093	Dear colleague and friend, comrade Mr. Bulj, I absolutely agree that these people without whom we all would not be free today, that these people deserve and need more. When I look at my own example, look, I've been in charge in the war, and I've worked behind that for 15 years at a private company. It's all very similar. I have a battlefield, now I have a market. I had to know how to choose people there, and I have to know how to choose people here at the firm. I had to be able to assess the situation. I have to be able to assess the situation at the firm. I had to know how to develop people. I need to know how to develop people. I had to create a good environment for work, I have to create a good environment for work at a private company. I have to have a good product. I have to have a good product there. So it's all like that. So management of a complete, personal example, there's a personal example, none of the people, therefore huge wealth, we have a huge wealth in our Armed Forces and we have had it, apart from what they do a lot, I think we have the task of all together in the Parliament and our government to use these people, to put these people transparently based on their abilities in another career. And I believe that our Croatia will be better, better quality and trust me that much better will be some projects and will work and that we will have better management and better management at all levels in our Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9094	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9095	I'm not an expert on military matters, but I can't keep this quiet, I can't shut up. You're one careful speech because you were speaking in front of the club, in fact, drawing out what it means to pass a potential amendment to this law. So if I heard you well about 20% of the people who have high school, they'd pull out of the Armed Forces. It's an enormous risk, an enormous risk. And another thing, please answer my question, you've been involved in the Homeland War every honor you have, is there in these geopolitical relations right now in the world very risky, secondly do you think that only college-educated commanders can be there, is there perhaps some cyber-military that will war with drones? Because we know that without a man, it's all just iron. And please tell me why the continued weakness of the defence power of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia from aviation, and everything under the lack of money? So we see that this debt doctrine, so you owe, you have no money, you fuck everywhere, you sell the property and you reduce the potential of the Armed Forces. These are important questions, and I personally believe that a mandatory period of 3 months should be introduced because young men do not usually serve us with a gun. What do you think of that as the man who brought this freedom with the others?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9096	Here's a colleague, Damir Krstičević, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9097	I apologize to the President of the Parliament. Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleague Lovrinovic, on this first issue, 22% of this applies only to soldiers, means soldiers, if so, so we have to extend that we still have 3 years to keep these people in the system because we need them. There are also officers, there are about a hundred officers with medium professional training who should fire the same, there is no point and they need them, and especially what you said in our Homeland War clearly that academics prepare, I never want, academics prepare she is important, knowledge never enough and we always need her. However, we had excellent officers, excellent officers who had even trusted me in high school. So in this Homeland War, everyone has a chance and here I have really great experience with officers who were top commanders with medium professional training. Of course now it means new times, new threats, new risks that are around us that we have to pursue, to look for even more knowledge among these officers in our armed forces. What you said on the subject means abilities, I think our army is a winning army and that it is a top army, but we all see that every day is a new day, every day are new circumstances and we have to find ways to really keep some abilities. Well, you know, I remember what's in the country doesn't pay off, this doesn't pay off, so this doesn't pay off, so we don't want this, so we don't want the bread, so we don't want the cattle, so where are we today? That's why I say about our army, I mean I don't want to compromise it. So we need these abilities and military aviation in terms of threats, we need other abilities, and we need to find ways to make decisions and find financial resources for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9098	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9099	President-in-Office of the Parliament, General this in every personnel department system, the personal department is most important. If that doesn't work, all the other suits fall into the water. It's a vacuum. We see it today in the Croatian state where we have two crises, one is a management crisis, another is a moral crisis. He mentioned General Krsticevic what we need urgently in the draft, although it is not yet proposed in the law, one law of transition of people leaving the Armed Forces and going into civilian life. This is Canada, for example. She spent on her veterans returning from Afghanistan and other millions of dollars. Where are we? I wonder about education, I'm talking about education, there's three ways of progress in the military, what about... the salary frame? The most important factor in the military is morality and experience, not technique. We can never reach that level of waste that other countries have. For example. The Israelis spend more on the system... the entire army, but if we don't contain those heads, if they're not decently paid men will leave. I wonder what happened to all those people who finished West Point? Where did these people end up? We need such people because they have one thing missing in Croatia and it is primarily integrity and they are not defiled by the spirit of communism and from that former system. People are patriots ready to work and where are they after this, when they come out of the Armed Forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9100	Thank you. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9101	Dear General Glasnović, what you said, means as far as people are concerned I think that's the story we need a system, we need people, people are the only difference Croatia has. And we have to try to always have a good, honest relationship with our people in the system. I'm just on my example, I'm in three o'clock and with another, at three o'clock I had to leave my office as if I'd never been there, at three o'clock. Okay, it happened, it's something unseen, so I had to pick up my own. We can't do that, we can't do that. I say these people now who are leaving the system, so we need to find ways to prepare them for that second career, how to prepare them for that transition you're talking about, the developed and real countries are doing, America, Germany, Israel, Canada. They prepare a year before people come out, go, prepare them, give them an alternative, have a choice, have and prepare, have all those programs that are needed so that tomorrow he still feels useful. You know what happens to us? From today when he comes out, it's like he's never gone again. Well, no one remembers that man anymore. He can't come into that institution anymore, he can't drink coffee, he can't say hello, he, we delete it, like it's gone with a rubber. We can't do that. We have to change these things, we have to change people's attitudes. We need people, we have a crisis at all levels, we have a crisis of governance, and we need people to continue to use them and help us further, the development of Croatian society. I repeat, we are not rich enough to get rid of these people in one way. So in that part, here is the deputy minister, the support to start with one systematic preparation, quality preparation and development of the second career project. It's a normal thing for our people to be useful to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9102	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. We only have one, distinguished representative, Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9103	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister. So here is this law by an emergency procedure that has arrived in the Croatian Parliament, which is proposed to balance the separation from the Armed Forces of Croatian soldiers and Croatian sailors who should be singled out and fired without the right to retire in 2016 by 31.12. This law is commendable because it will save a good part of the staff, prepare a new period for the reception of new soldiers, sailors. But just as it has been pointed out, the HDZ Representatives Club has proposed that the same treatment be done with officers who have medium professional equipment in the Croatian Army so that there really is no spillage that could not be compensated so that the really armed forces would not be defiled in the composition of both officers and also professional soldiers who are the exceptional value of the Republic of Croatia and... They should never have been singled out on many occasions by various criteria that did not meet many times even the legal basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was all there, regardless of the depolitisation of the military, many times the Ministry of Defence was placed in a position like the President of the State to place all the incomparable and insecure according to their assessment and not according to the legal criteria outside the system. In order to prevent now what the law passed from 31 December 2016, it was necessary to move into these urgent changes and additions to laws that would not cost the Republic of Croatia anything and did not need to prepare any additional funds in the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence. The cuts that would happen by seizing out this large number of soldiers, sailors and officers would certainly disable those international tasks that the Republic of Croatia has taken over. I am sure that a good part of the officer's staff that today serves in missions around the world where they are lauded in order, where, without any incidents, they serve and present our homeland in the best light, it would be difficult to withstand such an outflow by the end of the year if it were not for these amendments and the addition of the Law. We've acted as a state on many occasions as if it were '95. The mission of the Croatian Army has been completed and we do not need it anymore. By reducing, by significantly reducing the number as well as reducing the budget resources all the time, we bring a message that is not good, we violate the state of the system, we don't improve it. And what we've tried in the airplane remont, it's hard to say that something has been done rather than more could be considered to have been thrown into the wind, given that today we are not able to defend the right of our sky. This law I am sure will not harm anyone but will help a good part of those professional, honorable, and quality who have served the Homeland in an extremely loyal and confidential way throughout the whole time. I believe that further efforts by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in all the fundamental parts of the law that will help professional and quality to be trained continue to stay as long as possible in the Croatian Army because they know the problem thoroughly, they know their tasks, they are responsible and they can carry out the best that the ministry has put before them, what the Croatian people have put before them, what the Croatian people are and expects of the Croatian army, their soldiers, officers and officers. It is commendable to say that it will really help the good work of those and that your analysis that you have done is an expression of the constant and objection of both officers and soldiers who have been terrified of their fate after this legal deadline that was foreseen. I believe that by 2019, when this deadline is scheduled to be extended for both soldiers and sailors as well as for officers, enough time will be achieved to create a new frame that will be perfected and ready for any tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9104	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Krstičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9105	Dear fellow Djakic, I would like to hear what your position is about what I was saying earlier, meaning this second career. Here's to your example, I know you from the Homeland War, you were an excellent commander at 81. Virovitic warfare, so today you're a parliamentary representative, so you're a different career. Here, I'm in my second career, my colleague Miro Bulj in my second career, I don't know if I have an example of Damir Vangelic's boyfriend who was top-notch in the war today is an excellent manager in Adria, so I have Drazenko Kopalar, top-notch in the war, today he's a member of the Management of the Business Bank, so to have, but that's too little. I look at my commanders that I meet every day, I see on the side, they don't participate, they were top commanders, managers and all, so what's your position on that second career? How's that other career? How these people can be more because we need them, we need them in Croatia today as transparent as they are with their abilities, how this society can open up even more opportunities for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9106	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Josip Djakic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9107	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Krstičević, we know each other very well from the Homeland War, and I believe that the proposal for a second career and the possibility of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers would surely serve the Republic to help, my proposal is quite concrete. I have already proposed and will now tell you in front of the Croatian public, in the state service of the Republic of Croatia, I would certainly have the priority of hiring those who served military service in the Croatian Army. This would be one of the priority criteria, as Croatian defenders or children of Croatian dead defenders have a priority that is unfortunately not respected today. This would be an additional criterion that could be respected if only those serving the Croatian regular service in the Croatian Army could be employed by the state services. Then we would have one reserve so strong and scary that would always be available to the Croatian state, which would not have to be paid because they are employees of both state administrations and at any moment would be possible with a mobilization permit to function as a unit. Another way of providing Croatian soldiers is known in America, it is famous in Israel, it is all the best managers, these are all the best people who manage the best resources in these Western democracies, so I welcome your initiation that you said today through this debate and I believe that we will continue to try to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9108	Thank you very much. That would end the discussion of this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The following is the Final Proposal for the Law amending the law on service in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 40. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the club's amendment, Deputy Defence Minister, the respected Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9110	Thank you very much, President. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9111	Thank you. The amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. I therefore vote on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on service in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote, who's in favour of the bill? I'm asking for a result. 128 for, none against or abstention. I find that the Law amending the law on service in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia has been unanimously adopted, together with the amendment adopted. And we would move to the next point, which is - The final proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 41 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204, 206 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? I read that. Dear Deputy Minister of the Interior Davor Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9113	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. During the application of the applicable Arms Act, significant progress has been seen with regard to the security of citizens but certain deficiencies have also been seen, primarily in relation to administrative procedures carried out with regard to requests for the supply and registration of weapons that need to be simplified in certain cases. By applying the Arms Act and the applicable Explosive Substances Act, they are intertwined in parts that regulate the business of economic operators and it is decided that the matter regulated by the applicable Arms Act should be regulated by the adoption of two new laws by the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens and the Law on Explosive Substances and Production and Transport of Weapons. The Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens will regulate the part of the matter of the applicable Law on Weapons relating to the procedure for the purchase and registration of arms supplied by the citizen for civil use and the way in which those weapons are handled. A procedure in the event of the death of the owner of the death of a weapon, circumstances under which arms and ammunition are taken from the citizens and carrying weapons across the state border. Part of the material contained in the applicable Arms Act relating to the pursuit of arms-related activities will be regulated by the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons which will regulate the conditions for the production and transport of weapons, the intermediation of arms, the repair and processing of weapons, the transport of weapons, the testing and marking of firearms and the conditions for the establishment and management of civilian firearms. The paper in the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens primarily refers to administrative procedures carried out for the supply and registration of weapons that need to be simplified in certain cases. Therefore, for persons who already have a valid arms list for some type of weapon, the procedure for establishing the general and specific conditions necessary for the possession of weapons shall not be implemented except as to whether there is a reasonable reason for the supply of additional quantities and types of weapons. In addition, the procedure for establishing general and specific conditions other than health conditions will not be implemented even when the arms list for weapons already registered is extended. In cases where weapons for private use will be obtained by a police officer, a member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, a member of the Judicial Police, a member of another state body authorised to hold and carry official weapons, and a security guard will not be subject to the procedure of establishing the general and specific conditions necessary for the supply of arms. Since those persons are authorised to hold and carry official arms under special rules, and the conditions for holding and carrying arms for them are laid down in the procedures laid down in specific rules. Weapons temporarily seized in administrative proceedings, as a criminal or criminal offence has been brought against the owner of the weapon, the owner of the weapon will have to sell, donate or incapacitate only by the lawfulness of the decision taken in a criminal or criminal proceedings which has been convicted of a criminal offence or offence. In this way, it will avoid situations where the owner is deprived of arms as his property and later released by the court in charge of a criminal offence or offence against him. In particular, during the implementation of the applicable Arms Act, there was a situation where the gun owner had to sell, donate or incapacitate the weapon after the power of the decision to confiscate the weapon adopted in the administrative procedure against the owner of the weapon. As the offence, and in particular the criminal proceedings generally take longer than the administrative procedure, there have been cases where the court of gun owner in a criminal or criminal proceedings has cleared the guilty, and before that the owner of the weapon had to sell, donate or disable the weapon, since the administrative procedure for the confiscation of the weapon was legally terminated prior to the criminal or criminal proceedings. The law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens will specify the conditions under which sports, shooting organisations can borrow weapons to their members. Thus, a sports shooting organisation will have to inform its member about the purpose of lending to the competent police authority or a station that will check whether a member of the sports shooting organisation meets the prescribed conditions for the possession of weapons, thus avoiding the situation that the weapon is loaned to a person who, for example, is convicted of a criminal offence or a serious offence, and the sports shooting organisation has no notice about it. The Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens will allow gun owners holding a valid armed gun list registered for the purpose of hunting or sports shooting to charge ammunition for their own use. To this end, they will be able to hold up to 2,000 g of gunpowder, and they will be able to obtain ammunition components. In order to implement the Law on the acquisition and registration of arms, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget. For the purpose of parallel reference in the procedure of the adoption of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens and of the Explosive Substances Act, as well as the production and transport of weapons, their adoption by emergency procedure is proposed. Namely, the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons shall be adopted by the Directive on the making available of explosives for civilian use and control over which the time limit for transposition into national legislation was 19.4.2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9114	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Obviously not. I'm opening a debate. And excuse me, we have a replica of one. I didn't see it. Here you are, dear representative Goran Dodig, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9115	Mr. Blažević, my replica is just a form to ask you a question. If this relates to weapons, hunting weapons that the defenders have and to the fact that many of them, because of me, I mean poor diagnosis and ability-deprived weapons, hunting weapons. I'm talking about a hunter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9116	Here will be answered by the esteemed Deputy Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9117	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's about everything, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9118	... support this one. [[Specially enabled.]] The procedure is more important than the content clearly. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9119	Thank you very much. We will now continue and, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Željko Fiolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9120	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. We believe that we have before us the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens with the final proposal of the law which has been submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 20 April 2016. We believe that the new Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons is heading towards correcting certain shortcomings identified by the existing Arms Act. This applies in particular to the management of administrative procedures. However, allow me and a few constructive suggestions on this law. The Council of the European Community adopted a Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons from 1806/1991 91/477/EEC, which was amended by the European Parliament and the Council by the Council Directive amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the supply and possession of arms from 21.05.2008. This Directive and its amendments to the EU have laid down rules allowing for the control of the supply, registration and movement of weapons within the EU Member States. As the Republic of Croatia is well known, it was therefore necessary to bring its legislation on arms with that directive before joining the EU, as has been done by the adoption of a new Law on Weapons published in the National Journal 63/2007, 146/2008. and 59/2012. The primary question is why the Arms Act, which is fully in line with that Directive, is repealed and has not been observed by EU member states. The fundamental question is why the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of arms of citizens no longer regulates the area relating to companies engaged in the activities prescribed by the applicable Law on Weapons, Shooting, training of citizens for the use of firearms, testing and marking of firearms or the supply of weapons to legal persons, for example. have security guards or engage in hunting tourism already it is transferred to another law, which is the Law on Explosive Substances and the Production and Transport of Weapons. No EU Member State has such a legal solution. For example, some European arms laws should be cited. For example. The Slovenian Arms Act, which regulates this issue almost identically with Articles 35 to 41, as regulated in the current Arms Act. Almost in the same way this issue is regulated in the Polish Law on Weapons and very similar in Austrian, German, Czech and Finnish. Furthermore, the draft law prescribes conditions for space and technical equipment, which is absolutely unnecessary. It is true that only basic technical conditions are prescribed, but spatial technical conditions are prescribed by the Regulation, which is the basic nomotechnical rule. The issue is now resolved by the Health Checks Regulation for determining the health capacity to hold and carry arms (the National Journal of the European Union), No. 22/33.). Technology is progressing, and these conditions will have to change over time. It is therefore logical to prescribe such a question by means of a regulation because, in the future, it will be easier and faster to amend the rule than the law, so that neither entities performing such checks nor citizens will find themselves in a legal doubt. The next question is not to check with people who re-procur weapons. It is true that the practice so far has shown that a citizen who acquires and registers weapons is checked every time within a short period of time. Apart from not having to bring new medical beliefs, you should not even go to training. But we believe this is a very dangerous thing, a weapon, so the question is, why doesn't someone who gets guns check every time? It is ultimately police tasks, so security, protection of life and property of citizens. Finally, the HDZ club will still support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9121	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9122	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, allow the proposing representatives to just say something at first that was missed when the agenda was open. In fact, the parent committee also proposed that the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens and the proposal of the Explosive Substances Act be discussed in the first reading or to remove the emergency mark from these legal proposals. We, as a club of HNS liberal Democrats, join this request by the parent board because we believe that the law is not well written to the end. Both of these laws have, in fact, come from a previous law. As you heard the urgency is justified for applying the provisions of the 4 European directives. We're past the deadline anyway, I think it was April 18th. Therefore, no one will fall to the sky if we continue to discuss these two legal proposals for another 20 days. And I think that gold would be worth it for a whole series of reasons. Namely, the existing texts that have been delivered to us, I am now talking about both laws because they are related to Siamese, and I am sorry that it is not in this sense open to a united debate on both, are actually presented to us without any report on the consultation with the interested public. I remind you that both of these legal texts are indirectly printed with the protection of human rights. In fact, practice shows that the worst forms of human rights violations, including the fundamental right to life, are being exercised precisely through the use of, or abuse of, weapons and explosives. In that sense, this page that shows so-called. the report on the consultation carried out with the interested public is empty. It's something that's inadmissible. Neither this nor any other government should come before the Croatian Parliament with a proposal that nobody relevant from the interested public could show. In this regard, we underline the importance of the parent committee’s proposal to discuss the law in the first reading. And to give the proposer the opportunity to perfect this text and resolve a whole series of issues. Some of them were presented by counterpart Fiolic from the HDZ club, and I felt that the HDZ club would not accept such a bill, but that's his magic sentence at the end of the law, but we'll still support him for that. However, I want to say that Croatia is an overarmed country and we all know that, it is not a public secret, it is a public matter. For years, the Ministry of the Interior has traditionally implemented specific actions to collect weapons and explosives from those who hold them illegally and without any punishment in the hope that a large amount of weapons, ammunition and other explosive devices will collect and destroy them because the backdrops of the Homeland War of course exist. And we need to be aware of that. Many people don't hold it as a trophy weapon but keep it secret, have their own arsenal. You know, in the dramatic theory of a gun that appears in the first act, it must have gone off by the end of the show, but I would remind you that this is a civil society and that Hegel has long defined civil society as a disarmed society and in this sense we must be aware that the greatest number of crimes and crimes against life, physical security and human health actually occur by using weapons. Likewise, we must be aware that all the crimes and offences committed in their nature are in fact the space in which the abuse of weapons can occur as far as it is owned. We warn that the last, that in this text of the law, an existing solution to how the authorisation for the supply and possession of weapons and the armed list is issued is well solved but every next step of the extension of importance is not well resolved because it is intended not to carry out any additional, re-checking in the supply or whether the person concerned is capable and similar to having at all arms and explosives as ammunition or similar to what is not good. Because we know very well that there are situations not only of the family, but of any other violence that may occur in the meantime, and if there are no binding records between police administrations, criminal and criminal courts, it may happen that it is practically issued with the approval or extension of the validity of the authorisation and that it has at all been verified or received relevant information as to whether a criminal prosecution has been initiated, or whether an investigation is being carried out, and in particular whether there is a judicial verdict. This is not good and it would be ideal if the police not only had the knowledge obtained from the reported cases themselves, but also from the practice of all courts had an overview of what was going on and if in such situations they were not only in a position to refuse the request for extension, but that the requirement for holding or carrying weapons would cease to apply at the same time. The fact that we had so far in the law a solution that the owner of such a weapon had to get rid of it so that we had to get them into an unenviable position because they had to sell it and give it away and then later it turned out to be a court verdict after a year, three or five that they were innocent is just a theoretical and... a model. There are options to store or store such confiscated weapons as there are options to store and store all other funds seized in proceedings against natural or legal persons. So it's not and it can't be a good excuse, it's certainly not an excuse. In this regard, we ask that colleagues and fellow MPs accept the position of the parent committee in voting on this bill to make this a first reading and give an opportunity to the proposing that, until the second reading of this ambiguity, and also the procedurally wrong things set out, and that in the second reading, we have a law with which we will be satisfied and not which we will have to criticise. Keeping a weapon can be fatal if the system that allows it controls and controls is not well placed. In a country that has lived through wartime disasters, which came out of a war 20 years ago, in which there was, or not to be, to the life or death of hundreds of thousands of people, a country where more than five hundred thousand defenders went through must have a sense of sensitivity when it comes to this matter. From the safety of its own, from relations and respect to all citizens, to children who can come into possession, that is, the use of that weapon, and it did not happen once that because they were holding weapons inadequately in many cases and illegally there were severe tragedies. As a legislator, we must narrow down the space for such a thing to happen or that the weapon is being misused. If it is necessary to give the Ministry of Interior and Police Administration even greater authority to carry out weapons collection actions. It seems to me that in the last year or two, this action has slowly quieted down, which is not good, at least as far as my city is concerned, I know that we've spent it successfully in cooperation with defense associations, in cooperation with organizations that wanted to help, and I think that it should be insisted because everything that is found in houses, in homes is later placed and as a difficult circumstance in the event of any other violations. We need to help people who don't know what to do with weapons left behind from the Homeland War and help those who are not armed to never come before anyone else's pipe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9123	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I understand your appeal and understand this fear of the problems we have in society, but I would say primarily with illegal weapons. You didn't fence enough here. The problem is illegal weapons and all problems arise with illegal weapons. But this is how you said that all problems or the greatest number of crimes committed are weapons. So we could say, you know, cars crash, so we're not driving cars. Because car accidents, the number of people killed in car accidents, rather than the problem of those killed by guns. So now we should ban the use of the vehicle. I don't think we come to this kind of debate in that sense. Croatia is not an overarmed country. We can only speak how many of us have these illegal weapons. But the weapons of both Croatian hunters and the Croatian Hunting Union and the legislation of the state are well arranged when it comes to legal weapons. And Croatia has no problem with legal weapons. We have bad experience from the past when every Croat who came looking for weapons was already suspected because he was immediately a terrorist so the Croats might have been a little more eager when they got their country and their independence, a larger number became involved in the hunters and wanted to have weapons. Unfortunately, in the Homeland War, it was bad experience, the use of weapons left over from the Homeland War, illegal weapons. And that's what we need to discuss, that's where we need to look for a solution. But a lot of things about the Croatian Hunting Union are being solved here, for hunters with orderly weapons, and here we need to help hunters and the hunting alliance that what is legal and holding arms and the use of weapons is easier and that we strengthen the hunting organization, to help them. And not to some new legal solutions here yet... , i.e. we disable the quality of the organization's work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9125	Thank you for answering the honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9126	Comrade Sanader, I thank you for this comment, and now I can say something just for myself, so as a representative, not in the name of the club. I'm the kind of hard liberal who doesn't like guns or anything. As far as I'm concerned, hunting weapons wouldn't be kept at home, they'd be in paid soybeans in hunting associations. Because I repeat, every carrying weapon is actually at great risk. Not for the one who's a formal owner, but also for his family. In this respect, this law, its correct adoption, the setting of a model and its proper implementation, is the only possible way to combat illegal weapons holding. So he's in a direct relationship with it and there's no other law that could regulate it or sanction it, so illegal holding weapons than this law. In this regard, we believe that there is a need to discuss this law again, to review each of these provisions again well. I don't doubt the good intentions of the promoter, I don't doubt the good intentions of anyone, especially hunters, especially athletes, but let's, harmonize the approach in this and facilitate their functioning but let's not further liberalise the conditions under which someone can extend their documents to prove the right to obtain and carry weapons or an armed sheet. This should be as strictly placed as in the first purchase. Because we change from day to day, from month to month. And our ability to drive cars isn't the same as when we were 20 and 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9127	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9128	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, I will also at the beginning, as well as my colleague on behalf of the HNS Club, say that as a SDP club, we support the conclusion of the home policy committee and national security that this law, as well as the one that is next on the agenda, is conducted in the first reading, so that we do not see in the ordinary procedure absolutely any reason to give ourselves at least 15 days, 20 days so that the remarks that we have here today, to study them and that, possibly in the second reading, we expect to come with an improved bill. As in 2006, in mid-2006, when I also spoke on behalf of the SDP Club about the Arms Act then, we will warn of one basic and key issue for us when it comes to holding and carrying weapons and legislation that regulates it. And that's that this law will in no way make us make a bigger move and improve the fight against those who have illegal possessions, possessions, purchases, use weapons. So the problem of illegal weapons which is a problem in Croatia and we all know it very well, and when these days our mouths are all from the president of the state to the parliamentary deputies full of national security issues, they threaten national security, then I guess we should remind ourselves of everything that's been going on in the last few years and what's going on in the Western Balkan, regional or neighbourhood countries as much as anyone else, and it's a matter of huge amounts of illegal weapons. Neither Croatian citizens are excluded from this, and we need to face it. And this law, as in 2006, will absolutely not contribute to the fight of those who acquire and use illegal weapons, so more Mr. Deputy, I must now say that in this, in violation provisions, if you have seen, which infractions in cash are reduced and in prison work are reduced when it comes to holding and carrying weapons, only those relating to the punishment of those who illegally possess weapons, use, purchase, etc. Look at colleagues and colleagues in the violation provisions of this law, here is, in particular, Article 72 and Article 74, therefore, penalties for infringements of the provisions of procurement and keeping and the use of illegal weapons are reduced and prison sentences are reduced by 50%. So I'd like to ask for an explanation on behalf of the Club of Proposers, which is why. The other violations are more or less the same. What we lack in reason for the proposal of this law except that it does not exist, except that there is an empty list of those statements regarding consultation with the interested public. Therefore, in this reason the law lacks whether anything has moved on the issue of holding and carrying arms and possession of illegal weapons in Croatia since the adoption of the law in 2006 until today. Since all this is missing together, so I would just like to say, so, compared to 2006 we used the data then in the discussions in Croatia, it was owned by 371 thousand 378 pieces of different weapons. When you look at today's data, today in Croatia, so I'm talking about a registered weapon, today there are 276,000 registered weapons. So, given that we have then sharpened and introduced a newspaper on the issue when it comes to the succession of weapons, especially when it comes to hunting weapons, that is, we have stepped up and we have introduced the part relating to obtaining certain permits, or meeting the criteria, obviously the number of legally registered weapons has decreased, so by something more than, by about 100,000 pieces. The weapons in Croatia are legally owned, there are nearly 110 thousand citizens reported, and from that I have found the number 3000 women with legal permission to hold arms. When we talk about illegal weapons, I will return to it again, and we strongly oppose the reduction of penalties, criminal provisions or criminal provisions under this law that are related to the keeping of illegal weapons, so much as we must remind you when you look at statistics, when you take reports from both the Ministry of the Interior and the State's Attorney and all those who deal with this problem, over 90% of all the crimes committed with the use of firearms are exactly with illegal firearms. During 2015, we do not have too much information about the seizure of illegal weapons, but during 2015 more than 105 thousand weapons were seized, different from automatic weapons, grenades, bombs, guns, millions of ammunition and a certain number of explosives. I'd just like to remind ourselves quite often in our media the data about every so much is revealed that someone has the right warehouse to say illegal weapons, so let's say that in the tenth month of last year the police found in one house 7 pieces of various low explosive devices, 1 hand grenade launcher, 7 machine guns, 7 automatic rifles, 38 rifles of various calibers, 19 pistols of various calibers, 8 various abandoned tubes and 5 474 pieces of various abandoned and gun ammunition. So I repeat illegal weapons in Croatia we still don't have enough good fight and a successful fight against that illegal weapon. We welcome as the SDP Club action, so citizens can continue to bring these weapons without punishment, etc. But apparently many prefer to keep a huge number of these funds in their own houses, basements, attics, and not to say how dangerous it is then, sometimes it is children, etc. Let me now say a few sentences as I have warned the Committee on National Security where I am comparing the current applicable law with this, so we also consider as we have then advocated, and then the Government in 2006 accepted this initiative, and we now advocate that in Article 12, in general terms, in point three of the general conditions to return the part relating especially to domestic violence offences. There is growing violence in the family, so to speak, marked by increasing brutality. This shows you all the data from all the reports and the police and our attorneys and welfare centres and in the good part of that kind of violence is used and the weapons are legal, whether illegal. Furthermore, we ask that the part that says that once you get a weapon in any other case, you have to re-supply all the conditions required in the first supply of the weapon, not just the one that applies to the health care. And we just don't see why I'm saying it like that. Eventually, someone here mentioned hunters. So we can talk about those who are involved in hunting and shooting, so as a sporting activity, that the five-year term extends to 10 years. I think that would be fine. So it's about sports activities, it's about hunting societies that ultimately go through in a way that I can say my own checks. But we insist on everyone else coming back for five years every time a new weapon is requested. Also, what we consider questionable on behalf of the club, which is this new chapter introduced into the new area, in fact one article of the law, article 55, which speaks of the acquisition of weapons to civil servants and persons who are authorised to hold and carry arms under special regulations. We believe that, in the procedures for granting authorisation for the supply of firearms of category B and the procedures for granting authorisation for the collection of old weapons, they are not subject to verification of the general conditions laid down in Article 12, because these conditions have been checked for them in the procedures laid down in specific rules. We don't agree with that. It's one thing when he gets a gun because he's a police officer, because it's part of his equipment, and the other is when he's on top of it for his own personal safety, we're asking for it to be, so it's going on the same terms as all the other citizens, and we don't see the reason why something like that came in here, because that's what the bill says. Therefore, police officers, members of the Armed Forces, the Judicial Police, members of other state bodies who, according to special regulations, are authorised to hold and carry weapons at their request. And maybe you should say that statistics show that, in fact, the most common problems with weapons have exactly the same kind of people who are professionally involved with them. In fact, in the last five years, the most frequent injuries are precisely due to their lack of attention, and that is to say, whether they are police officers, soldiers or security guards. So here's why all this stuff I said, the remarks we have on behalf of the club, I'll say it like this. So, as a SDP club, we will accept this bill, but provided that it goes into regular procedure and that this is considered today by first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9129	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, she's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9130	Dear President, Croats and Croats, my presentation will be quick. In Ogulin, police headquarters, a machine gun with 100 rounds of bullets disappeared, in Varazdin, dozens of pieces of rifles, explosives, initial pods, fuses. That's still the question that our former Minister Ranka has raised. We've never come up with the results of this investigation, whether or not it's been launched, and what's going on in that matter, where that weapon ended, whether it's out there in terrorist acts, or whether it's going to be used somewhere with us. I don't know what the name was. A lot of weapons were returned by police administrations from those who had that weapon, but we don't know how many of those weapons were returned when it came to places and those who used those weapons for armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, I am very much interested in whether anything has ever been done to organise in these places, to organise a return of arms since we have absolved these citizens because of what they did besides crime and armed rebellion, that weapon of them is not excluded from their warehouses, sheds, attics and other rooms where they hid it. And I'm still interested in what is the procedure for such individuals who are apportioned for armed insurrection during the request to obtain new weapons. Whether they are going through the same procedure as Croatian citizens, whether it has increased there, whether they are investigating whether they have had any misdeeds or anything similar done at the time of the rebellion against the Republic of Croatia when they used this weapon against it. Can Croatian citizens count on the same treatment as those who have kept their country fair and square and knew what weapons are for besides hunting and others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9131	Thank you very much. It'll probably be hard to answer that question, but here's the one who answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9132	So, my colleague Culej, since you have spoken to Croatians and Croats, I will address how every parliamentary representative and representative should address the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is the only way I can say, my colleague, Culey, the Abolition Act, was passed in 1997, and these questions you ask me, so please refer a parliamentary question in writing or oral form to the competent ministries. That's how much you'd like to know as a councilman today after a few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9133	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9134	Your Honor, when we talk about weapons, we don't need to underestimate a major threat in these areas, this is... The colleagues here who are sitting here right now. [[You don't understand.]] Between the Schengen border and NATO, we have hundreds of thousands of weapons that are unregistered, e.g. Albania. When that pyramid scheme fell down, the government fell apart and half a million rifles were taken, stolen from a warehouse of military and billions of ammunition. That's one threat. If we're looking at the source of the terrorist attacks in Paris, we know where it's coming from. At the same time, there is a procedure for obtaining weapons in every civilised state, criminal security clearance, etc. And I'm wondering if there's a commission when you get a weapon because you have to pass the security test. And who does that when you get that weapon? We're wondering how many people have killed themselves only in the Homeland War or in the shootings of nowhere? What is the penalty in Croatia for firing out of nowhere? Some countries take it seriously. In Singapore, for example. The penalty is the death penalty, etc. If we can register, in the former state, who could have had an armed list? UDBA associates and a phone line over there in those most inconclusive villages when the phone cost as much as 3,000 marks. Why can't you do that today? We're the suburbs of London. ... Croatian citizens with guns. [[You don't understand.]] This is a psychological problem they keep in their homes. Maybe it takes a little bit of that education of people, psychologically one approach because we remember what it was like when some parties handed over the guns to those who had been beating us with it back in the '90s. Go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9135	Thank you. Here's the answer, or at least try to answer, Mrs. Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9136	Thank you, Mr. President. So what I can say is that I'm glad that in part you actually supported my debate on behalf of the club because you've actually raised the issue of illegal weapons. True, you only mentioned Kosovo if I am not wrong or Serbia, but all reports that speak about national security issues and at all security in particular and on Europe's soil are talking about the problem of illegal weapons in the Western Balkan countries. And that includes Croatia, therefore, and this law that we are discussing today, which I hope will be discussed again in the second reading. Unfortunately, I repeat, it does not solve the issue of illegal weapons. As for the return campaign, he invites the citizens to return their weapons, and I welcome her, and we welcome her all to the club. I think she's been out for over a decade if I'm not mistaken for water. We are aware that this is a big problem because we are a country where war ended 20 years ago and we are aware that there are many different types of weapons left in our citizens. This action should certainly continue, but we believe that it is not enough, or in some way it would be good to get as much data from the MUP to see and how much of this weapon has been returned in the last few years or since the start of that action and how much of that weapon is still in place. And find ways to kind of intensify this action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9137	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HDS, it will share the time of the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic and the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here is the first honourable representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9138	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected rapporteurs. On behalf of the club, we believe that it is necessary and necessary to pass such a law even though this area is resolved in the Republic of Croatia before entering the EU, or defined by the Law on Arms, which includes EU directives and where the rapporteur himself said that, through the adoption of this law, we have significantly increased the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the EU and thus have contributed to the safety of our fellow citizens and prevented further trade and future trafficking in illegal weapons and the holding of illegal weapons. We should also commend here all actions carried out by the Ministry of the Interior and other state bodies through the application and return of illegal weapons. So I think we should say from this pay phone and invite all of our fellow citizens who are seeing the residual weapons of the Homeland War and those that our fellow citizens are holding illegally to surrender to the competent authorities and that for that, citizens who file a report or request do not suffer any consequences. I think those actions have produced results and that we should continue to do so. It should also be commended for the activities of the Ministry of Interior and other bodies that have conducted through primary schools, secondary schools and others together with civil society associations on the awareness of our fellow citizens, especially children and teachers who work with children to learn about the danger of mines, explosive substances and weapons. I think those actions should continue. Under this law, which is proposed and the purpose of adoption is to resolve the overlapping of two laws, the Law on Weapons and the Law on Explosive Substances which regulated a similar area in different ways, and, on the other hand, to reduce administration and simplify procedures in order to legally put more weapons into the function of being held by authorised holders... and have the healthcare of the competent authority for that. On behalf of the interested public, as it is said here on behalf of the Croatian Hunting Union and all Croatian hunters, I suggest that this simplification of administrative procedures be made easier for hunters and members of sports associations to get licenses and resolve their wishes for the purchase of weapons which, for the purpose of hunting, for the purpose of shooting. And I think on their behalf, I can say that in Article 15, which says that a citizen who acquires category B firearms in order to deal with hunting or sports shooting or for personal safety, would be convinced of the health capacity to issue with a five-year period of validity, that this provision should be amended. Because according to information that we have from other EU members who do not have the required belief, the need to come up with a belief about health skills and thus not a time limit, I think that this restriction in Croatia is too short and too expensive in terms of the property and income of our fellow citizens because you must all go to your family medicine doctor to give you a picture of your health situation with which you go to a competent health institution to find a belief in health skills that costs depending on the institution to the institution, from 500 to 1000 kuna. And we think it's a big expense for members of sports associations as well as Croatian hunters. And I think that, as has already been said here, it would be quite appropriate for a period of 10 years, even I would add, with the obligation of the competent authority to warn the holder and holders of the weapons before the end of those 5 or 10 years, that he should go to the entry of a new authorisation for holding and a new permit, or a new belief in health skills, rather than going immediately into breach unless he does so himself. Furthermore, Article 18 where it is said that the holder or owner proves his ability to hold and use weapons, this proves with the assurance of the competent authority that he has passed the hunting test. We believe that this should also be extended and that the hunting card with the identification mark for the valid hunting year issued by the Croatian Hunting Federation is proven. Because the Croatian Hunting Union is a top Croatian hunting association with public powers and keeps records, issuing hunting cards with the identification of a stamp for a valid hunting year. Why does it matter? Well, that's how it's proven that the hunter is active, and that's probably when he's medically capable, and besides, before every hunting year, hunting associations have an obligation to do so on the ground to check the regularity of the weapon and check the knowledge of the use of weapons in hunters. So I think that makes sense too, and everything else would contribute to the quality of gun keeping and reduce the accidents and incidents that happen in the hunt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9139	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by the honourable representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9140	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, a respected promoter and respected colleague and fellow Members, is in my opinion a very significant law and extremely significant and it is good that we talk about this, but this law does not have only the dimension of the legal regulation of holding and carrying arms. In my opinion, he has a deep message when it comes to our attitude toward the weapon. A few days ago, I heard that the future, one of the possible future presidents of the United States, said that the US forces were in money and weapons. I'm actually appalled by that fact, but it illustrates the relationship of civilization in which we live towards weapons that are only a small part of a problem called aggression. So from that foundation, thinking about all this when I was wondering if or not I'd say no without any trouble right now. I wish the world was without weapons and people don't have any private weapons. So that's my personal position, but my personal attitude doesn't mean that it's the majority's attitude and that it's right. Here we are talking about a law that regulates the possession and carrying of weapons and we need to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it at all. It's something in itself that's inadmissible, in itself, and it's inadmissible, and it can be arranged completely and for whether punishments should be greater or not, there's no doubt about it. However, I would like to mention, I apologize, perhaps I am not a good enough representative in the Croatian Parliament for not reading this law in detail, I am surprised, it is also talking about explosive means. And the question is, what about those explosive assets that are used for Christmas or New Year's, where children get hurt, where children are left without palms, without fingers, etc., without eyes? So if it's the same regulation, it's also very important to me. And if I didn't bother you very much with this, I'd be interested in hunting weapons here, but as a part of the defense population that lost that weapon, I'd say unfairly, unfairly, because they've been diagnosed in time by different PTSD criteria, and by that definition, they can no longer have weapons. You see in England a person suffering from epilepsy must prove that there is sufficient concentration in the blood of medicines that prevent seizures and can drive a car, can have a driver's license and drive a car. If he doesn't prove it, then he can't drive a car. So, all I'm saying here is to revise the diagnosis of these people, the diagnosis each has its own, every disease has its own dynamics, and it can turn into something that is incompatible with certain actions, but that doesn't mean that this diagnosis necessarily stays permanent and life-long. Especially when in the case of PTSD. And I'm actually joining the proposals that this law goes into two readings, that it goes into two readings, and that we seriously discuss it in order to correct in this case that I'm talking about injustice to people whose hunting weapon is legal possession and I can own it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9141	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the presentation of the distinguished representative Vlaovic and she is the vice president of the House, Ante Snader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9142	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Deputy Minister and Associates. Dear fellow Vlaovic, in your position regarding Article 15(2), which refers to the health capacity, i.e. the extension of the deadline, I think it is a good proposal, but I would supplement it in a way that this could be related to primary protection, health care. If the doctor of primary health care, he has a chart, personally and each individual, he takes confirmation to extend his medical conviction, then I think it could be legally introduced to inform either the police or someone who has come up with a significant disorder, health care, and thus reduce the huge costs that hunters have when they have every 4 years to extend or 5 of this health check. And we pay our primary health care doctor a month's head start. And it would be logical, some of them don't come to him for years, it would be the most logical thing to do is to eventually warn someone who needs to be warned if there is a major change, not that hunters have to go to a health check every four years, that it extends 10 or more years or unlimited. But I think we should make a system like this, and that way we can get rid of this quality and this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9143	Thank you. The honourable representative Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9144	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, I agree with you. In the opening statement, I have stated that some EU members do not prescribe the need to believe in health skills at all, so there is no period of validity, and we think that as you do, it is quite enough to be 10 years and not as it is now in the proposal for 5 years, especially since the law states that a family doctor has an obligation to report to the competent authority if the owner, the holder of the weapon, has health problems and in this context is no longer medically capable of having and holding a weapon and I think it fully satisfies the proposal to still manage control whether or not someone is capable of having a health or not having a weapon. On the other hand, we go out financially and economically to meet the owners and gun holders especially when it comes to sports associations dealing with shooting and hunting associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9145	Thank you very much. And the last debate is on behalf of HSLS MPs, BUZ and will be spoken by the distinguished representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9146	Dear President, Deputy Minister, respected representatives of the Ministry of Interior, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will also use this debate in essence to finally make decisions that are laws that go into emergency procedures, which are laws that go into regular procedure. I personally believe that this Law on Weapons is exactly the law we should be about in view of everything that happens in Croatian society, given our history, that this is exactly the law that we should discuss a little bit more. On the other hand, I also understand the ministry's representatives unfortunately for the election, for everything that was after the election combinations. This law is one of those laws that should have already been brought into line with the European acquis. Unfortunately it's not, we're late, we've missed meeting that obligation we have and now it's simple, of course it's a rush, it's an emergency, but basically we are, and so on, we haven't fulfilled that obligation in time. So I see no reason why this law should go into emergency procedure because I really think it is extremely important that we discuss it in normal procedure, so through first reading, to discuss it, to perhaps correct some of the shortcomings that this law has or to make this law even better. That's what we as advocates have to decide. So we have to decide that really some laws that are extremely important for this country and this society are still going into normal procedure, that they can be discussed normally. I personally have some concerns about the law, I believe that the representatives of the ministry will explain it. In practice, as far as we know, there are a lot of problems related to such weapons, so the question of weapons donated by the president of the state, which is donated by ministers etc., I do not think that the law is directly defined. There are a number of other things that I think would be good, let's just say right now, and my colleague Sanader has asked a question about the doctor's own medical examinations, about the medical authority's information to doctors, about primary healthcare doctors, is that really necessary, since doctors themselves have the right to see the registers. The question arises, in my opinion, is such an illogical legal provision that, when registering and verifying the correctness of the weapon, a registered employee should kill to examine the technical regularity of the weapon itself, whether we are essentially trained, whether our employees are trained to verify the technical correctness of the weapon itself. And I noticed that, let's say, one provision specifically that I and the home Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and I have seen, and often, when we adopt a variety of laws, we happen to predict in this first part of the law, we provide for a certain provision, and then in the part where we put ourselves to kill or not put a part to which the provision relates, or it does not have a qualification of punishment, so that part is a nomotechnical part. However, I have already mentioned this to the committee itself. So, once again, I would point out that we are really considering voting at the plenary session when we are going to determine whether this law will go into emergency procedure or not, to think about it one more time, and that we might, after all, take down the urgency mark from this law because it is really necessary for this law to be well discussed, because it can, certain provisions may have negative implications for individual citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9147	Thank you very much. That's what we've finished discussing here. I'm the one who's locking them up. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next is the Final Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 41. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has proposed the next conclusion on the proposal for a law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 41. The debate will take place in the first reading. All opinions, views, objections and proposals will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. I ask the government's representative to be shown about the proposed conclusion, Deputy Minister of the Interior, the esteemed Davor Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9149	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honorable MPs and MPs. The government accepts the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security for this proposal to go into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9150	Thank you. So we start with a regular procedure. So that's, then we take this as a first reading. I am therefore voting on the proposal for a conclusion that it was adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Who is to suggest such a conclusion? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 125 for, none against or abstention. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached as proposed by the committee of directors. The following point is: - Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act and production and transport of weapons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 42 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law be discussed in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Davor Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9152	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Explosive Substances Act, which is a normised area of transport production and the use of explosive substances, was adopted in 2004. and in order to comply with the EU Directives and the more precise definition of certain areas has been amended and complemented in 2007, 2008 and 2010. However, in 2014, a new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market of explosives for civilian use and the supervision of explosives to comply with the law was adopted. Similarly, certain areas under the applicable law are not precisely normised and need to be further regulated. As a consequence of this, more significant interventions in that law have been made, the creation of a new law, also taking into account the area of transport of explosive substances regulated by the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances, the professional holder of which is another State body and the obligations relating to the transport of explosive substances for which the implementation and transposition into national legislation is the competent Ministry of Internal Affairs. In order to create legal preconditions for the adoption under legislation, the transfer of explosive substances within the EU has shown the need to unite the entire area of explosive substances into one regulation. Furthermore, the activities, production and transport of weapons are now normised by the Arms Act other than the activities of the production and transport of weapons of category A, weapons of military use which are now not regulated by any regulation which requires the adoption of a new regulation which will cover problems for all categories of weapons and legal preconditions for the adoption of the necessary legislation. The current Law on explosive substances and the Law on Weapons has already transposed a series of EU Directives that have been implemented in this law. However, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the making available of explosives for civil use on the market and the supervision of which is the time limit for transposition into the national laws of the EU Member States on 19.04.2016. It was passed on only to this law. The adoption of a single Explosive Substances Act and the production and transport of weapons will create preconditions for the adoption of appropriate regulations which will provide for more detailed conditions for the implementation of that law. It is also one of the essential objectives which aims to achieve and create preconditions for simpler, faster and more efficient inspection supervision of those activities and to enable legal persons, crafts and associations carrying out interrelated activities as easy and easier to achieve in the legal provisions in carrying out the activities in question. It is also not necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law and, in view of the obligation to transpose that Directive by 19/042016, it is proposed in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9153	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Željko Fiolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9154	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and the production and transport of weapons with a final proposal for a law aimed at uniting and standardising the area of production, transport and use of explosive substances and in order to comply with EU directives. Allow me a few constructive objections to this bill. In the whole text of the law, although the expert prepares to carry out certain tasks, for example, the Law on crafts raises the question of how the economy will progress if, for example, it insists on the production of explosive substances that the person has completed at least a higher level of professional training or a pre-graduate university, or a study in the field of technical science, which is a person who is in a foreign country and who is not a member of the EU, has completed a course of expertise that does not determine the degree of expertise. Furthermore, the question is whether we can condition the foreigners we approve of doing the work prescribed by this proposal, that they must know the Croatian language and the Latin letter, because in this way and here we will definitely prohibit access to foreign investors. In addition, any requirement to carry out any activity is re-emerged by unnecessary administration. For example, the applicant for the production of explosive substances shall be asked to provide the information on the responsible person in the legal person or craftsman, the name, last name and address of the residence or residence, the OIB, the designation of the responsible person for the production of explosive substances in the legal person or craftsman, and proof that the same person is employed in a legal person or craft for an indefinite period in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act, the proof of the right of ownership or the right to use of the objects in which the production and storage of explosive substances will be carried out, which shall have a useful licence or other document proving the legality of the building and the purpose of the building for the storage and production of explosive substances. And all this data is available to both citizens and police, both through google search engines in the court register and e-land books. The use of a police-led register is unnecessary and talk. Allow me a few more words about the comments by the hunters. Therefore, the remark relates to the chapter 11 of the civilian shooting range. Therefore, Article 78(1) of the civil range may be established by legal persons, crafts or associations when they are granted approval by the Ministry. We propose to add in paragraph 1: ‘The provisions of this law shall not apply to hunting range used by legal persons, crafts or associations registered to carry out hunting activities for the purpose of targeting and testing hunting weapons of hunters according to the rules of hunting. So the Croatian Democratic Community's closing club will still support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the next one will speak for the distinguished representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9156	Thank you, Mr. President. So, on behalf of the club, otherwise I'm sorry we haven't united the debate on these two laws. But so I just want to repeat a few sentences, so as a club, we support the proposal of the parent committee's conclusion that this law is also going in two readings. So, today's debate is to be the first reading, regardless of the fact that this directive complies with this law, that is to say, our legislation is in line with the other Member States where the deadline was 19 April of this year. I repeat, we do not think that there would be any problem with the extension of the harmonisation in 15 or 20 days, and the more that is here, the more it is not just that what has been written so far in the Law on Weapons is being transposed into this Law on Explosive Substances, and the production and transport of weapons, it is also about the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances. Therefore, part of this, the area of transport of explosive substances is regulated by the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances. Therefore, we believe that this law deserves two readings more than even in this law the debate was not with the interested public and unfortunately, and here you have left only an empty sheet of paper. And since this is about not only the legal not only of the physical but also of the legal persons that there are a large number of interested parties who would participate in the public debate and thus contribute to the final proposal of the law being good. So the SDP club will support this proposal but in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9157	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break to announce it immediately. So today we're going to work up to 13 points, and this is going to unite points 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 because it's actually very, very similar. We could've done these last two, but that's not what we did. This is what we're gonna do for an expedition. So I'll see you again at 3:00. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 13,08 hours. The following is the Final Proposal for the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 42. Proposer to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: On the Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and on the Production and Transport of Weapons with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The 42nd debate will take place in the first reading. All opinions, views, objections and proposals will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of the proposed conclusion. Again, Deputy Minister of the Interior esteemed Davor Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government also accepts this proposal from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security that this bill goes into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9160	Thank you. I therefore vote on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Who's in favor of such a proposal? Please vote. What's the score? 125 for, not one abstention, not against. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9161	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have proposed a united discussion of these five next points. - Final bill amending the Law on patent, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35; - Final proposal for a law amending the Mark Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 37; - Final draft law amending the Act on Industrial Design, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36; - Final proposal for a law amending the Code on Geographical Origin Tags and designations of origin of products and services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 38; - Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconducts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39; Is there any objection to that? So we accept that we go all five points in a joint debate. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Education, Science, Culture. Reports were received at the session. Does the proposal's representative, the Honorable Deputy Minister, Mr. Hrvoje Schlezak, want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9162	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, respected representatives and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a law amending the Law on patents, a law amending the Law on trade marks, a law amending the Act on Industrial Design, a law amending the Law on the designations of geographical origin and the designations of origin of products and services and a law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products with drafts of the final proposals of those laws. Those laws seek to ensure that legal certainty and efficiency are strengthened in the protection and exercise of industrial property rights in relation to ensuring an effective process of reviewing decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute. Amendments shall be made to the abovementioned laws with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the State Administration System Act in such a way that decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute as the central authority of the State Administration are no longer subject to an appeal but may be initiated by an administrative dispute. In this respect, the suspension of the Institute of Appeal and the related termination of the work of the Boards of Appeal in the field of industrial property rights as the current independent second-degree body which decides to appeal to decisions of the State Intellectual Property Office in the administrative procedures of the recognition of the right of industrial ownership and, as a legal remedy, to the administrative action of the Administrative Court in Zagreb and its resolution by an urgent procedure is foreseen. The rules of jurisdiction of only one Administrative Court of 4 of the General Court shall endeavour to ensure the possibility of economic and effective specialisation of judges mostly in highly complex and specific cases in the area of patents. The proposed laws will also reduce the process of verifying first-degree decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute in administrative cases for the recognition of industrial property rights from 3 to 2 degrees. Since the initiation of the appeal procedure in 2008, we do not consider a two-stage administrative trial justified by the existence of as much as 3 degrees of review of decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute, which further slows down the achievement of the final objective, which is the legal certainty of the parties in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9163	Would the representatives of the committee's rapporteur like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first came to the SDP club, a respected representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9164	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that we are pleased that these five laws have brought the debate together because, ultimately, it saves time for this Parliament to work, it's actually about the same institute and the same thing that's being abolished. Namely, all these five laws speak of industrial property rights, so intellectual rights that were protected during the patent registration process by the State Intellectual Property Institute. And the possibility of a possible appeal to a solution by the State Intellectual Property Institute. As Mr. Deputy Minister said so far, there was the possibility that such a solution could be complained about by the interested party, the party in the process, that the appeal council would also like to see what might have been a good intention in one hand but, as it is seen from the practice, had completely complicated the procedure and slowed down the adoption of the power of power. a final solution to whether a legal or natural person has the right to industrial property on a particular patent, stamp or any of these industrial property rights. Right patent i.e. industrial property is extremely important in today's time when some companies, in general, are smaller start-ups actually, to them it's these patents, and innovations are what makes their added value and what makes them more competitive. We think it is very important to speed up this process in order to protect these innovations both on the domestic and on the external market as quickly as possible. We believe in the SDP club that this change is good because there is still a very strong judicial protection of intellectual property rights, i.e. the rights of industrial ownership through a two-stage administrative trial and it is also possible to file a regular civil proceedings case if some of the parties think that their rights are compromised. Since it's actually about one of those same institutes and it's about a small but important change, I wouldn't continue to owe you any longer, I'm just going to say that the SDP club doesn't agree with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9165	Thank you. The next distinguished representative, Sanja Putica, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9166	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister Šlezak and Mrs Kuterovac, Director of the State Intellectual Property Institute, is here before us a package of bill proposals. It should not be spoken of too much because we all see that the common objective of adopting these draft laws is to improve procedures and implement reforms of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, reduce bureaucratic obstacles and generally help everyone in entrepreneurship and economic practice. This package of laws is indeed a relief for the state administration, which, seemingly, will become more efficient and more modern in practice. This measure, proposed by the Government, also brings financial savings. It is said that only this law that we read in the media yesterday about the removal of seals brings savings of about 6 million kunas, and in particular it refers to those people who decide to start businesses and crafts. We all know the problem of inertity and the slowness of bureaucratic apparatus and the inability of "little man" in breaking numerous bureaucratic barriers. It is reducing these proposals of the law, however, and the administrative burden and since the Republic of Croatia has harmonised and in some ways harmonizes its legislation with the acquis, the EU needs to adopt and support these drafts of the law. The first is the proposal for a Law amending the patent law with the final draft law proposed by the Government in an emergency procedure, first and second reading, bill number 35. The Croatian Parliament already discussed the amendments to this law in 2013 and today it is clear that these laws amend the provisions of the patent law with the aim of ensuring legal certainty and establishing an appropriate procedure to check the first-degree decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute in administrative matters for the recognition of the right of both the patent and other industrial property rights in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost the Law on General Administration as a Lex Generalis in all administrative procedures, and the Law on the System of State Administration and the establishment of timelyity and independence in these proceedings. Furthermore, the proposal for this law states that, in the context of these amendments, the questions of termination of the work of the Boards of Appeal and the regulation of the right to appeal to the Court of Justice in Zagreb for the first-degree decisions of the State Intellectual Property Office in administrative cases for the recognition of the right of patent and, indirectly, in all other procedures of recognition of industrial ownership, since the establishment of the Board of Appeal is governed by the Law on patents and, in this respect, the other laws in the field of ownership are called upon in their provisions. By prescribing the jurisdiction of only one Administrative Court and under the proposal of this Law, the Administrative Court in Zagreb of four general administrative courts is seeking to ensure the possibility of economic and effective specialisation of judges mainly in highly specific and complex cases in the area of patents. Therefore, the patent law should also say that in the Republic of Croatia it has been in force since 2004. The second bill that stands in this is called the so-called package of laws is the proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Mark Act with the final bill of law, which the Government also referred to as an emergency procedure, first and second reading, of Law No 37. Since we are seeing and changing the patent law, it is certainly necessary to correct the Mark Act as it stands in the bill of law. As early as 2015, a procedure was launched to amend the Patent Act, which would, among other things, be revised by the Institute of Appeal and the work of the Boards of Appeal. The law says well that the amendment of the patent law is that there will be an end to the work of a secondary authority which decides on complaints in all administrative procedures in the field of recognition of the right of industrial ownership and who and in the procedures of recognition of the trade mark. As the Patent Act and the Mark Act are linked in the section relating to the Institute of Appeals, it is necessary at the same time, in parallel to the adoption of the Patent Act, to amend the provisions of the Mark Act and all in order to bring the Mark Act in line with the newly created situation of termination of the work of the Boards of Appeal and to regulate the amended rules concerning the Institute of Legal Medicine. Otherwise, of course, there would be a legal void. The law also provides for a transitional period from entry into force to application, i.e. by the end of all proceedings under the now applicable Mark Act, so that there should be no major problems and, of course, that is where the legal deadlines were considered. Third proposal of the Law amending the Industrial Design Act with the Final Bill, also sent to the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36. Another one in a series of laws amending to amend the patent law and the Mark Act has also been in force since 2004. In the law, we can read that the above-mentioned Amendment to the patent law comes to an end the work of the second-degree body which decides on complaints in all administrative procedures in the field of recognition of the right of industrial ownership, as well as in the procedures of recognition of industrial design. The law is therefore harmonising with the new situation of termination of the work of the Boards of Appeals as second-degree bodies which decide to appeal to decisions of the State Institute for Intellectual Property and to recognise the right of industrial ownership, thus recognising the rights of industrial design. It may not be noteworthy to discuss the proposal for this law to point out why industrial design is necessary in the first place. Anyone who has actually made such requests to the State Institute for Intellectual Property and in the area of industrial design would, in fact, be more effective at preventing the unauthorized use, production, copying and use by a third and rightholder would have the possibility of commercial exploitation and identification of products on targeted markets that he requested. In this sense, here it is, and it is one of the expedient circumstances for people who deal with industrial design. The fourth proposal for a law is therefore the Proposal for a Law amending the designations of geographical origin and the designations of origin of the product with the Final Proposal of the Law. It also seems to me that this bill is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia because we know that people, especially in rural areas, are dared by various circumstances, the lack of jobs, the indevelopment of their areas, the opening of their own crafts, the production of indigenous products that should be seen, however, as an incentive to remain and live in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia, but also as a particular feature of the Republic of Croatia as an extremely attractive tourist product, in one expansion of cheap ones, I would say, which I can especially know from the end of Dubrovnik of the cheap souvenirs that we import from the Eastern market. Such products that our people produce in rural areas are particularly important and need to be further subsidized and protected. The harmonisation of the law with previous laws is also here, which is the case, which also abolishs the work of the Board of Appeal as a secondary body and achieves the harmonisation of the law and shortens the procedure for checking the first-degree body and thus costs in administrative procedures. And it should also be stressed that even for the implementation of this bill, which is now in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament, new funds need not be allocated from the Republic of Croatia's budget. And the 5th draft law is the one on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Half-Leading Products, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the proposal for this law, it is of course the originality of the topography of semi-conductive products, i.e. the re-protection of intellectual property. Innovation in semi-manufacturing products requires significant investment and is therefore a clear initiative by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect them to a greater extent. Protection in this topography is both time and content limited. So these are all bill proposals and the necessary laws for the higher introductory reasons, primarily better quality business climate, investment and facilitate business in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9167	Since there are no more reports for the hearing, I am concluding this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. With this, we have exhausted today's ten points scheduled for discussion. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 A proposal for a law on alternative consumer dispute resolution. The session was interrupted in 15.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9168	Then the final draft law amending the patent law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Legislative Committee has proposed the adoption of the following conclusion. On the proposal of the Law amending the patent law with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The 35th debate will be held in the first reading. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of the proposed conclusion. Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports esteemed Hrvoje Šlezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9169	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia remains in the position of the bill and, in fact, the whole package of laws goes further through emergency procedures. I would only briefly explain why we insist on this attitude. The adoption of a whole package of these laws by emergency procedure is necessary in order to bring the law in line with the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia and, above all, with the General Administrative Procedure Act as a lex generalis in all administrative procedures, and with the State Administration System Act. That harmonisation is linked to the prevention of possible procedures for establishing the constitutionality of the authorisation of the Board of Appeal in the area of industrial property rights for the handling and decision-making of cases for which it is possible to prevent significant financial consequences related to the open possibility of such proceedings in terms of compensation for damages. As regards the question of the Committee on Legislatives on the constitutionality of a solution regarding the initiation and conduct of proceedings before the Administrative Court in Zagreb, it is pointed out that this is a solution in accordance with the Law on Administrative Disputes, which in its Article 13 provides for the possibility that the local jurisdiction of the Administrative Court should be prescribed differently. It is because of this open opportunity that the applicant considers that given the relatively low annual inflow of new cases in the existing appeal procedures which could arise in the administrative dispute as a new legal remedy, it would not be meaningful or economical to develop and maintain the expertise of judges in five different areas of industrial ownership between them over four administrative courts. This relates in particular to the necessary significant investments in the training and specialisation of judges in highly complex and specific cases in the area of patents that are more economical in one Administrative Court. It is pointed out that by prescribing the jurisdiction of only the Administrative Court in Zagreb, it has again tried to meet the requirements of the representatives of the rightholders and employers who participated in the expert working group for the adoption of these laws, which as an important prerequisite for the functioning of the system, given the complexity of these administrative cases, particularly in the area of patents, highlighted the education and specialized training of judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9170	Thank you very much. I'll put you to the vote. Here's my guest. Here is the chairman of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9171	That's right. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, we remain with the proposal that this and the next four laws go into regular procedure. So, we're opposed to emergency procedures. With these laws we abolish the Constitution guaranteed the right to appeal. So that should be considered in at least two readings. This law encroachs on laws that regulate judicial matter, so we regulate local jurisdiction for courts that we cannot regulate these laws and therefore remain on the proposal that the laws go into the regular procedure that can be implemented very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-05-0.u9172	Thank you very much. So we have a proposal for legislation, a committee on legislation and a conclusion. Please, I can read it again. Therefore, the proposal for a law amending the patent law with the final proposal for a law will be held in the first reading. Please, who's in favour of that conclusion? What's the score? 124 votes for and 1 abstention, nothing against. I therefore find that most votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the Legislative Committee. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats and get started. Here I have my hands up, obviously we'll have some requests for a break. First of all, the Honorable representative of Sladolev, come in.
