ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP club, I am looking for a 15-minute break in order for the club to express its views on the statements and all the circumstances that have appeared in public around Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic's culture minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u183	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u184	On behalf of the HNS Club on the same subject regarding the latest information on the Minister of Culture we are looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u185	Thank you. On behalf of the Most, the Most Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u186	We're also on behalf of the MOST club looking for a brief break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u187	Anyone else? There's a reverse plate. On behalf of HSP AS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u188	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u189	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HRID Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u190	On behalf of the HRID Club also at the same point please pause.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u191	Comrade Horvath, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u192	So I'm looking for the same reason on behalf of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u193	On behalf of the SDSS club. On behalf of the Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u194	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, too, on the matter of a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u195	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, too, Jasen Mesic, right? And then we'd be done with it. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but okay. Then we'll have a colleague from HSLS and a national minority. Okay, thank you. But please raise your hands in time for the second time. So now we're 9.35 at 9.45 I'll see you. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first registered on behalf of the SDP club will also speak for the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u197	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we confirmed the government here, I spoke on behalf of the SDP club and warned the Prime Minister on purpose not to appoint Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic in the government. We presented the reasons then and said that because of this man, the government could unwarrantedly and needlessly receive the epithet of Prostian. The Prime Minister wouldn't listen to me, unfortunately. He also said yesterday that Mr. Hasanbegovic is a convinced anti-fascist. I'm using this stands, this payphone, this moment to ask the Prime Minister if the manager's clothes were so dressed by the convinced anti-fascists? And what he would have done as one of the managers of Lucius if his office in that Jewish capital company had come from someone with a Ustasha hat. Would you claim him to be an anti-fascist? There are now versions that it's not the Ustasha cap but that it's the HOS cap. Once again, the COS commander Marko Skejo has denied it, but the hat is just a symbol of identity. It doesn't matter what kind of hat it was, it doesn't matter what it was under that hat. And what's under that hat is much worse than a hat. Mr Hasanbegovic was an associate of a list called "Independent State of Croatia". Here's the front page. This is the Croatian Liberation Movement. He edited Srecko Pseničnik, brother-in-law Ante Pavelic, president of the HOP party founded by Ante Pavelic. HOP member, at least after writing that list, was Minister Hasanbegovic. And it's documented in that journal. In that note, Mr Hasanbegovic also wrote. Here's what he wrote, in the article "We Don't Forget" he writes about the honorable symbols and names of Ustasha heroes whose martyrs' and shechi bones are now turned over in a country of misery and shame. It is because of these true heroes of martyrs and Shehid who laid their lives on the altar of homelands from the Bleibur plains to Foca and Fazlagic towers that it is the duty of all of us respectors and followers, meaning the Ustasha follower, to show the way out of this dark tunnel to a truly free and united homeland from Mura, Drava and Drina to the Adriatic Sea. NDH recovery. It is the programme of the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Croatia. We're not the only ones who warn. There's been a warning to the government, a letter from the Simon Wiesenthal Centre, the famous war criminal hunter's centre. He wrote Ephraim Zuroff, he warned directly, those are his words, get out of the government of that fascist. Don't be ashamed of yourself in front of Europe. There was also Pascal Bruckner a witness friend of Croatia. He stood up for Croatia in recognition. It was he who claimed in the world, in France, that we were fighting a righteous and liberating war. And this Pascal Bruckner warns us to get that man out of the government, shame on you. Prime Minister, I warned you about confirming your government. Now I'm warning you from this booth again. Either you replace Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic or you put that Ustasha cap on your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u198	On behalf of the HNS club, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u199	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, so we have recently had a debate on the government, on the government's proposal, during that debate the entire opposition warned, on the well-intentioned basis of the knowledge we had about the views of the Minister of Culture, on its secular views that it was not good for the government to enter a person of such a political profile. But most of them decided otherwise, most of them seem to be behind the views of such a proposed culture minister, behind the world view, above all, such a culture minister, and that is not good for Croatia. It is the opinion of the HNS that this is now after a whole series of events that followed after Mr Hasanbegovic became minister, that it is the torture of Croatia, that it is the disgrace of Croatia in front of the entire civilized world. However, the same minister, after becoming a member of the government on some flimsy feet, may at least be characterized as vengeful to all those in this society who want a democratic procedure, who want transparency, who want a cultural environment, a polite environment, replaces a commission that has decided on co-financing or which has proposed co-financing of alternative media. The warnings came again on several sides after that, the entire cultural public organised, a petition by cultural workers was launched means those whom the minister should manage for his shift, the number is now climbing several thousand people who are engaged in the activity. Who will this minister manage if he is not supported by people, if at least most people do not support him within the vault in which he must act? However, the minister's support was given here we see yesterday and the prime minister. The prime minister believes Mr. Hasanbegovic is an anti-fascist. Indeed, we at the HNS do not know the basis of what such an attitude has, which is also the prime minister especially now, today, yesterday evening after we are in the knowledge of the facts that Mr Hasanbegovic and his word and his appearance in certain places is an absolute part of that so-called. the philoust crew that exists, which seems obviously still very powerful within the Republic of Croatia. So we could look at yesterday's entire album of philoustic photography. Let's let it go now if it's about whether on those hats it's a letter in or if it's another feature, but the context of all of it is definitely philoustian. And perhaps the photographs could have been mounted, but what my colleague said, colleague Stazic, what remains as a word, as something signed by the culture minister is definitely not mounted and proves that we were right when we warned that the political profile of the culture minister was scandalous for Croatia. That's why there's nothing to say on this subject anymore. What can be expected is for Mr Hasanbegovic to stand down alone, that would be the cleanest and the best. Another situation if it does not do so, the prime minister or the prime minister will change it, and if it does not remove it, then it will certainly be the subject of his shift at the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u200	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Most, the honourable representative, Maro Kristic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u201	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs allow us, too, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, to take note of this topic. So, on behalf of the MOST, we would like to stress that any form of totalitarian regime is not supported, nor are the ideological divisions currently being imposed. We want to deal with problems burdening ordinary citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the statement by some former ministers and current parliamentary representatives that there are moments in every man's life that he is not proud of can't be enough. We expect Minister Hasanbegovic to publicly show us what his position today is about the character of the Ustasha regime. In the past, there were also ministers, MPs and presidents of the state who connected with all forms of totalitarianism from constitution to communism, so they continued to act on their functions after the public fence. I also suggest Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that for the next week you call a plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with one item of the agenda that will last 7 days and called ideological division and that we finally put that point behind us and start dealing with the real problems of Croatian society, which are the economic problems and financial consolidation of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u202	Thank you very much. I would thank you for this proposal and if I believed that a week of discussion here would result in us finally stopping going back 70 years to the past instead of solving the burning problems of today and our children and our grandchildren I would accept it, but unfortunately there is not much chance of it. But the next word came out on behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Ivan Tepeš. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, next time you throw me, I'll do what your colleague Pedja Grbin advised you to do. I'm just telling you what I'm gonna do. ... I know very well what I'm talking about and you know what I'm talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, colleague Tepeš.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u203	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament, and here we have witnessed again, of course, that return to the past because today's opposition cannot discuss the economy because it has destroyed it for the past four years, so it's a slippery terrain for them. As far as the minister's testimony is concerned, it was obvious that they were characteristics of the 9th Battle of the Hos. Those aren't criminal traits for me. I wouldn't be the vice president of the Croatian Parliament today if these boys hadn't given their lives and body parts, so among other things, here is Mr Matic, who is sitting here also one of the defenders and I, from my position, bow to everyone. Because today I would not be vice president of the Parliament but would either be two metres underground or in immigration and certainly not be a representative of the Serbian congregation. And when we talk about the features then these are the features that Minister Hasanbegovic himself said. Today 2016, Minister Hasanbegovic, meanwhile, has mastered and doctored, we know who was in the commission and Dr. Ivo Goldstein, I am deeply convinced that none of his scientific work nor his master's work, nor his doctorate that his attitudes are contrary and that they conflict with what historical science and historiography require. I know that every word is true in history and every one of you who has done scientific work in historical science then knows that you are very much minding what you are going to do in any scientific paper. So is current Culture Minister Hasanbegovic. I'd ask the question where is the choice, so who posted that picture, not this source he's calling for, but where it's going to come out tomorrow, it's News Weekly. A weekly financed by Croatian taxpayers, who in a very ugly way had thrown out the mockery of the Croatian anthem. I didn't see, nor did Mr. Stazić, nor the SDP club, at that time you were in power to fence yourself from it, to condemn it and it was an eclectic violation of the Croatian Constitution. Also when the MiG of the Croatian Army fell, it was the cover of "They both fell". So what Novosti weekly does is it enters into the framework of the violation of the Croatian Constitution because the Constitution defines exactly what the Croatian anthem is and how it should be treated. Furthermore, the vice-president of the Serbian National Council was on me on a show in Banja Luka last Friday, on the question of the leader of my position regarding Vukic and Nikolic in the context of whether the president should have accepted him, I did not want to answer on behalf of the president, but I said my position was that Vukic and Nikolic, I see lately, had changed attitudes but that I perceived them as politicians who had been lurking around Croatia in the 1990s and were causing war conflicts that apparently existed today on YouTube. The vice president of the Serbian People's Council said that, that there were such bad things, but if we think about it like that today, you're going to be left with big divisions that we're not going anywhere else. So that video exists on Youtube that I'm not quoting right now, but you can see exactly the text. And that we should see that they reformed, that they are something else today, and that according to that, I should perceive Mr. Vukic and Nikolic. And probably we as well as the Croatian state. Well, I don't know now whether you agree with Mr. Milosevic's position or not, and I don't know what was going to happen to this hack at Minister Hasanbegovic's. If you want to resign, then I don't understand how you don't want to ask for at least a colleague's resignation in Serbia or at least not to contact them. So they're double standards, let me, they're double standards, so we have the Metropolitan Porphyri so that he himself admitted to singing Chetnik songs. Metropolis is in Zagreb. So I didn't hear from you that you asked him to come inside the Serbian Orthodox Church to resign. So double standards for some people are something that goes through their fingers, and others don't. So I'm not for anyone to see through their fingers. What I have already repeated several times, I will repeat and now I am against every form of totalitarian regime and fascism and Nazism and communism. And everything that celebrates those regimes for me is foreign and I strongly condemn. But I also ask that in Croatian society, there are one criteria, not double standards, and something to be excavated and not on the other. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u204	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives HRID, distinguished representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The state is as serious as it holds to facts and how rationally it is to receive, analyze and draw a good conclusion from them. And I, like yesterday when I spoke, are interested in the facts and the Lozancic case, and today we can talk about the Hasanbegovic case. Realizing that the facts are hard to pass in a deeply divided state where, I'm free to say, there's only black and white. If you don't want to accept, you almost don't have a choice. So he wonders if there is anything between these two parallel worlds that feed on each other, complement each other and survive thanks to one another. One of the constants of thinking in this country is to make a verdict and not to listen. We saw that first of all in our political parties. And we're rationally prepared to take one side without arguments, without a dialogue that might make someone's situation simpler, but I'm not sure I'm more comfortable with human beings. I don't want to defend anyone, judge anyone even less, but many topics today would have been avoided if only we had followed the decision made by the Croatian Parliament, from the declaration, about the totalitarian communist regime and their victims to the Antifascism Declaration. Personally, I consider antifascism not an ideological but a set of values that no one has the right to monopolize. As no one has the right to monopolize patriotism or honesty. What about those who are considered both patriots and honest? Who do they belong to? So in this case, the fact is that antifascism has gathered both the socialists and the communists and the democracies and the liberals. Today, in Western Europe, it becomes an ideological basis for opposing everything we think is evil, racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism. A few comments on what I heard during the morning. I don't accept that this government is philistine. This government really advocates conservative values that, unfortunately, contain a lot of elements of retro traditionalism, the reminisce of our past today absolutely unnecessary and the attempt to prevent the level of human rights and freedoms achieved. I don't think this country, that there's a fascillation in this country. Radicalization yes, but she didn't go with this government. We witnessed radicalization during last government, on the one hand trying to make so-called The political guerrilla has been replaced by the current power, and on the other hand by the lack of the courage of the current government to oppose any form of radicalism and, on the other hand, to encourage this radicalism. Because in avoiding dialogue people accept ideologies, accept radicalism, fear knowledge, fear competent people who are able to keep our step with the world in which we have long since integrated. What I expect from our minister is a clear answer about fascism, whether it considers fascism to be a set of values I spoke of or an ideology that unfortunately had its own black side and history of Croatia. Whether antifascism is considered a valuable system which is indeed in the preamble of the Constitution and which, if I am not mistaken by the words of the creators of the Constitution, I wrote by the late President Franjo Tudjman. Because the damage has to be fixed, the damage has been done and the message of the prime minister who says my minister is an anti-fascist unless we hear it loud and clear from the minister himself. The minister has the right not to answer this and that's the answer and that's the answer. But then he must know that his right cannot be above the value and responsibility and obligations he has assumed. In political life, the responsibility and obligations you take are beyond your rights. And I repeat, as yesterday, I am interested in facts, and I am interested in the minister's clear attitude about what he was saying and what he wrote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u206	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS club, the next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u207	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't go out for this pay phone because of the hat, but because of what's under the hat. Times were such that people wore different hats like someone said yesterday or today. There was a nightmare and chaos in which many did not cope and did not recognize what the cap could mean and what the cap meant. The problem is, it's under the hat. And whether what's under the hat is persistently, consistently being represented. That's the question. To whom can Jasenovac be a place that the Croatian Parliament should not commemorate? To whom can a convicted war criminal from World War II and a member of Nazi formations be a person to be glorified? To whom might antifascism be a floscule? It could be someone who wore a hat like this in a photo, and it could be someone who's completely hatless and hairless. But for me, it's a question of what values Mr. President is telling you because of what you're saying, let's get out of something that's not going to do us any good. And who has spread it well in the last three or four years, and why is it that if he was upset about the needs of the election, he didn't say enough when the government was formed? Why is he doing this today? So when you walk down the street to experience them spit on you like they'll probably spit on me like I'm probably gonna get spit on by someone for this speech. To greet you with "for a home ready" in my city where the vice president of the parliament was and participated among thousands of those who shouted "for a home ready" and told people to go to Serbia who had less to do with Serbia than he did. Do we want a country like that? Do we want that kind of company? We want to talk about community and dig divisions, spread fear and create an atmosphere of violence? Is this the Croatian Democratic Union? Is it a party that has been holding on to people's relations with a severe torment, when they were in the worst possible way disrupted? And now we're on the verge of not just sending verbal bullets towards each other, now we're on the verge of fighting. It's just a question of who's gonna do it first. You know for me, I hate to say this because it's saying that Pupovac is a Serb from Croatia it's like saying that gold is the most precious material, so nonsensus. But for me, antifascism is the foundation of the identity of the people I belong to. And if in modern Croatian history anything from the Serbs to Croatia is given in a valuable and political sense is a day of anti-fascism. And it is my duty to the world to defend it before those Serbs who deny it and those Croats who deny it as the fundamental value of the best relationships that can be amongst the people, the best values that can be in the state and the best values that can be between the states. If we're going to think of it as a flossule, if we're going to take Jasenovac, then let the Parliament shut down. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much, you have exceeded your time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u208	Thank you. The next word will be taken on behalf of the Laburista Club, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u209	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that Mr Hasanbegovic should not have become a minister, but the first moves have shown that this man is not in that position I am speaking of the relationship to the Committee for Non-profit Media, and the first moves have shown not only the ideological background of Mr Hasanbegovic but also what is to be followed, and this is a vengeful campaign towards those who think differently and otherwise everything in the spirit of Mr Karamark's anti-communist manifesto. They staged protests by culturalists, PEN club, Association of Writers, individual actors, a large group of actors and not to mention but they did, or at least I heard of a set of support, a letter of support from 77 historians who supported Mr. Hasanbegovic. However, whether historians will be able to support you further Mr. Hasanbegovic after learning, not hats, the hat is at least not something special to me, but whether he will be able to support the man who wrote for the pro-Ustava note and how he wrote for the pro-Ustava note "The Independent State of Croatia". Among other things, he said there that NDH's collapse is one of the biggest mistakes, a tragedy in the history of the Croatian people. Is NDH really one of the biggest mistakes in the history of the Croatian people? I just can't believe it! Many say that this is what Serbs do, the Serbian "News", which is not the Serbian "News", but it is the Serbian National Council in Croatia, by the way, I believe that few people read the news, but these are one of the best weeks not only in Croatia but in the whole area of this region. You can agree with that or disagree and I won't throw it to you when you praise your messages. I think this is just one correct good note. But in any case, what's important is that the international public has stood up. Efraim Zuroff said yes, he warned our government why he was taking over the Stigm of Ustasha. I don't really think this government is Ustasha, but why is it taking over that Ustasha stigma, what does it need? Why is it standing between Minister Hasanbegovic? Someone will say Jews are sensitive, so of course they are sensitive after all but imagine Serbs can also be sensitive in Croatia to Mr Hasanbegovic. And they have that right. So let's remember that the greatest victims during World War II were just Serbs in these areas, not Jews, and we're always talking about something, we're going around a little bit. That truth doesn't suit us. Havel who certainly wasn't a communist but was an anti-fascist said a lot of texts should live in the truth. Living in the truth is a very demanding motto, but it's the only time we can figure out what antifascism is. Is antifascism a floscule? We can talk about antifascism. I agree that many have... And they say they tie him to communism, to crimes, to that crossroad, and that's all understood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that could be the point of dissent. But antifascism is, I am talking about concrete conditions in the former Yugoslavia, that is, Croatia, but it is certain that antifascism is the civil value of modern Europe. And if we don't figure it out, we haven't really figured anything out. For me, it is not a problem that Mr. Hasanbegovic thinks of anti-fascism, it is a problem for me that Mr. Hasanbegovic thinks of fascism. I'd like to hear what he thinks of fascism, and we've heard what he thinks of fascism. Now, why does the Croatian government need all this? Why is the Croatian government behind this man? Why does Mr. Oreshkovic say he thought he was an anti-fascist? Based on what? To my mother, Hasanbegovic told me my mother I'm an anti-fascist and he believes so that's how it is. I think that some other standards should be taken into account, and in any case, that's the man who has to leave, simply because of the spiritual hygiene of this society. I will only remind at the end of Mr Hasanbegovic's words, quite so despisedly said, when he abolished the non-profit media, the Commission for Non-profit Media, his right, okay. So let a thousand flowers bloom. Yes, let the thousands of flowers bloom, but for the fascist weeds of the Hasanbegovic type there is no room.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u210	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will begin this exposure on behalf of the HDZ Club to what we have always said and what we have pointed out and while we were opposition and now that we want to turn towards progress and the future, that we want to work on the well-being of Croatian citizens who have political, ideological views. And that's what we want because we're against all totalitarianism, because we're against fascism, because we're against Communism and all the expressions that suppress human rights, right of speech, freedom of opinion, freedom of expression. It's the basis on which our party was founded and that's what we'll stick to. We are against all totalitarianisms because we respect the same and all victims of all totalitarianisms, which we care about giving pitet to all who, on behalf of or against some ideology, have been punished in court. That's not what we're making a difference. That is why we have also resisted the abolition of the patronage of the Croatian Assembly at Bleiburg. And we'll keep doing that. We'll stick to the same criteria. The relation of historical crimes against human rights as it was a naked island that is being relativized today will be just as condemned as fascist crimes. The crimes of the communist dictatorship will never be brought under anti-fascism because they are different things. We will stick to the same principles, and if something is published in some media, then we will also watch the denials that Minister Hasanbegovic directed yesterday. Di questioned authenticity, where he said it was not about any Ustasha features but about the features of a unit integrated into the Croatian army whose monument to which we met was laid by Mayor Baldasar Split. Many officials who were also in this Croatian Assembly, so some officials who today are respected presidents of some of our neighbouring countries who took pictures with gambling today look very calmly at themselves in the mirror. So here we colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament have not all stood up when in Serbia the Chetnik movement is relatively relative and is called anti-fascist. It's not something we'll support. We're looking for the same principles, the same arches. If a historian presented the results of his research, we choose to call the thematic session of the committee to be discussed by fellow historians, let them face historical arguments. Let's not take that down to the headlines. Everyone has the right to write practically what they want in Croatia, and this is what the Republic of Croatia is funding from its budget. It's so easy to do business. There is information that the editors who run the newspaper today could be caught in similar situations in their young days that they would likely not be proud of today. There is also thinking in a large part of the Croatian public that this sharpening in ideologically opposing attitudes did not begin yesterday and that it cannot be expected if a beautiful story in the paper comes out of our haubica that it will be seen by certain political parties or people and that it will not develop polemics. Because it's not what it is, and it doesn't lead us to what our first thought is and which I said first without going to the future against all totalitarianism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u212	Time. Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HSLS Club, the Honorable Representative of Milivos Spika, HSLS, BUZ will speak in combination.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it somehow seems to me that these or similar discussions have become a rule, so some plenary session on an ideological topic wouldn't exactly produce some result, but the amendment of the Rules of Procedure I believe it would. I don't think it's clear to me that part of my colleagues here have yet to hear from them or they haven't realized that the election was three months ago. Somehow, the assembly doesn't seem to be a place for pre-election speeches, or I'm not well informed, so some elections are expected in a month, two days. Someone here says, it seems to me that he was the head of the SDP who once said that entering an opposition to position... if this is all you can do and you know, and what you've been showing for several weeks is weak, weak. I thought you knew that far better, but returning to these topics from day to day clearly shows what is the level of political but also social and economic understanding of the moment Croatia is in. If we have a factual situation and we have that all of us here 151 as well as all 20 ministers have sworn an oath which includes, among other things, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then every question about whether or not it is necessary to declare whether or not it supports the allegations of anti-fascism is pointless. By oath, we were all clearly manifested here on this matter. We're not going to have to allow ourselves to discuss in this place maybe even Prince Harry who's seen himself under some strange signs. Would you like to talk about your colleague Stank Grcic tomorrow? Are we going to talk about Mr. Stephen Mesic, by any chance? Are we going to talk about a colleague named Peggy Grbino? Are we going to talk about anyone here...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u214	Comrade Maras, please stop throwing. You do it all the time. I will take the advice of your member of Peja Grbin, a respected legal expert, to warn you in such cases. ... All right, I'm giving you a warning, Mr. Maras. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u215	Thank you very much. Somehow as a person who was first a member of this honorable House I thought we'd be dealing with a lot more here, in fact exclusively with economic and social issues. Turns out that our esteemed opposition here isn't interested at all. If you're going to leave, it's very easy for you to get to the point where we're going to cancel some dates. Because there were also opportunities when some called for certain dates, and, dear God, the year is 365 days and many years behind us, and then some events are connected and individuals are called for various things. However, it will certainly not happen that some events in history will allow us to live in that past or keep coming back hoping that any of our citizens will benefit. I've already told you several times that no one will find a job from these discussions, no one will stop being blocked. And those 100,000 people who moved out during the term of office won't return to Croatia or think about it. It is interesting that none of you opened at the beginning of the meeting of the topic why and how someone donated 300m euros to the Zagreb airport concessionaire. Or how we're going to solve some of the burning problems that bother the citizens of our beautiful. But these topics whether Minister Hasanbegovic should be or not, they seem to be your favorite. Don't make this hell for us, make this hell for yourself and for the citizens I believe to be the end of patience. I hope that we will urgently refer to the procedure to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and finally end this abuse of this break and distract attention from important topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u216	Thank you very much. And the last to speak on behalf of the National Minority Club, the distinguished representative of Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u217	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me show in a few thoughts the attitude of national minorities. When wars are being prepared, or when big wars are at war, then little ones settle down, shut up, watch out. The kids say nice sensitive sensors that then listen to what's going on in society. Last May 14th, the National Minorities Club in Pula adopted a Declaration of Insufferableness and Ethnocentrism in Croatia in which we warned about the phenomena that were happening and that were happening. This is how the declaration came across, in some circles for a rather negative attitude, but as time goes on, it turns out that we were right. I would just read a statement by the attorney general regarding the declaration that she said expressed her understanding and solidarity with the signatories of the declaration concerned by the frequent phenomena that violate values such as co-existence, tolerance, multiculturalism and respect for others and different ones, which she herself pointed out in her reports and statements. That's what she said, we wrote that declaration, look on the Internet. The other thing I'd like to warn you about is the values, quite often mentioned here. I think we are losing sight of ourselves, who are here and who are speaking on behalf of the people, on behalf of the citizens, that Croatian citizens were on the side of the winners in the mid-20th century, that they participated in a brilliant victory against the totalitarian fascist regime and that they settled with the advanced forces of the world. We are losing sight and that at the end of the 19th century, not on the 19th century, but on the 20th century, we have again contributed to the European frameworks as winners of the collapse of the communist totalitarian regime. And these are the values that we need to cultivate, that need to lead us into our future, and these are the values that we need to raise our generations on. What are we doing? We are dealing with the past, we are trying to revise everything that Croatian citizens have won in these two great victories brought to Croatia. Third thing. I think it's important sometimes to listen to what others say about us. I think it's important that we respect other people's opinions not only that we have a picture of ourselves. A few days ago, the media adopted the opinion of the Simon Vicental Centre, which was clearly determined according to our current culture minister. I wouldn't add anything here, I wouldn't take anything away, I'd just warn again what I said a little while ago, and sometimes you have to listen to someone who's on the sidelines and not make a picture of us the way we think it is. And I would like to say one more thing and ask my colleagues on both the left and right, it is not good, it is not good if we are trying to bind the exercise of minority rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia to the exercise of the rights of Croatian people in other neighbouring or non-neighboring countries. There are offices that deal with this, there is a Government of the Republic of Croatia that appoints the heads of these offices and we cannot be slaves to such views and such thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u218	Thank you very much. Let us not throw, but let us move a little further on to the next item of the agenda, that is, the first item of the agenda. Let's not throw it away, but let's move a little further on to the next item of the agenda, or the first item of the agenda today, which is - The Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2014 The Reporter is the Financial Agency based on Article 21. The Financial Agency Act. You've received the material into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go. President of the Financial Agency's Office, Ms. Angelka Bunetta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2143	... and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Before you is the Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency in 2014. Since the standard is not prescribed, the report is structured in terms of attitudes and rules of good practice and constructive proposals by parliamentary representatives from the previous Parliament's meetings. Allow me to highlight the most significant financial and business specifics. In 2014, it was extremely labour intensive in both the areas of improvement of internal processes and the jobs we worked for our clients in a commercial sense and the basis of public authority. We have achieved a total revenue of 846.1 million kuna, expressed financially, and this is a slight increase of 3% compared to 2013. The expenditure incurred amounted to HRK 797.8 million and compared to 2013. 7% are higher. We made a gross profit of 48.2 million kuna, which is 37% less than 2013. Incomes include our regular income from financial, electronic services, state service, information and communication services, and other revenues. It is noted that from the traditional business segment we still make about 45% of total business revenues. I mean under pay traffic, national clinical system, small medium-sized entrepreneurship, and this trend is becoming increasingly high-quality we are substituting revenues from electronic business, card business and archiving businesses. Also, during 2014, we significantly reduced income from state institutions due to changes in legal regulation and the introduction of a JOPD pattern of circus 38 million kuna. Therefore, it is also understood from the structure of income per customer segments that a clearly visible trend in revenue from the business of the agency with the state, while income from electronic services and business with natural persons is growing and income from business with legal persons is stagnating. Direct contact with our clients is made through a business network that ensures national coverage through four regional centres, 18 branches, 143 offices, 13 offices and those in total income of the FINA participate with 57%. As already stated by the Agency's expenditures in 2014 was 7% higher than in 2013 which was the biggest impact of the increase in financial and extraordinary expenditures by 66% compared to 2013 which is, in nature, a value of harmonisation of customer demand by the majority of state administration bodies, and in accordance with international accounting standards. In the structure of the expenditure incurred in 2014 the general cost of staff was 43%, material costs 24, depreciation costs 10%, other operating costs 9%, and financial extraordinary 13%. The investments in 2014 amounted to a total of 45.3 million kuna and decreased by 33% compared to 2013 and in the majority of the investment are related to IT equipment and participate somewhere with 53% in total investments. In business terms 2014, he marked work on improving internal processes in the FINA itself as well as on the jobs we do for our clients. I would single out the following, in order to bring our organisation in line with the strategic business objectives presented in the strategic document entitled "Innovation Strategy of the Financial Agency for the period 2014-2017." In 2014 we changed the organisational structure of FINA in order to improve efficiency and greater flexibility in order to respond more effectively to the requirements of the owner and market. In cooperation with our social partner, we have defined the provisions of a new collective agreement that came into force with 1 June 2014 and that social agreement revised the material rights of our workers. At the level of the year, there is a reduction of 11.5 million kuna. And we revised the pay system that was redefined in a way that one part of the pay connected to the regional success of the branch, and one part to the individual success of the workers. The intensity was to ensure that such a system was more objectively rewarded by the members of the agency, i.e. its workers, according to their participation in the realisation of business activities and ultimately in the realisation of the performance of the business. In parallel with regular business and the implementation of activities aimed at improving internal processes, the agencies continued to develop new and already started projects among which I would single out only some. The primary implementation of the central account of salaries and human resources management in the public sector. We have invested in the success of this project in exceptional human, technical, financial and organisational conditions, all in order for the project to succeed. Today, from this perspective, I can say that the Republic of Croatia can be extremely proud that such a complex project has managed to implement in record time with its own intelligence and has settled into rare countries, as well as multinational companies that have succeeded in this. Of course, this is a project that has a lot to work on, primarily on the ensuing. the reporting system, but the backbone has been successfully implemented, and the following data are given in this regard. In the beginning of 2014, 473 institutions were covered, and at the end of 2014, in the COP's system, they accounted for a salary of 2179 institutions for almost 248 thousand employees. Since COP is one of the main elements of public administration reform and only for illustration will I list several elements to get the impression of how complex this project is and which, of course, without the support of the state administration body, could not succeed. A web application has been created to ensure that users, hence state administration bodies, access through digital certificates, guaranteeing a high level of security of the system. Currently, 3372 different places are available in the application, jobs. 31 regulations have been adopted, i.e. collective agreements, legal, sublegal acts relating to all or only certain groups of institutions and affecting, of course, the billing of salaries. There were about 300 different supplements in there. What am I thinking? These are, for example, specific working conditions, addition to calling, or addition to education and such. I would also point out an e-Citizen project that enables citizens to communicate online with the public sector. The project, which was awarded in Mexico as the best project in the communication of citizens with the public sector in the world of FINA, entrusted with the establishment and operational management of the national identification and authentication system as a unique place of verification of electronic identity for access to e-services which we have successfully done. The system is very dynamic and has been continuously introduced by new service providers for citizens, new credential issuers here recently two banks have entered as well as citizens' end-users. Since 2011. FINA also took over the activities of forced collection in the accounts of business entities and citizens opened in banks in the Republic of Croatia, and FINA has become a unique place for the reception, processing and conduct of banks in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we also need to follow the legislative changes, so in 2014 one major amendment to the Implementing Law was adopted, which required a very large adjustment of the system. One of the most significant ones I would point out is the change that allows out-of-court payments or direct payments in the FINA on the basis of a verdict or other executive decision, and it is also possible for workers to directly apply in the FINA to the employer's burden in the event of unpaid pay and only on the basis of the account of unpaid wages. The Committee on Finance asked me a question about the number of blocked business entities and citizens at the end of 2014 as well as the total claims of FINA, so I take the opportunity to answer these questions. Due to the unexecuted payment grounds on 31.12.2014, 47,870 business entities were blocked, and the total value of the unexecuted payment bases was HRK 29.6 billion. Compared to the situation one year earlier in 2013, it is a reduction of 14 230 business entities and a reduction of the unexecuted payment grounds of 3.9 billion kuna. If we compare this trend to 2015 we will continue to say about business entities in number and in demand it is in a downward trend. As far as citizens are concerned, unfortunately, the situation is not the case. Due to unexecuted payment grounds from 31.12.2014, there were 322 498 citizens in the blockade and their debt amounted to HRK 31.06 billion. Compared to 2013, the word is on an increase of almost 7% nominally 22,703 citizens and an increase in total debt by nearly 8 billion kuna. If we look at 2015, the number of citizens has decreased but their total debt has increased nominally and is mainly citizens in long-term blockades. As regards the answer to the question concerning FIN's claims from customers, the total outstanding claims of FIN registered on 31.12.2014 amounted to 325.7 million kuna, and of which the claims amounted to 143.6 million kuna and to a maximum extent about 85% relate to claims from the body of the state administration. What have we done to collect these claims? In accordance with the Financial Business Act and pre-demand agreements, according to the internal documents, all the laws allowed, which means phone calls, agreements, alternative payment options, we've spent 647 compensations, 1400 commissions of agninations, we've sent over 44 thousand notices to customers, we've launched 1509 forced payment procedures for our claims. Since the Republic of Croatia is the founder of FINA, we have shown special co-operation in agreeing the terms of the payment of claims from its institutions, so let's say we proposed, we were there for very proactive meetings, coordination and, let's say, one big debt agreement was signed in 2010-2011, amounting to 162 million kuna. From the short term I will say, he has moved to a long-term period where the payment deadline until 31.12.2016 is in line with that agreement on excessive deficit measures. The FINAs are also entrusted with the work of the pre-bank settlement procedure and would only say a few words about it. For an illustration in 2012 when the FINA job started, 37 settlement councils were working on these jobs and in late 2014, they were active in 19. In total, 7574 cases were received, i.e. entrepreneurs handed over these items with a total amount of declared commitments of EUR 67.8 billion and employed 60 148 workers. Out of this, 6963 items were solved on 31.12.2014, which makes up almost 92% of all items received, and these 611 items passed over in the following year so the work is done. Of the total cases solved in 1765, it was settled with a positive outcome, which means that a restructuring plan was accepted or a pre-profit settlement was concluded although by a total number it was not much, it was only 23% necessary to point out that it was working on debtors to which nearly half of all reported liabilities were 43% and that they employ 26,440 workers almost 45% of all. In 5198 cases, the procedure was suspended or the proposal was rejected or, as a rule, ended in bankruptcy. In particular, 3678 went bankrupt. By 31.12.2014, the total amount of debt or blockades for all of these debtors was reduced by 12.6 billion kuna. Finally, in particular, we would like to highlight the work on the national project, the single area of euro payments in the Republic of Croatia, adapting our national krilling system... or to EU directives. It is done with a large team headed by the Croatian National Bank. There are commercial banks, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Banking Association, and what are we going to do? In principle, we will allow all our entrepreneurs and citizens cross-border payments in euro in line with the European directives. And here's the day before yesterday we got from the Croatian National Bank a solution, i.e. approval for the work of the euro... So this is the phase we've done well. In my presentation, I sought to highlight only the most important, of course not by reducing the importance of other activities, but finally I wanted to say for all of this very dynamic period 2014.We also needed new workers there that we hired 70 new workers and we ended the year with 3139 employees. By stressing that we've been working too hard on a given time. This increase was conditioned for the expertise we needed for the implementation of the above project COP. In the overall qualification structure of agency employees, the average professional prepares 56% of the share, while the share of high professional equipment is now 25% and is increased by 1% compared to 2013. Since we are aware that investing in employees or in their knowledge, education is very important in 2014 we invested a total of 1.3 million kuna and in the structure of these total costs of education 66% is education and education to achieve scientific, professional legal, economic and informational titles and specialist professions, and 34% are professional training through conferences, seminars, symposiums and membership costs in professional associations. During 2014, there was also an increase in the number of staff leaving for education at 9% compared to 2013 due to an increase in internal education in the house by 139%. What does that mean? We have developed a system of internal trainers that conveys knowledge and skills to current and new employees and thus influences more rational management of education costs. It's final. In 2014, FINA did positive business, successfully implemented the process of reorganisation, participates in the development of projects that we estimate will bring us new sources of revenue in the future because our business, or revenue from traditional sources of funds, has been a downward trend for years. Respecting the perceived changes in the environment and new expectations of both our clients, both owners, workers and the largest communities in 2015, we entered very actively ready to redefine our innovation strategy for the period 2013/2017. For the purpose of better positioning in the future, therefore, in order to comply with the emerging circumstances, because our market and other circumstances are rapidly changing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2144	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2145	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's Mrs. FINA's representative mentions the blockades, that it's one of the tools they're using. I would like to point out that the legal and physical persons found in the blockade are actually victims of financial violence. Our citizens as individuals find it very difficult to find employment, many years do not leave the blockade. Even when some big debt comes, it tightens interest, it's actually debt slavery, and the only real change in the executive law can get them out. As far as legal persons are concerned, they find it very difficult to actually report to any competition and cannot actually get out of this bad situation. But I don't, of course, blame you for that, it's the consequence of the executive law, the bankruptcy law. What I'm interested in specifically with the Financial Agency, so your services, specifically blocking and compensation for the executions, therefore there must be some kind of cost. Who brought this coster, and who's in charge of changing that spender? We had a few cases, actually not a few, there were many cases that based on some kind of contrived debt and on a debt the believer didn't know had already charged, orders came. On the basis of these orders, the debtor has been blocked by the account and even completed. Although it was later found that the claim was unfounded, the Financial Agency charged that service for itself. So why isn't he checking if the warrant is warranted? Or when it is determined that it is not, by you or by any other institution, why is this service charged anyway? And the third question, why does it take a few days and if the weekend comes and up to a week to unblock the bill, and why are people actually up to a week without money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2147	The system of executions according to the new Act of Oversight, here, let me explain a little bit more widely. By 2011, banks had carried out the tasks and this was part of the payment turnover. Every bank had its own system for implementation, I'll say the answer. The state has decided to create a single system that will be, we will say just, transparent and effective. I'm talking about the system that all stakeholders who have problems paying their obligations will be treated in one, unique standard way. And that's what we did, like the state I'm talking about. Both the European Commission and many came from Europe to watch as the Republic of Croatia made the system, they praised it and said it was extremely transparent and uniform. How do we charge to say our services? According to the rule he makes and signed by the finance minister. According to the rule, it's exactly what's being written and how it's being charged. Our fees really aren't, I dare say big ones. Why would I say that? Because it's very sensual for the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance to order their agency, you'll do the job at the cost of saying the cost. We prove, show the calculations and prove how much it costs us because of course it's not right for us to have a loss in that job, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2148	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, that's how much it's meant for an answer. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bunetta, you mentioned that you participated in the HITRO project but then it reminded me a little bit to say that this is a valid report that warns of many occurrences that are not good. Yes, they participated in the HITRO project but based on this project, Ministry of Administration since 2012, '13. And in '14. He owes you $4 million, and they haven't paid you for it yet. You have reached your demands from the Ministry of Administration on the basis of the HItro project 4 million kuna. This is just a small example of how much dubiosis is on non-payments and that we don't really know the truth of how many states and state institutions owe and have unsettled, unsettled outstanding claims. If only you, i.e. FINA is asking for 161 million 797 thousand and 479 kuna of state institutions only FINA has outstanding claims 161 million kuna. Of that, here's the Department of Administration 4 million, the Department of Statistics 25 million kuna, you have REGOS where in the report you say does not dispute claims, but also does not pay persistently but owes 69 million kunas of FINA and the dues have debts. The Ministry of Finance owes you 36 million kuna, even the IRS. The Ministry of Agriculture, which boasts that it pays everything on time only in 2014 and 15 years, has been unpaid towards you 18 and a half million kuna. This report is precious to find out, and I ask you to do everything you can to collect those claims because to protect FIN from these irresponsible institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2150	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to, does the committee's first rapporteur actually want to take the floor? No, I don't. Honorable representative Goran Maric does not want to. Then we'll open the debate. On behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the first reported with the Honorable Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2151	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This debate will not be as lively as before, before we move on to this point even though it is debated by me on a very important agency, the Financial Agency, which is actually called the Agency, although in its own way of working and doing business and by all means is a company. But it doesn't matter, so what's his legal form and what's his name. It used to be called a payment service, sometimes a social accounting service. It is important that it plays a very important role not only for the state, but in general for Croatian citizens and the economy. We also heard the presentations by the management president that FINA lost in the payment traffic segment, which was once exclusively dealt with by her and the monopoly while she was SDK or ZAP, that she lost that monopoly position and that she was exposed to the market and then thanks to that, or because of that, she had to turn around and turn to a number of other activities, jobs on the market, and also in business for the country which is good. And today we see that, in fact, in general, even this country-related business is also decreasing from year to year. Therefore, FINA is becoming increasingly market-oriented. And we can only imagine what economic life would look like in general if you didn't give the god of fina for one day stopped if she didn't work. That would be a general collapse. Thus, it simply speaks of how important an institution, agency, or activity it deals with is. If we look at just the fact that over 500,000 transactions happen every day, so it's a hundred and fifty million transactions a year that, therefore, 500 thousand transactions a day, 3000 employees, etc. Even if there are objections and there are certainly individual objections to the work of certain segments, people etc. No wonder, given the number of people who are daily involved in activities with regard to the number of sanctions. It would also be natural to expect more objections in view of the number of perpetrators and the amount of work they are doing. Therefore, FINA is an important service for the work of the state administration, for the ministries, etc. Finally, the Public Administration Development Strategy would almost be unimaginable without the support of FINA in that segment, so where it participates primarily through support through information systems. However, in addition to the fact that the FINA service has its activities, work and improvements, it acts proactively, giving some proposals to improve the acceleration of certain processes, primarily in the state administration and elsewhere. When I talked about the fact that FINA was oriented and forced, so to turn to other activities not only by payment traffic, we see in the 2014 report that only in that year some fifteen new jobs, activities, activities that FINA took over or offered to take over. Let me count just a few: the new Executive Act, so FINA took over the conduct of an electronic public auction. A register of debtors has been established which is very important for the safety of the operation and in general for the security of money. At the end of the year, she carried out activities all in the implementation of a single form system for the collection of data on receipts and taxes of popularly called JOPD. So, although there are a number of new activities, a number of new activities in 2014. FINA Radio did not have a significant increase in employees, which is important. So somewhere around 70 people are more than 3,000 people are slightly increasing. But first of all, it was done because of the need to change the personnel structure. Since when FINA changed both the way work and the type of work, more and more highly educated personnel were needed, primarily informational, trained and educated, and we see this for example, so in 2010 there were 628 people in FINA, or 21% of the total staff, and already 2014, so the year we were talking about was 788 or 25%. So by 4 percent more or if I can say it is one percent increase every year the number of people with high professional equipment is good and it is a trend that will surely have to continue because it is simply the nature of the job that is increasingly necessary for higher education personnel. Therefore, FINA has experienced since 2002, so ever since it was exposed to the market, if I can say so in the payment segment, and is recording the outflow of clients to business banks, which is simply a real threat and what is happening. It is therefore necessary to look for other than these traditional forms of business and new forms of business. I have already listed some but I think it is necessary to point out that in 2014 FINA was indeed an excellent support for certain government projects, I will list one project, an e-citizen by which we are recognised in Europe as the EU's leading country. So where FINA has also done its part of the job and that it is actually running this unique system of verification of electronic identity. Furthermore, the central account of salaries started by the previous government with support, the information support of FINA simply without this support would not be imaginary and during 2014 the COP was extended to education, health, agencies, institutions in culture etc. So, all in all the other segments. Simply today, it is an absolutely beneficial project that has introduced simple order into pay, if I may say so, introduced order and justice and eventually brought a series of savings to the state budget. It was also an important thing that FINA was doing in 2014 and new activities were, if I may say so, related to forced payment and especially to pre-fashion settlements which in 2014 were more than 7,000 requests to launch a pre-fashion settlement, so about 7500. So it's a huge job that should have been done and that, without increasing FINA's employees, has done with the existing personnel potential. I haven't said anything about the financial indicators of FINA's business, although it's often the main topic of debate here. Not because they are bad or because they have something to hide but simply on the contrary, because they are clearly visible and that FINA has a positive business for many years in a row and achieves an increase in income. And that's in that segment that doesn't concern co-operation with the state. Since business with the state or services it does not work for the state is not small, it was almost 40% of its income in 2014, so around 330 million kuna, but it is 7% lower than in the previous year. However, although the revenues alimony based on state services fall FINA notes the growth of income in others due to activities in other areas and that revenue growth is in '14. compared to '13. was 3%, and compared to 2012 by 9%. Otherwise, it is always quite unpopular to speak, or perhaps it is not even the most basic indicator of how much the profit of FINA and similar companies or agencies dealing with similar jobs is because simply all those who work for the state cannot increase their profits by increasing the price of services because it is allowed if they can say so on the market but not when they work for the state. Therefore, it could increase its revenues by increasing the cost of services for the state, but of course it is not acceptable. Therefore, it is difficult to talk about profitability when the state simply determines a good part of the operating conditions or a good portion of the income as is around 40% here. However, what is absolutely visible, which is that, in the context of the increased volume of work and increased income, there was a reduction in material costs and costs for services, although it would be logical that they increased parallel to the increase in jobs in 2014 by 4% compared to 2013 and 10% compared to 2012. This amount is not small because simply the total cost of material and service costs is slightly less than 200 million, so a total of around 20% of the total expenditure. So it's not a small item. All in all, we can safely say that FINA has achieved positive financial indicators on the one hand, on the other hand, that it has done almost everything, not all of them, but all of the projects that have been set up for it, and without simply doing this work, it would not be possible to realise many of the projects that this government or government has undertaken in the previous term, and so it will also apply to this government, which has begun. So FINA has really done an extremely good job and we absolutely assess its work positively and I hope that this will continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2152	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2153	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about an institution that was supposed to be shut down in a given time, but unfortunately, a lot of it lost, and then the same political nomenclature turned that agency into the most important agency in this country eight years later. So, since I said some things in 2002, I'm just gonna do it again. So in 2002, Croatia was simply not ready for the liberalisation of payment traffic and the transfer of payment to business banks, it is likely that this amount of debt and debt and great things happened. Today, however, we can say for FINA that the state is the biggest beneficiary of FINA services but at the same time that the state is also the biggest debtor to FINA. That's what you basically don't see when you're looking at budget execution because the budget is run by some kind of cash principle, only what's paid and what you need to pay you don't see anywhere. And since FINA and the state are left and right pockets then you don't see it in principle in this report. So, this report shows that FINA has adopted a lot of new ones to say the product that the state does and does, however, only one elemental question arises whether FINA when you look at labour fluctuations has FINA been able to do all these jobs? First of all, the Law amending the law, the Law of Law, and the Law of Forced Charge, are they sufficiently educated, do they know how to do the job? However, what I want today, on behalf of the club, on behalf of the HDZ Club today, I want to semimise here today, and I sincerely hope that some representative will come forward on behalf of the HDZ Club about two first-class political topics. And I just don't think that no matter what the 2014 report is about, we can't just skip that just practically in 3.5 sentences something about a pre-fashion deal has been written. A pre-departure settlement is a law that was voted in this House unanimously, and after a week 45 articles have been changed and this law has gone in a very long direction. And what's interesting about the representatives in this House is not to write in this way that 7574 items have been received in 2014, showing 65 billion kunas of declared liabilities and covering these companies that are employed in the pre-departure settlement by 60 148 workers. I think it's too much data for a few reasons. In the past three, four years, we have had the opportunity to listen to the state's claim be reduced, as the amounts of unpaid funds were reduced, however, it was only administrative depriving the foundations of the pre-profit settlement. So what are we probably interested in at the HDZ club and also interested in the Croatian public, after 3 years of what are the results of the pre-profit settlement? How many processes have succeeded, how many have failed, how many are employed today compared to the moment when a pre-fashion deal is launched, why? Well, because the state has written down over 10 billion kunas through pre-war deals. The question arises, what about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen who in principle have been asked nothing at these hearings. They're told you'll get so many and so many claims, or you won't get so many and so many years without interest and take it or leave it. So nothing is written here, and many craftsmen unfortunately closed their craftsmanships just like small entrepreneurs. And these are the facts, the facts that when we talk about the financial agency's report, he must be found in this report. Why? So when you look at the income side of the financial agency then you will see that the highest incomes are practically revenue from pre-price settlements if I'm not mistaken it's somewhere around 114 million kuna in 2014 and then the logical thing is to us as Parliamentarians who both entrepreneurs and citizens are asking about what the result is. And I think that this is the area that the report should specifically process for the simple reason of billions of budget revenues. It is also likely that some jobs have been saved, but it is also very interesting to see which of the first 200 lucky ones who were in the pre-fashion settlement process. So that's what we unfortunately don't see in this report, but that's what we're going to look for in this report and what we're going to look for in the 2015 report. Because look there was some law there in 2002 on the obtained outstanding claims called one, meaning and technique very similar only that in pre-curricular settlements it was never a sub-strategic report that really happened. But I'm saying by virtue of the Pre-price settlement Act, tens of billions of kunas have been written off to claim the state. What happens to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen not to speak. It is also very interesting that the number of blocked Croatian citizens is growing year by year. Unfortunately, at this point, that amount is at 29.6 billion, as she said, actually in 2014, as Mrs. Bunetta said. And that's the same thing we have to worry about. How did that debt come about? Set it up according to some kind of social criteria and property criteria. And what I want to say here clearly is very interesting that in these reports, practically very little or no mention of the OIB. The OIB was supposed to be an instrument based on which to solve certain things. The OIB was supposed to be an instrument based on which in pre-demand settlements it would not happen that 5, 6 or 10 daughters suddenly have 70% claims and conducts a complete bankruptcy and pre-departure process. Why the OIB? So if you see that you type in the OIB of a company or the owner of that company to you, so it was imagined, that those who brought in the OIB, but unfortunately it was so implemented, you should have opened up to the beauty of all the companies that he had opened or which the owner had opened up to you and then finally come to you regardless of the law on interlinked societies that these societies are very connected because when you see and use material resources and basic assets, then you will see that these companies are very closely connected and that they cannot fall under the Law on interlinked societies that they are not interlinked and then you would see that many things simply could not happen. But I say here we have what we have in three and a half sentences explained. And another project that started in 2009 which is the central salary account. So the central accounting project started for one reason only, since in many ministries, you have 30, 40 bonuses on your salary to finally see in this country who gets what pay from which, and this should have been practically the last step towards the adoption of the Law on Payment Classes where work would be paid, where knowledge would be paid, where professional perfection would be paid, where no formality would be paid as unfortunately at this point in the Republic of Croatia. And no matter how much we talk about reforming this or that, without the pay grade system, we can't solve the problem either of the public services, of the MUP, of the Morh or of anyone else. Because if someone gets that kind of pay, it's just that the formation belongs somewhere, not because of what they're doing, it's something that's simply not fair. And that was why it started on the central salary bill. And to be clear, for the past five years, it's been five years since the FINA, and these five years, those who didn't want to enter the data inside to calculate the wages. That's true, and that's what you have to say. And that's when they say politics doesn't support reforms. This is a classic example of your colleague and colleague. Everything was practically prepared in 2009 to begin with. However, when you look at only 2014 most of the entities in the country began, he moved on to the COP. And you know what the ministries and other users were supposed to do? Only in FINA were they to enter data on wages, coefficients, all other accessories and the system is as smart as you feed it smartly and get those data. But someone has been trying to explain it for years. Here, I'm sorry Mrs. Bunetta didn't tell me today, and for understandable reasons, that the COP was only late because those who were responsible for using the state budget, and you're only talking about the funds for the state budget somewhere around 28.2 billion kuna. These are the salaries of all the budget users. When we add public companies to that, tomorrow and local self-government units, it's more than 30 billion kuna. And if you don't determine exactly on what basis the payout is, then you can't talk about any reform. It doesn't have to mean reform to cut wages. However, reform should mean those who know, those who are worthy and those who work to gain more and those who do not work, so they did not deserve to win. I think that's the one thing we'll all agree on. And that's why, I say, that's why we're on behalf of the club thinking about what you're talking about, because these are other all technical data, these are processes that last long and need to be talked about here. Why? Because in 2 or 3 years, the pre-war settlement will turn into some kind of political bickering. At the same time, in 2012, in 2013, we heard that the state's claims were reduced by 10 billion kuna. They're not cut. Only, at the time when the pre-demand settlement procedure was initiated, the tax administration had issued a write-down on that entity on the basis of that pre-demand agreement and it simply disappeared from the accounting records, nothing else. And that's why when we talk about agencies, when we talk about their purpose of need, not necessarily, what we should say for FINA is that, as a phoenix from the ashes, they have risen and that information support is, today, practically, crucial to all projects of the government. And that's a fact. Now, what they're doing about it depends on what the government is going to let them do. Well, it's not up to them. So they have some products that offer the market, they can be good, they can be bad, but they are what they are. I continue to argue that in payment traffic, first of all, there are many of our citizens who still pay their obligations on the counters, given that FINA's counters are in principle in all the cities of the Republic of Croatia, bigger, practically in the centre itself, I think that this is something for our citizens, which should be thought about. It should be thought that all state institutions have the code and that practically through it is charged that there is no typing when it has to be typed into 30, 40 figures, in this way we will help our citizens. So, regardless of these examples, but I say if we don't get the report for 2015, we'll talk about them and 2015. The HDZ Club will support this report because it is well done at technical level. It gives us answers to some questions, gives us information about some new products that FINA adopted and supported for certain government projects. But I'm saying these are two key things about billions of kunas, and I just think that the report must, in fact, be worth billions of kunas and not a few sentences. First of all, parliamentarians get credible information about what was going on with pre-fashion deals. And here it would be good to write so many and so many subjects, so many and so many employees received wages in that amount and that amount, then that information would be much stronger and then probably talk to me about some things in this House differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2154	Thank you very much. We will now move to the next club and this is the MOST club, the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2155	Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. A few words in front of the Most Representatives' Club, following this report by the Financial Agency. Here's the first question of execution, and here we really think that we need to review and amend the executive law. And he's right, Mr. Sincic, who's asked a question and who's shown with his activism what direction it should act that something is wrong here. It can't be that a man who owes 30, 50 or 80 kuna to pay another 700 or 1000 kuna in the course of an executive procedure in which non-legislative societies earn the most, but individual law firms such as Croatia have only a few lawyers, right? The second question is pre-warrant settlements, here is Mr. Shucker here said, there should be a detailed report to be made. Mrs. Bunetta, me and we here at MOST didn't come to the Parliament to read reports that unfortunately left us SDP, so for a month and a half we've been dealing with reports, partisans and Ustashas, I'm not happy, we should have discussed it more because otherwise tomorrow morning someone will say give it another two hours to finally, we've made a proposal that a seven-day plenary session discusses it. So please. We're going to the MOST Representatives' Club will request in writing that you draw up a detailed report for this entire Parliament on pre-nuptial settlements. So it's a black spot in Croatia's recent history. After conversion and privatisation it is probably the biggest source of crime in Croatia. We can't go over it, and we can't go over it, and that's what the debate has to be about. If not now, then by nature things will open up they will be in a year, two, three. The just previous government was proud of the pre-profit settlement project, and the minister who launched it was praised to the sky, and unfortunately became the victim of pre-fashion deals. So, in order for these debates in the House to make sense and for citizens who look at us here via television to finally get answers to these questions we have to have the right things. So, you're here in the report, we'll support him listed a lot of things. But we are looking for answers to these important issues that are related to pre-fashion settlements where the Financial Agency played an extremely important role and simply to see what was going on here. If I'm not mistaken, I've seen in your report next to all of these debtors that Dr. Maric specifically mentioned in the lip, please confirm or deny. If I saw correctly there it says that the Croatian National Bank did not pay you any debt of 8 or 10 million kuna. I don't know if I've seen it right. If it's true they didn't pay you how, because it is, that firm can't be inequitable. And the final question of the future of fina. Just before it was said, it seems that it was a project that the former SDK, or after ZAMP, was not ZAP, but ZAP, excuse me, to simply get numb. This would otherwise fit into one project so that society would lose its key source of information that you today provide and process. When a society and a state don't have such a source of information, it doesn't know what's going on. So, you can't, there's no management, you can't handle the processes, you're lost. It would be good for us, in addition to this report that has its intention, to also inform us more about the future of FINA, so in which direction it goes strategically, to see to what extent, that is, to what extent FINA is connected to all state institutions. Because I said it was the informational, informative basis of all institutions in Croatia from the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the DORH, this, that, the commercial courts. So it's inevitable. FINA gives us a blood count of the economy and society, of all processes, without it we know nothing. In this context it would be necessary for us to present a clearer picture of the future of FINA, because you can do much more, you have great potential as human resources, and your network covers all of Croatia. So once again in the end I conclude on behalf of the MOST that we want to, it's not our intention to just deal with reports that we're going to confirm or reject here and then eat the donkey wolf. We want to change this Croatia in all the details, even in this context, and here is the project OIB why it stopped, etc. And it's never been a bigger, better information support. It's never been this advanced in information, telecommunications. So there are reasons why some things are hitchhiking, and the Croatian public wants to hear these answers from here. Because we didn't come here to sit here and spend time or to cheer up citizens who watch, but to really change reality. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2156	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, distinguished professors, I have to respond to one claim, which is that we're not just here to discuss reports. I must draw attention to you that you are the majority, that you dictate the pace, that you are not the opposition, that we are also waiting to see these reforms, to see these new laws, legislative proposals. But you have the initiative to bring them. So far, we have seen only some personnel solutions, several legislative proposals that only talk about changing some laws to comply with the vice-presidents of the government, but not since the reforms yet "r". So we're waiting to make a deal first to see who the deputy and assistant ministers are. So you're expected to have an initiative anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2158	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2159	Well, dear colleague, I must admit that I'm not too happy with this weighty preparation as it is with the formation of a government. I apologize for this expression, but you are the least invited here and means a coalition that has been acting as the authority to ask such questions that you expect something in these 20 days to radically change Croatia. What have you been doing these four years? Therefore, you expect miracles now. Of course, I expect citizens too, and you rightly ask yourself. But you've done a lot of cooking, not only for four years, but long before that. Here are some of your colleagues and colleagues who were unable to conduct their family affairs, and these were your distinguished ministers who contributed to their poor work of breaking Croatia. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2160	The next replica is distinguished representatives of Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2161	You say in your debate, among other things, that we are dealing with old topics or irrelevant topics or topics that have run over in some way because most of these 2014 reports are so I must draw attention to the fact that, by any chance, the Parliament has exhausted the agenda in the past term so that we do not have anything to do in the Parliament today. If the parliamentary procedure had entered three or four technical proposals for amendments to the law, one of the MOSTs also seemed to be a proposal for a new law on parliamentary salaries. However, you must know that the procedure goes in a way that the government proposes laws, as a rule, that they then come to the Parliament and we have not yet fully formed the Government. Therefore, it is not exactly your accusation because the Parliament's past assembly has been passed, and I have been sitting in it, if I will remember well the first day of the session of several laws I have changed. One of the most hasty was the executive law. So I wouldn't agree if we didn't work and didn't come prepared. And obviously it means with this situation that we now have in the House that the team that came to the government was either unprepared or not yet or that it has not agreed on what and how to do and what its objectives are so that in this House we can discuss what is important for Croatia. And what's worst seems to be doing nothing in the direction of continuing to do what was right. Because here these days we see that not everything was so bad and that some of the indicators that we expected would be better these very days and in numbers it proved to be good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2162	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2163	Well, Your Honor, ma'am, you have great experience in the Parliament. However, these results, which you list here, are not seen by Croatian citizens. 300 thousand unemployed are again, external debt, public debt, and now I'm not giving a lecture from the economy. There's a lot wrong with that. There was a lot of material. Of course I'm telling you about these points that are left unsolved. So why are the others unsolved? You see, we've been working here for a month what was supposed to be solved last year. But we'll probably figure it out by the end of this month. And I think it would be a good idea to start a ministry of the past so that for this time until, for them, they argue that we're dealing with the future, so if there's something there that's been evaluated which is really a problem to put it on. But don't burden us. So we're going to solve these things but let's really solve the problems because this burning fire forgive this expression every day here every day when a session starts on the other side it doesn't lead anywhere, it doesn't make any sense. We have come here and we are expected to really offer some solutions, not to fight or who will give a better and more striking speech or say some syntagm or some metaphor, and transfer it to one of the media in order to make more money to his party boss or party manager, right? We, when it comes to the Most, will not tolerate it. So, everybody get serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2164	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. It's the only one for now that respected representative Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2165	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you stressed that it was the only individual, and this report is so inspiring that you could imagine why it was only one individual debate. Well, Professor... Lovrinovic stressed only the problem of pre-fashion settlements and that no one needs to say more about it. In the debate, he stressed a problem that FINA was facing because of the outstanding claims and irresponsibility of those led by state institutions and other debted FINAs. I'm going to use these few minutes for the part you're writing about that you've been working on 7574 pre-fashion proceedings. Of these deals, you write that 65 billion kunas of reported liabilities and 60,000 workers are covered. I'm interested in a few questions, and I think it would be good, and not only well, but necessarily, if we had a report on pre-fashion settlements on all important elements. Here's a few thoughts that would interest me. Is 60,000 employees only with pre-determined debtors or does it include pre-determined creditors? I think when you read the data, you only think about the debtors. But I'm interested in what happened to the trustee's employee? How many employees in the total pre-determined credentials reported? Maybe a little over 60 grand. I'm interested in how many employees were employed after the completion of these pre-determined procedures in pre-chastodial credentials? How did pre-chaste actions affect the believers, not just the debtors? What happened to them? How much did they lose a worker if they didn't end up in bankruptcy? What if we have 15,000 pretenses, and after the pretense deals, half of them went bankrupt? There was talk of misdemeanors in the area. Lately, it is popular to speak only in Croatia about fascism, but from one angle. But no one to mention economic fascism and he's at every turn around us. Well, a pretense settlement is a legitimate economic fascism. Imagine forcing someone to pay all the bills and taxes that they had to write off those claims and he paid taxes from those outstanding claims, and whoever didn't pay that invoice didn't pay a tax, he was forgiven for everything. How do you call it different than maybe even an economic apartheid? That's why we can't, and we can't go over the pre-fashion settlements. You must know the truth about them, you must know how irresponsible there was, how much impudence there was, how much lawlessness there was. How do you explain the fact that by charging your claims, the state takes a property worth 36 million kuna or 34 million kuna, and then the same property Mr. Peinovic publishes for sale through a public tender and its initial price is a million kuna, so almost 30 times less and no one will buy it and has not sold it until today, but they estimated it at 34 when it was necessary to close down someone's claims. And that's what all the competent institutions are silent about, and they're even advertised, and that it's all clean. How many of the 65 billion kunas of the declared liabilities belonged to the connected persons of the pre-departure debtors? That's a very important question. Pre-departure debtors invented obligations and connected with connected persons and we don't even know how much such obligations are. Of those 7574, how many ended up after the bankruptcy settlement? According to this data, we're about to conclude half of it. Because if your cost was 9.5 million kuna and income 4.8 million kuna, and the reason why you didn't charge it was to go bankrupt then it turns out that half of the pre-warrant proceedings or debtors in the pre-demand proceedings ended up in bankruptcy again. So who was so estimating that it would be a successful pre-war deal when half of them made you into debt. Who's going to compensate for the damage you caused to the FINAs, not you, the law ordered you? Who's going to make up for these five million kunas you didn't charge? That's too bad, Finna. You had expenses, no income, and we have a case for 1 million and 200 thousand kuna is detained 21 persons in Croatia. Here 5 million, 30 million, 100 million, 500 million nothing happens. How many pre-fashion deals have been granted for debtors who have not had any employees? How many pre-fashion deals have been granted for debtors who have had up to 10 employees? We don't have that information. How many pre-determined creditors fired the worker after the forced release of the claim and ended up in bankruptcy, they themselves. Were there any pressures on FINA in pre-price settlement procedures and who were putting pressure on it? Could it have been official personnel? Do I have to call the poor FINA employees going through anything they were on the DORH for questioning, they did. For what? Not guilty or indemnity. Because you were pressured to extend the deadline for the extension of the pre-determined settlement even though the deadline was legal and could not be wrong? Yes, I have a letter from an official who says don't decide on it, don't decide on the law, he decides when the deadline will be extended. And by law, it works. How many fictitious claims are made up in pre-curricular settlements? No one knows. Who controlled and established pre-determined obligations and claims? No one's ever found that out. Imagine so many actions of 50 billion, 65 billion kuna, and no one determined whether these claims were correct or not. The debtor determined how much he owed, and no one else had the right to verify it. You're a debtor and I claim that I owe him 5 billion kuna, you don't have the right to verify whether or not I owe him or not, if my connected person is also... a pre-departure debtor, you don't have the right to verify it, the court had no right to check it. Only the debtor says it's true and it's accepted. And over all that close your eyes, all that shut up and put it under the carpet. This is something why Croatia must blush, which seemed to be in pre-departure settlements, and how much, when it is said, saved jobs, how many have been destroyed, how many have been imprisoned, how did it affect when the pre-departure debtor has to force his claims, as it has affected his creditors, how much did he not pay for it to others, what happened to the whole series? There's no feedback there's only one, first information, so much and so many bankruptcy procedures they've reduced, they've kept working, they've kept busy so much and so much. Yeah, we killed 100 to save 60. And then we justify killing 100 legal persons by saving 60. But this isn't a criticism of the FINA, you've had to implement what the law orders you and what they gave you and push you to lose. They still owe you 171 million, they don't pay you, and they still cost you 4.5 million kuna on pre-profit deals. That is why I think it would be necessary to form in the Parliament and by consensus an investigative committee that would determine all the circumstances in relation to pre-fashion settlements. It would be a long and hard work but it would be necessary if we wanted to answer these questions, at least part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2166	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2167	Thank you, Mr. President. Here are two questions: I'm gonna take a First of all, do you consider this act to be pre-determined settlements which, when carried out in the manner that you are now, even though in a short period of time pictured, is practically a legal robbery from conversion and privatisation in some cases or in many? And secondly, what do you think of Mr. Debeljak's statement, the owner of the DIV, said in the media the other day that he wasn't working, that he wasn't shaking for what he was doing, that he'd be better off applying for a pre-fashion deal because he could make a hundred million kunas. And once again, you said it, but it would be a good idea for the entire Patriot coalition to confirm here what we're looking for and here you are asking to establish this investigative commission. So to either solidify it or deny it, to finally make things clear. And it would be good to show that the SDP coalition, which I don't currently have the strong impression of being involved in means in such a project that finally, I think it would mean a lot to all of us as a Parliament, and most of all to the citizens, finally to find out the truth about the move and the policy that has been declared a healing of the Croatian economy, a project that will contribute to employment, etc., so that we finally have one real picture. So please, I'd like to ask you the answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2168	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2169	Thank you very much. Well, I hate to comment, but I'll answer it indirectly. It is not worth working in Croatia, it is not worth paying in Croatia regularly because it is always better for those who do not pay their commitments. And even then a legal framework was designed to actually legalize this discrimination. And it is not disputed that this Pre-departure settlement bill is discriminatory. I'm just worried that the Constitutional Court kept quiet on all the plays. And so many university professors have said what they think of that law. And practice has shown much worse than predicted. Not only did the law not have to be passed, but the law was also passed, and much was done beyond the law. But the worst part is that in the pre-determined procedure, they could apply with their claims to anyone who wanted to without anyone being able to control whether this claim really exists or not. That's the worst of the worst. Imagine that you can say here now, so I'm asking you and you don't have to prove billions. And you don't have to prove anything. That says the debtor, I owe myself there to some related company, I'm physically, there's no evidence of payment. And no one could control it. And if we were to just list the first 20 legal entities that ended up in a pre-fashion settlement and a little evaluate the ownership structure of these companies, relations with some other companies, with some people, then we would be more clear on why the pre-emptive settlements were made. But it would also be interesting to see why some were written off 70% of their claims and some only 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2170	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2171	Thank you very much. Comrade Marić, I have tried to Polish some things in this report for the simple reason that we do not speak at all because all of us, MPs, are unfortunately inaccessible. And to us, the members of the Committee on Finance and the Economy. Because if we were to adhere only to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then there is clearly a provision in one article that when a law is passed that must be made and an assessment of its fiscal impact. And this law was passed, not only does it have a very devastating fiscal impact, because I say at some point this law and what was implemented by the basis of this law served as an argument that debt to the state has fallen by 10 billion, and you and I have talked about it in recent years that it is administrative... But what we've been saying today, unfortunately, until we get official information from whoever's running it is unfortunately an empty story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all those who have lost in a pre-fashion settlement unfortunately have no use for it. And that's why we need to insist that in the 2015 report we get a report on the pre-fashion settlements. And what is the situation with these companies, first of all, of those who have been devoid of extensive claims to the state budget. Because at one point, it was said that the state's claims were reduced by more than 10 billion kuna and since the revenue side of the state budget did not have the opportunity to see that revenue from certain positions increased from the basis of the state's reduced claims, then apparently by administrative means reduced in the pre-profit settlement. So I'm saying that it would be more sober and stronger and better to talk about it, because I repeat this the second time in a very short time is a similar story. The Law on Achieved and Not Charged Claims, and 10 years later, the Pre-Agreement Act is the same political nomenclature.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2172	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2173	Thank you very much. So we also told our colleague Shuker that it is necessary to deliver the report in particular on the implementation of pre-demand agreements and pointed out here several questions that interest us and which should certainly contain answers, the report should contain. We asked one of the questions just before 60,000 employees, and how many employees were in the pre-determined credentials. The second question would interest me in how much of the claims reported and eventually written down, so what was forced on those creditors, they had to write off, how much was it forced to write off the tax claims already paid? I'd be interested in that. And how many write-offs haven't been taxed? The state also writes down how much she hasn't charged her taxes before. For example, the believer who did not charge the invoice and must now, had to write off by order and by decision of the council and by law, he paid the profit tax according to the invoice because the entire invoice entered him a million kuna plus VAT, those million kunas was income. The income of the basics must pay VAT according to that invoice, must pay for the profit by that invoice. Maybe he even paid off, took out a loan, so you paid off something because he can't function differently, and now the state tells him you have to write off the claims, but the taxes you paid on that invoice stay. Well, there's got to be a way to settle what's not paid for by the guy who's got everything written off. So he's comfortable with it from all sides. And then, of course, it includes financial institutions that dominate the debtor on the matter of decisions, and then, most of them, decide on those who would not agree to write off their claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2174	Thank you very much. And now the closing statement would be given by the Honorable President of the Finance Agency's Board of Directors, Mrs. Angelka Bunetta.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2175	As I said a few hours ago when I began to state that our Annual Report was structured according to the ouses, let's say the professions are unwritten plus the constructive proposals of the parliamentary representatives from the previous Assembly, and this is where Mr Schuker was particularly pointed out, and we are really constantly doing and adapting. The standard doesn't exist and of course we're adapting. It's very difficult when FINA has 130 repairs to give everyone attention, you know, it's not easy. I mean, not that I'm defending myself here right now, but it would just be a lot, a lot easier for us to standardize it. We even thought about it this way, to structure the services and thus inform the Honorable Assembly by users. So what FINA is doing for the bodies of the state administration and what it does on a commercial basis, so we saw that some things would fall out of that diapazon and some parts of the business we do for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, some for the citizens and so on. But thank you for all the constructive suggestions. We will try to classify it all for the 2015 report. I just wanted to, I stayed in debt to Mr. Sincic, and I couldn't answer at that time. If you're interested in coming to us, we're going to explain, we're going to talk, and we're standing open as we can, of course, because we're limited by the laws and regulations to come, we're going to say that we're improving this system. We got this job in 2011, and to this day, we're almost this fifth year, today people are educated for these jobs. We learned what we didn't know, and I think we're doing a good job. I believe that we can also help you because we are still some kind of contact with what I'm going to say to both blocked citizens and entrepreneurs and our people are experiencing and surviving, so I think we can help each other and that future changes to the law will absolutely be said even better and more appropriate since we have some experience so far based on which we can build new amendments and amendments to the law. As far as pre-departure settlements are concerned, you know that according to the Financial Business Act and pre-departure agreements FINA has provided I will say the analytical support of administrative, software, spatial plus our people who have been trained, had certain qualifications professional, participated in the work of the settlement councils. The settlement councils are independent in making their own decisions. Any decisions and letters made at those hearings shall be made public on the website of the FINA and any debtor at which the pre-accession settlement was held may be monitored according to the OIB. We'll do our best, but we can't do it ourselves, of course, because for these questions we need to consult both the IRS and the Ministry of Finance because we don't have all that information, to make a full report on pre-prime settlements. We can only do what's up to us, right? But here is the fact that here and Mr. Maric has asked and more of you in fact that it would be good to do such a single report we will do everything on our part to make such a report. The OIB as an element that it has revived I will say in all spheres of life and work, all of our systems and subsystems to me without it no one could function, no way. So we exchange data with both tax and other systems. Of course, if it's not enough, we can do more, but according to legal regulations, because we ourselves can't give ourselves the authority to share some information if we don't have that right. As far as the question of the honourable representative is concerned, Lovrinovica is not about the CNB, but about the HPB's claim because we have some disputes. Three of them got 16.5 million in their favor, first degree and we complained and it dates back to 2007, 2008, and two of us got it. That's the 8 we're looking for. Now, since it's a second-degree court they'll be complaining about ours, we'll be complaining about theirs and it'll take me how many years, and I'm saying it's 2006, 2007, 2008. The only thing we've had with the CNB is since 2003, I mean, don't take my word for it, and it's about breaking into the Vukovar payment system in 1996, unfortunately. These are such long, long things far-reaching in the past, because we are also a company, or agency, with a long history of 57 years. As far as this is concerned, it would be a good idea if we came here and talked about the future of fina. That would be perfect. To ask FINA something, in the sense that FINA sees itself, of course the boss is the one who will bring the last one, but we are the ones who follow the EU directives, we are looking for our place under the sun, we are now open to the competition of the European market, so we have entered... Let's adjust. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where we gave it up. We'll support it with our own resources. Why? Staying in the market game because otherwise we're not, it's over. There will be no more than 45% of traditional jobs or income from traditional jobs. And we think it's very important. We are left to adapt to the directive as we popularly call it 80/20. What does that mean? That soon the state as our owner won't be able to give us jobs because we're not making 80% of our income from business with the state. We work more for the commercial part than for the state. So the state won't be able to give us any more jobs under the law of someone else. So we have to transform, and we follow it all, we look at it, we have some suggestions and ideas, and we'd be very glad to have it interactive and to help us, to have you hear what we're doing, what we've done, how we're looking at it. Of course we'll also talk to our resolution ministry, or the Ministry of Finance, to show what and how we see ourselves, and they'll say feedback on their part. I think I've usually answered almost everything. If I'm not something, I apologize. We're standing by, you can do it in writing, orally, whatever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2176	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Here's to this subject of FINA, pre-fashion settlements and all the other things we've spent just a little bit more time on the first subject, I guess that points to the degree of importance that we need to discuss in this House. Well, good. Next, the Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2014. The report shall be submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2014 shall be adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. 135 votes for, 2 abstentions, 1 against. I find that most votes have concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2179	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the council and the MPs. Here's all I welcome and take the opportunity to say a few more words on behalf of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, perhaps relevant to the content of the report itself. Therefore, according to the law, the Agency submitted a report on work for 2014 to this Assembly and, in short, represents a summary of all the activities and results of the work during that period. In short, with regard to the reminder of the Agency's tasks and powers, I would say and remind you that the Agency is authorised to supervise the processing of personal data. In this respect, it shall monitor the implementation of the protection of personal data at the request of the respondents, on a proposal by a possible third party or on official duty. The characteristics of this reporting period are that increased activities are particularly in terms of oversight by official duty, which in some ways represents the kind of proactiveness of the agency itself. In addition, the Agency shall deal with requests for infringements of the right guaranteed by law as well as keeping a central register of personal data collections and a register of personal data protection officers. There are a number of other jobs that are legally foreseen for the agency to deal with, but I'm just going to point out the most important ones for a little while. I mentioned surveillance and to read from the report itself that there is a significant increase in monitoring activities both direct and indirect and especially those of official duty. As I said, the impressions of more proactive than they were in the past. The Agency shall also carry out and exercise control over the transfer of personal data from the Republic of Croatia and there shall also be a significant increase in activity, i.e. a significant increase in the handling of that part of the business almost double compared to the previous year. When it comes to improving the protection of personal data, therefore, through proposals and recommendations both domestic and international institutions and bodies through different forms of cooperation, there is also a significant shift, i.e. a significant increase in all forms of cooperation and activities in this area. As far as the central register is concerned, it's a living mechanism. The records keep filling in, supplementing, some shutting down, some coming up new. In 2014, around 1500 requests and records of new collections were processed and approximately 400 new notices on the appointment of personal data protection officers. The Central Register shall also have the possibility to receive requests via e-mail, which shall be responsible for more than 150 requests from the user or the central registry obligor. The info phone also answered a large number of questions as I said to the user. The central or central part of the Agency’s work and activities shall consist of administrative procedures carried out under the requirements for the protection of rights. They were also significantly increased in that year by almost a fifth. Administrative disputes that are in principle initiated after the dissatisfied party is not satisfied with the Agency's resolutions and by law only possible because the Agency's resolution does not have the possibility to appeal but to launch a administrative dispute. There were 10 of them in that year compared to the previous 2013, which is one small increase, there were previous 8 of them. The report itself provides characteristic forms of these proceedings or disputes. I wouldn't particularly point out any of that. He would just like to point out that most disputes, most disputes end by essentially confirming the agency's solution. A small number of disputes are concluded by either revoking a solution but an extremely small number and ordering a re-action and, in that sense, the Agency seeks to obtain new evidence and establish new facts, i.e. to carry out the procedure in a way that tries to verify, on a legitimate basis, the previous decision taken. With regard to the area of legal opinions relating to the processing of personal data and the conduct of the Head of Collection, there has also been a significant increase in the overall activities and total number of such secret opinions, particularly in irregular procedures where more than 500 queries were received during the year, some of them were transferred very few last year. And most of the answers and opinions on these queries have been completed, or passed. In this area of emphasis, the number of questions raised by public authorities has been increased. This speaks of us, of the growing awareness of these institutions, that the importance of personal data protection issues is placed in the right place. So a total of about 540 and a part of a small 30 and something transferred in 2015. In this area, too, a large number of questions have been answered in direct communication. We have tried and hoped and achieved a significant shift and an increase in all forms of international cooperation through different working groups related to EU directives through, for example, EUROPOL, cooperation with the European Data Protection Supervisor, through advisory bodies such as DAPIX, the World Conference of Commissioners for the Protection of Personal Data and Privacy and through a steady number of study work visits whether agency employees went to foreign bodies or the case was reversed. As regards cooperation with state authorities, public administration authorities and legal persons in Croatia. It has also increased the number and forms of cooperation through different actions from the Croatian Parliament through government, ministries, cities etc.. We have tried and raised the level of public relations specifically with the media through the marking of various events in the report, such as the marking of the Agency's day, the marking of the European Data Day, the protection of personal data and the various kinds of educations that we are doing in the maximum possible frameworks as far as we can and how much capacity we have. In all these areas, there has been a significant increase in the scope of these activities, and I would say the results. Always what such small institutions as we are in pain is a budget level, i.e. the amount of resources that you have that you can effectively do all those tasks that you put before you. Continuing the austerity practice as well as the previous years and in 2014 we acted within the framework of the plan, the budgetary plan so that I would say some funds and 9% less than the total number was practically left neutral. In conclusion, I would just say that, again, some of the findings that the demands and queries for legal opinions have been significantly increased. It confirms the thesis of greater citizens' trust in the agency. Through participation in disputes, i.e. through legal proceedings, we conclude that we are creating and promoting our own practice in the Republic of Croatia both the courts and we as a public-law body competent and responsible for that part of the job. A high percentage of the Agency's resolution by administrative courts, of course, confirms this thesis. So as for all forms of surveillance, we see and see a continuous increase with a relatively small number of employees. We generally think that the idea of total business is positive, satisfying but of course it should and can be even better. The preliminary indicators for the 2015 report confirm that we are just moving in that direction. I'm sorry, I'm a little cold. That would be that, as an additional comment on the report, I wanted to point out to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2180	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Andrija Mikulić, chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2181	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the Committee on Information, Information and Media considered at its 3rd session held on 10 February 2016. Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on 9 July. The Committee considered that report as a parent working body. At the time of the debate, the Committee did not have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report in question. In the opening statement, the Director of the Agency said that the Agency monitors the implementation of the protection of personal data at the request of respondents, on a proposal from a third party or on official duty, indicates the observed abuses of the collection of personal data, the resolution of requests for the determination of infringements of the rights guaranteed by law, the central register of personal data collections and the personal data register of personal data protection officers and other tasks. The Agency carried out 374 surveillance in 2014 which is a 12% increase compared to 2013. In the opinion of the majority of the members of the board, the Agency did not justify the reason for its existence and the protection of personal data, regardless of those data. A series of objections and public objections to the agency's work have caused citizens' mistrust in the personal data protection system. The problem is particularly poor coordination of the agency with other state agencies and ministries, resulting in inadequate and ineffective protection of personal data. Although a technically satisfactory report is not accepted in the opinion of most committee members. The decision not to accept the 2014 report is solely motivated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's policy, which has left doubt on the work of the Agency's head. It's the board, so... Most votes 6 for and 4 against decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion is: "The report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014 is not accepted. A year.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2182	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the debate and the name of the Club of Representatives, the first one will be the Croatian Democratic Community and will speak to the distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2183	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The opportunity to talk about the 2014 report in February 2016 is not in itself something to be particularly excited about, but I believe the 2015 report will arrive in the next few months. What is convenient to this occasion is the possibility to talk about the policy of the past government and the policy of the past parliamentary majority. Today and in the past days since the assembly today, we have heard stories about appointments, resolutions, arguments where the unfavorable words should be ashamed of in the Croatian Parliament, and now we will show, for example, the report on the work of this agency as you critics have done in your time. It is to be determined that the report for 2014 was submitted to the Croatian Parliament and was signed by the director of the agency Mr. As long as I do not make a mistake about Antun Rajkovac, Anto Rajkovac, forgive me. The report, as you have heard, is also in the performance of the president of the home body and, technically and absolutely, absolutely satisfying that it may be subject to some objections, but it would not be the reason for not accepting the report, which means the legal work of the agency in 2014. The problem lies in something else. We are asking the first question who is the gentleman who signed and offered Parliament a report on the work of the discussion agency. Mr. Anto Rajkovacha is being treated as the director of that agency. We're still under the impression of the work of the last government and we're wondering if that's the case. In May 2015, the same government made a decision that relieved its duties, or proposed to the Croatian Parliament, which decided to relieve Mr. Anto Rajkovac and his deputy, Mrs. Dolenc. The parliament accepted the government's proposal as usual, as the government does, we have no arguments and therefore they should be resolved and this document arrived at the Croatian Parliament and was lost in the Croatian Parliament's halls throughout the time. Supposedly, it is now according to our services he has reached the Board of Elections and Appoints, but he has not arrived from there. I am talking about this because in 7.5, the Government sent the representatives of the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Interesting only a day earlier, but in the process at the same time, the SDP's club sent the Croatian Assembly, that is, its president and the proposal for one law, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to be found in an emergency procedure and to amend one of his articles. These are the facts that stand still today. The cabinet's proposal has never been decided at a plenary session. The parliament is a body that appoints and resolves these officials on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that he has received, but has not discussed it. There is no reason why this happened until we enter into the history of the relations of some state institutions because then we will see and it will become much clearer. Namely, this same agency, whose report we are discussing today, several days or weeks before, came forward publicly, given that on the websites of a special service, which is the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest, found personal data from people for whom the agency warned that this information about these people should not have been made public. And instead of cooperating with each other and reaching a quality solution and, in particular, the law established, the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has first deleted the information published on the web pages, then called a press conference, opposed the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency, and then made the matter more beautiful to initiate an administrative dispute against the same agency because it was legally doing its job. At that time, as the commission struggles with the agency comes ideas from the then government and the ruling majority to resolve both the director and his deputy duties. However, the dispute that lasted with the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest includes the European Commission, even legal experts from the Faculty of Law and all give rights to the Agency and no one to the commission. And then the whole story is that I am not wrong about the date of 1 September 2015 The Administrative Court in Zagreb is making a decision to suspend the administrative dispute between the agency and the commission, since the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Administrative Dispute has dropped the suit against the Agency. Today, in 2016, Mr Rajkovaca sat in the place where he was appointed a few years ago, the entire procedure was initiated by the Government in order to differentiate him and his deputy and their service in public, in order to use other central administration bodies that were initiating proceedings against them that he gave up because he understood probably even during that procedure that he was wrong. And it's about the publication of personal data that everyone is embarrassed to talk about because it concerns state officials, which is data on your personal status, about the fact that some of the officials have children, where the address they live in, what their receipts are, the loans they took before they entered into office, etc., etc. And regardless of the dispute between these two services, we haven't solved the question in a satisfactory way. We resolved it by means of the SDP method, that at the same time as the disputes and conflicts between the two authorities of state authorities are at the same time changing the law at the same time, and only one article is to make it clear to everyone what it is about is the data that also appears on the websites of certain institutions about government officials, and their intervention in the law is to add an article that speaks of the publication of the data of words behind the words of officials, and they are not subject to the provisions of the law governing the protection of personal data. Of course, we can ask ourselves what kind of duties these are or what category of people the protection of personal data does not apply to. Which is all that must be shown in the Croatian public about officials and whether it is necessary to write about them and what can be later even if you want to go so far as to talk about security and their families. But no one asked about it because it was necessary to satisfy the passions of probably public service and thus show themselves to an open society with all your data that will cause tomorrow one of you or your colleagues to suffer enormous damage. It's the result of the work of the last government, but as usual in a very clumsy way. The government wanted to show that its institutions were not doing quality work, not treating their work but replacing service leaders because they had dared to interpret the law as all later bodies have shown that it was the right interpretation of the law. We're left with a question, and now it's pretty clear who was right about the whole procedure. No one asked how the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest worked and that no one found the need to ask whether they had violated the law in anything and whether it was their responsibility rather than the responsibilities of those who pointed to their illegal conduct. But this is covered by the urgent intervention of the law on the SDP club proposal in the Croatian Parliament. This is a beautiful illustration to make it clear to everyone how the SDP ruled and how it worked. And that is why I have to say, because of these doubts that have been opened by the resolution of people who are still in those same positions, only because of this, the HDZ club will not support this report but will fully support people who have worked at the agency in a legitimate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2184	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2185	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, my colleague, Llakar, I have listened carefully to your presentation, and I have a few more doubts about the basis of your presentation because in the past term we have been present here with a number of problems that we have seen coming from the Kukuriku government and the Kukuriku coalition, which has all been ironing neatly and saying that everything is okay, that everything is legal. My first question is, are the agency director and his deputy still the director of the same agency? The second is they have started a dispute against the Republic of Croatia at the European Commission, if I am well informed, and we do not know how this dispute ended. And the third is what we witness today, which is the behavior of today's opposition, and then the authorities. Because they have no problem today saying that, say, the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy, which has appointed 12 members, cannot function because there is no president. But the agency where both the director and his deputy are resolved without a problem works full here for 7.8 months since the resolution. Then we don't know again in this second situation when we're talking about SOA. They say everyone's saying the SOA just doesn't have surveillance, and the principal's still not cleared. And then let's compare it to what they did. They simply forgot that we had a whole day's debate, it was a debate that lasted all day. The United Point Proposal for a Law amending the Law on conflict of interest and resolution. The parliament has made no position, it has not resolved, it has not confirmed the government's decision, it has not received a new appointment, or anything has happened. And today we're discussing here I say about the 2014 report and we don't really know whether this gentleman I can personally appreciate is legal or not legal? Well, here's what I think we're going to hear today. We're going to hear a lot of interesting situations about this agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2186	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2187	Dear counterpart Boric, this is only part of the problem, a small illustration of how the government, the SDP's government, is ruled by the SDP's majority. What remains not said on this occasion is the question of why it is and I am forced to conclude that it is because they want to worry about the protection of personal data in this way. There's a rabbit in that bush. So we'll open up a hopefully debate about how it's possible to use personal data in our country, for example. that the government and the authorities of the state administration data on citizens who have been transferred to their ownership and to the use of companies. There is an interesting company of a very interesting part of the circle, called the APIS, to which the government passed over complete lists of voters and over which the government no longer controls. And then we wonder if there was room for the government to make sure that the Personal Data Protection Agency is there to monitor and see how personal data is available or if there was enough conflict with the other government body to decide that it should be replaced but only one side. The other one spared her, no one said why. And in the end, it turned out that the very ones the government proposed to replace were right and were working legally. I'll leave the conclusion to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2188	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Mario Klobučić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2189	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Rajkovac here only now heard a report from his HDZ counterparts from the Patriot coalition why they would not accept this report, but they looked at the report from another perspective. I'd like to pay a little more attention to the very report the agency made. At first, I would say that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is not a sufficiently transparent agency because very little information on the activity can be found on their official website. Comparatively, the last three annual reports for 2012, 2013 and 2014 appear to have been much more active in 2013 than in 2014 at least when it comes to the education of media and public campaigns and the EU project, while the traffic of surveillance and opinion to state institutions has increased in 2014. The 2014 report says that the agency has not implemented a single EU project, only one staff education, and only 500 of the total of 2200, although I can say from personal experience that it is very relative to what these employees are dealing with, that is, their additional work but I question even their work and suspicion of the existence of such jobs or additional responsibilities for these jobs. Furthermore, it says that they only continued workshops and education for children. Nowhere is indicated which workshops and educations are concerned by or in any number. So how can we adequately give an opinion on whether it's good or not if we don't have that information? Only one conference or public event plus a part of the Split Festival and a campaign against hate speech on the Internet. In addition, the production of promo material is listed only in a slow manner. In the 2013 report, there are many more activities mentioned in this segment, so we can rightly ask why over half a million kunas of unused budgets remained in 2014. The strategic plan for 2014 to 2016 states that one of the most important activities of the agency is to raise awareness of young people and children in the field of protection of personal data. This report cannot be considered as being achieved especially because of a small number of activities and probably closely linked to this surplus. Only the ambassadors of privacy are mentioned in this area, but it's the only thing that's been done once. The problem is also an extremely large percentage of the agency's budget used for employees' salaries and all the funding the agency receives from the state budget. According to some calculations, it's easy to say from the report that it's even up to 80% of the funds. It is also problematic not to carry out internal control which is not explained in the report although it is recommended that the AZOP as a direct budgetary user conducts internal control as seen in the 2015 strategic plan. Then we can ask the principle of justification of a number of agencies that have around 190 and similar institutions that employ more than 20,000 people and spend about 70 billion kuna annually on most of the RS budgets. With us agencies are not considered to be part of the state administration, their employees have salaries according to the level of employment that the agencies determine themselves. There's no control over them. While it seems after the handover that ministers have found ministries where there are reportedly many unfulfilled jobs. At the same time, we have too many agencies dealing with activities that would belong to one of the ministries. People in them may be employed by political likeness or by other relationships. The EU Parliament Directive on the protection of personal data, Article 28, says, each Member State shall ensure that one or more bodies in its area are responsible for the control of the application of this Directive. So it doesn't say anywhere that it has to be a necessary agency. The MOST has cared about keeping the promise made to citizens that order will be introduced into state services and many agencies and we will stand firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2190	Thank you. Next in line is Commissioner Maria Puh on behalf of the Croatian Liberal Democrats' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Rajkovich, dear colleagues and colleagues. The right to the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental rights of protection of the interests of each individual relating to the prevention, prevention and sanctioning of all types of abuse of personal data and is guaranteed by the regulations of the European Union and thus also by the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the protection of personal data is to actually protect the private life of citizens themselves. Although until recently it seemed that the abuse of personal data was only a fictional film story, real examples are unfortunately more and more so in the Republic of Croatia. In order to act preventively, a systematic and thorough education of all our citizens is needed so that they know how to protect themselves and how to remove possible abuses of their personal data. And I think it should be one of the great tasks of this agency. In this context, it is particularly important that the agency has its continuous action on all groups of companies and the report shows that there is an interest in getting acquainted with this topic and that the media have increased their personal data protection queries by as much as 50% compared to 2013. I hope that in the 2015 report we will also see an increase in communication with the public because unfortunately children in the earlier years come into contact with potential dangers on the Internet and people become more and more careless and vulnerable. I believe that each of us here received at least one e-mail or a message on social networks that a distant relative had left him a great inheritance and that he had to deliver his data so-called. A lawyer who will then take the necessary actions to transfer the inheritance. It may seem too naive to you now that people respond to such emails but we must bear in mind that people like to believe in the impossible and that due to lack of information, they fall into networks of potential frauds that are then used by their personal data, of course, at their own expense. In addition, every day we are covered with media signs of cyberbullying among children who are actually the most vulnerable group. The Internet, today it uses children as an extraordinary means of communication and learning but that is if it is used wisely and in controlled conditions. The Internet is now within reach of them and they can connect to it at any step and the most common way for it is, of course, today everyone has their smart phones that they carry with them and that are their small whole private world. Education and information especially for this age group is extremely important. Leonardo de Vinci Project Partnership Perception of data protection and privacy issues by children an youth whose preparation was also part of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has come up with worrying data related to the safety of children on the Internet. I quote: "Every other subject is not sure whether he alone manages the data he puts on the Internet and whether it remains published in their jurisdiction." More than a third of respondents tend to reveal their password and username to other persons. More than half of them online post their personal photos, videos, personal cell numbers, e-mail addresses, the name of the school they attend, etc. On the five surveyed, they put other people's personal data on the Internet without asking for their permission. The subjects themselves were in a situation of unwanted publication of personal data, so each tenth of them experienced inconveniences and insults in real life after virtual publication of personal data. Unfortunately, it is not a foreign or false representation, so they have experienced that someone represented themselves instead and imitated them on the Internet. We conclude from the above that the actual and virtual impact on the overall life of the subjects is evident. The alarming majority, as many as 92% are not familiar with the activities or educational activities for the protection of personal data and privacy on the Internet, do not know who they can contact in case of personal data violations and abuse of privacy. The underlying problem is that respondents do not perceive what all data violations represent, cause and involve at all, let alone the mechanisms of protection that we associate with the initial hypothesis of general non-awareness and lack of guidance of subjects in the importance of protecting personal data and privacy on the Internet.". I'm finishing the project quote. So as many as 92% of respondents are not aware of how they can protect their personal data and who they can contact in case their personal data are compromised. I think that's more than worrying. In fact, the Agency should target more of its resources towards education and information, especially the most vulnerable groups of our citizens, and these are children. But actually, even the agency's work itself won't be enough. All institutions, civil society and we ourselves must engage and warn ourselves about the dangers so that there are no new newspaper inscriptions on the tragic fate of children who did not know how to protect themselves. Unfortunately, we live in a semi virtual world where danger lurks on us at every turn, and only information and education can help us. I therefore welcome the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, both in the fields in which I have referred and in other aspects of their work, such as supervision, proposal and recommendations for improving the protection of personal data, the management of central registers, the implementation of administrative procedures, the granting of legal opinions and other activities related to the protection of personal data. Another interesting piece of information that I found in the report, which is that no solution by the agency has been annulled by administrative dispute. It tells me that people at the agency are professionally doing their job. The HNS Club supports the Agency's Personal Data Protection Report and will vote for the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2192	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is the distinguished representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2193	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed director of the agency, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for this individual debate for the reason that with a few sentences and my thoughts I would contribute and perhaps some of my views and recommendations for the future work of the agency. Although, in previous discussions, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mr Mlakar and the other two discussions have already said, most of which I agree with in full or in part. We can conclude, and from the personal life of the day, we know that the protection of personal data is extremely important and therefore the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is important and that we, as Parliament's representatives, as well as, as perhaps later, the executives of the government give the agency really good and complete conditions for good work, professional work and work in accordance with the law and in accordance with what society has hired them for. When the Personal Data Protection Act was passed in 2003, I must sincerely admit that among us as the leaders of personal personal data collections, there was a lack of surprise and dilemma about how we can even protect the data of our citizens today at the time of the communication revolution, the leak of all and all kinds of information, the daily theft of identity and the presence of the virtual world. In fact, there were even opinions that forming records of personal data collections and their enrolment in the single register would protect citizens from abuse and that leaders of the personal data collection would protect themselves from potentially unfounded lawsuits. However, the law is applied in practice, it has revived, implemented and has obtained good results. And this agency, which works mostly well, no matter how and how this report will be supported, has contributed. What I might suggest and point out for future work would mainly be relevant, although it is important that the agency deals with both statistics and analyses, to deal with individual complaints, or to respond to individual complaints, to strengthen this educational, informative work is seen from statistical data in the report strengthened in relation to the supervision of personal, personal data collection leaders. But what the colleague spoke of in the discussion in front of the HNS is also important for this educational work towards citizens, especially young people. There is a very great need for greater education for citizens, because we need to know how to protect and whom to address in the event of abuse. The agencies are most clearly open to citizens on the European Day for Personal Data Protection on January 28th even in terms of the promotion of personal data protection hired or appointed ambassadors who have the role of the promoter of privacy. I highly appreciate these people, I don't want them to be misunderstood, but I personally consider their work and their need to be very promotional and to be universal in the media and in the public with what it's meant to be. But if it makes any sense, then they would have to prove it more clearly and show us as citizens, or the public. Although it is said, it is never appropriate to stress the need to educate children, parents, teachers, breeders, or all those who are in the role of raising children, not only them but all of us society as a whole. Because the accelerated development of technology, the constant use of new technologies in communication, the use of social networks leads to the abuse of personal data, and young people are mostly victims because they are most curious, most often and universal on social networks, and we know that information in primary schools is an electoral object and children are very, very often on the Internet and in social networks, that is, in this virtual world. Citizens and we ourselves are very often conscious of our privacy when we give personal information. Painting and sharing photos of their family, facebook profiles are always an opportunity to come up with extensive abuses. So, caution is never a waste. Everything published on the Internet remains recorded in some kind of digital form permanently. Not to say that stealing identities, stealing accounts, financial abuses is possible because we also use online services when we buy, when we pay bills, when we make contracts, when we make deals, when we make meetings and much more. That is why I support the agency's work in the future from those initial steps when the law came into force, when the agency itself somehow seemed impossible, but progress was made. But unfortunately, abuse is growing. How and how we're going to end it, whether it's just a matter of agency or not, but given the legal powers you have to focus your work more in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2194	Thank you. The next debate is distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2195	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's something I want to say about the work of this agency, not just in 2014 because we're already in 2016, it's past 2015. It is an important agency that should protect our right to privacy so that our personal data, home addresses and everything else is not available in a way that is unfortunately today. However, where did the problem arise? The problem arose during the last government that approached the issue as well as many other issues in a way that was not appropriate. I have a fundamental doubt as to whether they were aware that this agency, through the leading people and through its work, was in the same state as it is today, or was it better for them to have ruled the agency in order? Can we use data equally when there is no order in the agency and who is who, who is the director, who is not or can be easier if there is order? I don't think that doubt should be too much. And that's why we're not surprised for the fifth month of last year. In one day, all politicians were targeted by the media because of the lack of property cards from the Commission's website for conflict of interest. And there's been a kind of affair, let's just say, where they started accusing each other of the agency on the one hand, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests on the other, who's guilty, who's to whom they've ordered and who's to act legally at such a time. The government to calm it down makes a decision and replaces the director and deputy of Ms. Dolenc and Mr. Rajkovac, submits a proposal for a decision to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is sitting and taking part. He's been discussing this problem all day. We spent the whole day discussing this, unitedly and amending the Law on Conflict of Interest and the replacement of two people. And when we finished the debate, the law was passed, parliamentary representatives tried on several occasions to ask the president of the Croatian Parliament to put the appointment to the vote. However, the former president said we will deal with it and unfortunately from the 5th month until the parliament's disbanding at the 9th month we failed to resolve it. And today we have a situation where the report is submitted to us by a director who we don't know what the status is. And I have already said that we have a second doubt, two leading people, and the agency has sued the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission, and for the reason that the government has attacked with their shift to the independence of the agency. What was said here in the Parliament? Just a few statements from the phonogram. Mr. Grbin, our colleague, was very convincing in explaining why the agency's directors should be replaced. He said they did not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia and must be removed. Comrade Bauk said it was the Parliament who resolved and who appointed us in the government that we did our job. We at the HDZ Club opposed such a way because there were no arguments under two names. Many of the points that we or the conclusions proposed by the chairman did not want to be appreciated if they did not have an explanation. But that's the government's decision. At that time, counterpart Linic said that the government wanted to recover the political damage that had taken place quickly, and counterpart Stazic concluded in the end that the government has always acted responsibly, consciously and in the public interest. It's just from a phonogram maybe the most important thing. How it ended here we see today. Consciously, responsibly and in the interest of the public. We have leaders we don't know are legal or not. However, we do not have much interest on the other hand in not discussing this because the problem is visible. Even though they were wrong, they came out the worst way possible. And what do we have today? Today we have a search for fascists, anti-fascists, and unfortunately all of these data may be available to those who should not be available. And here we are today in the opening part of where the problem could be, the famous APIS company – a public company. City of Zagreb and state social contract. Ratio 51 to 49. It's a company. a company known to have employed over 100 SDP members. And what's the agency supposed to do? The main question for you is, Director, did you protect Croatian citizens from the abuse of possible data since they received all data from voters in the company? How did they change social contracts within that company? Since someone who resigned as deputy mayor in 2012 could sign that the supervisory board's decisions would now no longer be reached unanimously but by most votes. What was going on in that public firm? These are some questions because I don't know if you are, but I did during the election campaign get to my address of the coalition program Croatia is growing. It was beautifully packed, one plastic package, all complex inside, name and last name, address, number of mail, even then candidate for Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic addressed everyone personally within the programme. When we discussed previous reports to the esteemed director and you weren't the first, there were others before you, the agency that changed three directors in 4 years. The fact is that the agency remains under the impression that there was no order and that no one was able to protect me from these and such attempts to deliver to me all possible printers of all possible trade chains, all possible political parties, and that our data is actually unprotected in the space. And that's your personal I mean the greatest task. How does that happen? Do you personally feel that it is possible that in this public enterprise someone has misused those lists they received and that someone is speaking to someone? If so, is it a crime? Did anyone use it unauthorized? So no matter what it says here in 2014 which is correct, you will specify your own activities, it will all be numbered, everything will be sublimated somehow, we will discuss here today but, as well as any report unfortunately, we have not witnessed the better work of this agency. And yet what we said may not be your biggest mistake, but the former government that left you in the room so you don't know what you are. And I'd like to hear what happened to the dispute that you have as a person, as a leading person of the agency and your colleague against the Republic of Croatia, at which stage is it going to end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2196	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague you've put out a lot of arguments about why, the question is why all the agencies like this are even serving these agencies, is the purpose of this agency that it even exists if there's more unprotected data than protected data, is it perhaps better to open another one to the agency if there's room for entanglement, so to protect against the protection of personal data. Anyway, here's what we're following up on all of this together, we've got loose security services, we've got APIS, we've got all kinds of agencies that we don't really know what they're doing and we're looking at the Ministry, and they're full, they're packed, and we're looking at the cabinets of ministers that are empty, so these certain resources within the ministry where projects are needed, people for projects are empty places. So it's all a lot where we can't control at all, and the government can control it. Here's a question for you personally. Are you that there are even these agencies? Do they need them, are they necessary? We think these agencies don't need them because they obviously don't serve anything unless they protect anything. It means that we can implement some reforms very quickly, because there are 15 days of agencies that don't make sense at all. A quick question. Do you think these agencies or most of these agencies need them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2198	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2199	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, I agree with you. This is one of the agencies that needs to be attached to whether it's going to be resolved to any other agency or ministry. But it shows uncertainty in the performance of its own work and its own tasks, and this report cannot show you that uncertainty. You'll get everything that's beautifully written, but in practice, what I've been saying is that we're not protected. You said the cabinets of ministers were empty, they were empty after this power left. They filled those cabinets in a strange way. They passed laws when they came to power so that the cabinets of ministers could hire employees without carrying out a public tender. And as the ministers went, some workers went, but not all, some managed to manage and remain within the state administration. So the intention that might have been right eventually went in the wrong direction. And there will really be a lot of surprises to come across in the next time, and these reports only show how this Bundesliga Croatian policy looked and how they often talked about here in the Parliament. They said they were Bundesliga. If the Bundesliga is that you have a deputy and director of the agency and you don't know if he's legal or not, then the question is, what's left of it? So this agency is mature for a merger I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2200	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Katalinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2201	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, reading the agency's report, I asked what these 28 people were doing? They're assigned to four services, they have four commissioners, but if you Google a little bit or try to find out on their pages what they're dealing with, it's actually hard to find that information. What I have managed to find, however, is what duties of the personal data protection officer exist at all. So this is what you have: take care of the legality of the processing of personal data in order to comply with the provisions of this law and other regulations governing the issue of personal data processing. The following warns the personal data collection manager of the need to apply personal data protection rules in case of planning and action that may affect privacy issues and the protection of personal data. The following, meets all persons employed in processing personal data with their legal obligations in order to protect personal data. The following, speeds to comply with the obligations laid down in Articles 14 and 17 of the Law. Furthermore, it enables the exercise of the rights of respondents referred to in Articles 19 and 20 of the Law and cooperates with the Personal Data Protection Agency in relation to the implementation of surveillance and data processing. As you can see, they take care, warn, know, care, enable, and cooperate. Actually, the question is, what are they even doing? What the name of the Personal Data Protection Agency itself should suggest is that they protect the data of our citizens. However, if this is their basic function then they do it very sloppyly because if you go online and just "googlate" your own name and name you will get a bunch of information about yourself that should be protected. Unfortunately, they are not protected and then it is also questionable that such an agency exists. The agency should first of all educate our citizens in how and how to protect themselves from leaving their own data mass on social networks. Education should be one of the basic functions of this agency, however it is not. If you're watching what they've done in the last year today, that's 21 opinions, that's 374 surveillance, which actually one person can certainly do in a year. They have 28 employees and according to the systematization they could even have 37. I would conclude in the end that the agency as such should not exist at all, that there are enough 5 to 6 people who can be inside one office, say an office at the Ministry of Administration or at the Ministry of Interior to do this same job and I am joining the conclusion of my colleagues from the Most Independent Lists that this agency should be abolished as such and along with a whole series of other agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2202	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2203	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here today, on several occasions, it's been said that the report is technically and meaningfully OK, so there's some form based on which these reports are submitted. But what we could hear here in previous discussions is whether those who sign that report really can. Obviously, the policy of those who tried until yesterday and hoped to know something about how something was done and water resulted in some of what we're talking about today. So we heard about the procedure, the government made decisions, it came to Parliament, it got lost somewhere in the halls, lost, and now we don't know whether we're halfway or you have the right to sign it. So it's about doubt. I wouldn't repeat myself about those whole-day debates, obviously it's some kind of birthright practice, so there's a lot of talk, a lot of noise, and there's a lot of attention from the important topics of the non-essential to get away from that topic that's not well and quality to say. There were words about administrative disputes. Well, administrative courts can undo it and order you to make it new or they can bring it in. So much for administrative disputes. This report is a report for 2014, obviously as in a series of past reports that someone has not done the part of the job he was in charge in time, but probably as we see the practice of some who should have done it before. Of course, it is a fundamental law, a law on the protection of personal data, and in this report you provide one analysis of procedures, measures, what is apparent to say that the Agency is an independent legal person. Well, now that we've heard everything we've heard, I'm not sure you've had complete freedom to function. So here I'm talking about an institution not individuals in an institution. On page 2 of your report, it is said that the basis of Article 34 of the Law is if you establish that the provisions of the law have been violated, then you have several options. As an agency, you have the right to warn or warn, by order to remove irregularities, temporarily prohibit collection, order erasure, prohibit the transfer of personal data, etc., from the Republic of Croatia etc., etc. So he says against the agency's solution no appeal is allowed but there can be an administrative dispute. So we know the duration of administrative disputes on average how long it takes, you're as far as I realize on these 10 to the 6 get answers. In addition to those measures, the Agency may propose to initiate criminal or criminal liability proceedings before the competent authorities. I have to admit, this report doesn't show me. I come from one, or I came from a system called the State Inspectorate, and then some who were in power yesterday, thank God they didn't anymore, the inspectorate disbanded. They couldn't understand that there were thousands of honest and high-quality people who worked 80 to 100 thousand oversights a year. So to learn something, it was about 400 to 500 thousand year-on-year controls. So when we talk about this part, why did I say that part? Because here I see you're doing surveillance, 374 surveillance, 186 at the request of the respondents, 2 surveillance on the third party's proposal and 186 surveillance was done on official duty. Why did I say this opening part? Because when you're in such a system, then you might be able to get someone on the third hand to try to direct the system on the basis of some kind of demand, and you're simply forced by law to answer that. So there's one thing you should be doing according to plan and program, and one thing is when someone outside tries to point you at a part that's not good and good. So it's beautifully defined as protecting personal data. Well, I think the most sacred thing is to have privacy and other human rights and fundamental freedoms. And of course we welcome in this part of Article 24 that says that anyone who thinks that he is injured has been guaranteed by the Law on the Protection of Personal Data the possibility of submitting a request and that's fine. That's probably good and that's right. And that's the part I say hello to. I don't understand when we're talking or when you're talking about accusing proposals, then you're saying that in this news agency, they're acting like they're bound by certain laws as far as possible, because otherwise, they're not in accordance with the law. It is therefore necessary to inform the authorised prosecutor before submitting the indictment to the competent court or to the other body of the infringement of the one intended to file that indictment. And here you're saying it's in the reporting period that you've made such six notifications. Does that mean there were only six violations you found, or was it something else? What's still stuck in my eye, so you're saying that certain funds are planned for a certain year in 2014 and that, if you hadn't spent 520, you'd be nearly 3,000 kuna. Now I ask you what's the reason? What does rationality mean in spending? Does that mean that it's not well planned at first or something about the strict nature of the job, I'm thinking out loud, is that why I'm asking you? You said that the most important activity of this agency was surveillance, so control whether someone was implementing the regulations and whether they were operating in accordance with those regulations as far as I could understand. And such a question as colleagues and findings from MOST is 28 employees today, 37 per systematization. Now I'm wondering if you didn't have a chance to see someone else or if there was something else going on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2204	Thank you. Right on the line, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mikulić, you mentioned that you were working at the inspectorate now called the agency, is it cancelled or not, but it turns out that it was better before when he was an inspectorate, now it's shut down, so there are no inspectorates, so that inspectorate wrote thousands of items, so maybe the inspector for the catering facility had a note about how high the chair was, so it would stop our businessmen, actually slow them down. So, the same thing we said at the MOST was called an inspectorate or an agency if he wasn't doing his job. So now it's not a matter of the number of cases, it's a function for our citizens, for economic operators to have, for what it's for, and not just to be used for entanglement and how many of these are processed. If the subjects are holding back the development of something and if they are serving these inspections or agencies themselves, they have no purpose, so it doesn't matter if this is called an inspection or an agency tomorrow. It is very important that there is no need to have so many people for what does not serve the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of economy, development. Thank you. That's what I said because you pointed out that it was much better before. Well, it's not like there's anything much better going on before or now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2206	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris. Excuse me, Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2207	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Bulj. So we're talking about two categories, that's the basic knowledge of the state administration system. One's the State Inspectorate, one's the agencies. I didn't say it was the inspector who was doing bad or good. I'm merely stating the fact that what was good was to disbanded during the former government. For information, you have an opportunity to report on the Internet about it, so you'll see who did what, and otherwise it was an institution and thank you for this replica because you gave me the opportunity to say that it was about monitoring the implementation of regulations and doing business. Otherwise there was an institution that had published on its website what awaits you when these employees of the State Inspectorate and Inspectors or senior inspectors come to you for supervision. We didn't deal with the height of the chair, we're the body that was implementing the regulations, that is, that control. So he was disbanded into six ministries completely illogically and poorly. And as for the number of people, then I'll tell you that in certain ministries where these inspections are attached, there has been a significant and unnecessary increase in the number of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2208	Thank you. Now I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we'll continue to discuss this item on the agenda. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2209	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have another individual discussion. The individual debate was also attended by distinguished representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2210	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. What I wanted to problem about the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data but also about all agencies operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are the material rights of employees of those agencies. Today, during the debate, we could hear that in the Republic of Croatia today there are 190 agencies and similar institutions that employ more than 20,000 employees and spend about 70 billion kunas of annual budget money. What I want to point out, and I've seen somewhere in the media that the current salary of Mr. Rapporteur is 22,960 a month. It is symptomatic that almost all reports of agencies that we could hear these days in the Assembly that in these agencies are employed by a very large number of executive personnel. So, when we talk about their systematizations and the rules on internal order, they are fully regulated without the government's intervention which establishes the agency and the Parliament that appoints and resolves their directors. These receipts, according to us from MOST, are completely out of line with the national average, and we believe that one thorough revision of the systematization of these companies is needed because they are clearly overstretched. Everyone swears on how they behave very rationally, how they are very modest in spending. We see in the reports that they have in their rules very many employees, that they work with reduced labour, that they are very effective. However, when we see that the salaries of employees are being spent almost 70% of the resources available in their agencies, let's say more than 20 employees in more than 10 are in management positions, then it's quite clear that these are manipulations. When we see what the salaries of the management staff are, then it's really devastating. We think that we should finally stop acting as good servants, and bad masters and simply break this practice, make one thorough revision of employment plans in all agencies and coefficients that should be equated with the real situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2211	Thank you. This is what we're done with. We have the final word, Mr. Antoine Rajkovich, director of the agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd like to take advantage of and say a few words from previous discussions. There were also representatives of clubs and individual ones, so I won't be long. First of all, I would like to thank you for your discussions and thank you for your comments and criticism, no matter how much they may be, for viewing them as negative, positive. Of course, they are always more positive and represent a kind of satisfactory of the work of all of us. I can't comment, and I don't have adequate information about why this report was not referred to by the government, why it is. But I would absolutely disagree that one of the reasons for the position or attitudes of this report is non-coordination with other bodies because this coordination goes on and on and on. And if, in that sense, we were thinking about this recent case, the affair, or whatever we could call with the Honorable Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, I'm going to say something about it at the very end. By someone from the MPs now that I would not accidentally make a mistake, there was a questionable amount of budgetary resources or not the cost of the budget plan for 2014. In fact, this is about having to mention although I didn't think I was the director of the agency since April 2014. So, I'm filing a report even for an incomplete year where I'm the manager. But it's not that important, I put up with last year and for 2013 where I wasn't physically present at all, but somehow it can be bridged and we're moving on, and that's it, right? I just wanted to say that the planned funds for 2014, of course they had to be planned before, essentially not spent for the reason because some of the funds somewhere in the amount of 530 thousand kuna were planned to employ several new employees in terms of filling the existing existing systematization. As a decision by the government of the Republic of Croatia actually limits the employment of new people, those funds that were planned on the basis of salaries, the expenditure on salaries was, of course, neutralised. I would add one more thing to the agency's budget otherwise, I believe you know, if it's not here by accident, the agency's fact-finding intelligence commissioner as a new body, the newly created body and the launch and launch of that body is actually separated from the agency's assets somewhere 1 million and 600 thousand kuna for that year. So there are now these doubts about the amounts themselves and the budget itself. As to whether or not there is an internal control is carried out, or whether an internal audit is carried out in the Agency itself, to be carried out. Each year, the Government's audit office conducts a business audit, gives its opinion on it. Here is the final opinion, quite positively related to business by the Government's Audit Office. He would absolutely agree and support all the allegations concerning increasing improvements and conditions and resources when it comes to education in particular of those vulnerabilities, young people, children and young people, in order to make it more responsible together with schools, educational institutions, parents, etc. emphasized and focused the need for responsibility on each individual and society as a whole when it comes to the protection of personal data in particular in the era here we all know the exposures, this much exposure of all individuals and society in all modern technologies. It is mentioned in one of the presentations but I would like to well-intentioned here apparently the respected Mr. MP did not include one whole or a personal data protection officer is not an agency official but an employee of the head of the collection and according to the law on the protection of personal data, the Head of Collections are all legal institutions, public authorities, legal persons all. And the responsibility for the protection of personal data within the framework of the work and operation of all these institutions or legal persons lies right now on the very head who determines officials who care about the protection of personal data. The Agency, as we have pointed out in the introduction, was founded to monitor the implementation of the protection of personal data. These officials shall be appointed by the Head of the Collection and its responsibilities shall be strictly prescribed in fact in Article 18a of the Personal Data Protection Act. Next noted, I think the honourable representative Boris mentioned the EU lawsuit on two occasions. I would just like to say that the agency did not file any charges against anyone, but, on the basis of that, it was on the basis of all those events that started long before the 4th of May asked the European Commission what it was, of course, obliged to report to the events. The European Commission, as far as we know, has asked the Government questions about the senseless shift of leaders, viewing it as essentially an attack on the independence of an independent body. The procedure is under way, I can't say anything further about it, I can't prejudge how it's going to end and what's going to happen. That's really impossible right now. Problems have been raised with regard to abuse, i.e. marketing, as well as in terms of political marketing, especially unwanted, which is actually happening at a time, before, during and immediately after the different choices that are happening with us and taking place. At that time, we receive an increased number of references from citizens to the agency and we resolve according to legal possibilities and according to regulations and we resolve in a way like any other items entering the Agency's competence and part-time work. I would like to say that, just before the last parliamentary elections, we have issued an appropriate set of recommendations in this regard, with a series of knowledge and previous experiences in agreement with the State Election Commission, and we have also issued an appropriate set of recommendations in this regard, meaning recommendations to all actors of the electoral process on the desirable behaviour of the next election promotion, which is regulated by the relevant laws and there is nothing disputed. Administrative disputes have also been problematicd. So, a relatively small number of administrative disputes we have and I really need to stress for now, according to all the data, we are successfully going through this story, although I must mention that not wanting to attack the dispute of courts but they are going on, simply these disputes are going on and for some of the solutions that we have made in 2014 and today they are not finished, they are started and the disputes are not finished. We never prejudge or polymize the decisions of the courts. He would agree that supervision is one of the most important functions, and indeed, as I have pointed out in the exhibition, that we are seeking to put the supervisory function fully into a proactive level by pursuing a plan of duty to one, according to one sectoral division, in financial, educational, any level of action, to carry out appropriate surveillance and according to the information we have and to determine the existence or absence of a threat to the protection of personal data. It was only a matter of six counts. I have to say that somehow for all years this part of the sanctions is essentially, the agency can't impose sanctions, but it can file indictments to the competent authorities, primarily to criminal courts, and in certain situations, if necessary, if there is any knowledge during work of suspicion of committing a criminal offence, it informs the police or the state's attorney. In relation to the charges, there were only 6 of them because this does not mean that there was no more offence, but this is the ultimate possibility that we are resorting to for the time being, even though we are seeking that those leaders of the collection who have disobeyed the order, or the solution or the legal order of the agency, be able to deliver the relevant proposals to the competent court in due time. That amount I was talking about, I connected it to those 28 employees. One of the questions that 28 people were doing was, and it seems to me that the honourable representative took into account only one sequence in the report on certain proposals, opinions, etc. It's very much to say it's conditionally speaking to the Agency's products every day, and I mean I definitely can't agree that people there are doing their job and every day very hard to believe under-capacitated but here it is, however, successful in meeting that legal obligation or the purpose of the existence of such an agency. And now I'd only be a short reference if I was allowed. It's a very troubled case from 2015, so here it's connected to this discussion, or this topic, but I think it should be said, and here I'm going to say it here, with that in order to emphasize from the moment that so-called the affair broke out in public, me personally or anyone from the agency of employees, executives, etc., no one, no political person, from the state system asked at least curtously and what happened. So neither oral nor written, nor anything, nothing, nothing. Well, that's my maybe answer to whether I'm as head of the agency legitimate or not. Well, the answer is next, I guess. No one has relieved me of my functions, which doesn't mean tomorrow won't be any different. But I mean, it's worth saying. So 4.5.2015. The Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest called a press conference, removed everything, so all reports or property cards by an Internet official claiming to be public, you can make sure that it does so because of the Agency's personal data protection solution, which is definitely not true. The mentioned statement and the removal of the cards resulted then indeed here I must honestly tell the intolerable media link, I felt amazing. Of course they didn't want to, and it's politically garnered, so that's what it looks like. Because I'm telling the agency they're completely unfoundedly imputed to certain stores and missing. First, she ordered the removal of property cards, which is notorious untrue, and there is evidence and all the materials. You can take a personal interest in looking freely at the Agency's pages, everything is transparent, all communication and towards the Croatian Parliament, according to clubs, according to all representatives, according to European representatives, our European representatives in the European Parliament. And so all the property cards, unfortunately, the commission has self-initiatedly removed. There's nothing to do with the agency. And the second, second charge, we can say it so says that the agency has ordered the hiding of officials' data which is also not true. By exercising its legal powers as early as February 2015, the Agency pointed to the Commission for failures in property cards. Immigrant property cards were incomplete, unequal, did not contain relevant data at all, I don't know from assets to other data. On the other hand, some contained private personal data which were not prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to be made public by that law. The Agency therefore tried to hold a meeting with the representatives of the commission and, in good faith, to point out the irregularities mentioned and when, at the end of this period, there was no legal argument from the Agency. Not one. On 20.4.2015, the Agency adopted a solution in accordance with the law. So the solution is perfectly legal as a legal act that we have similarly brought before and after. So a legal act against which it is possible to initiate an administrative dispute, the law says. However, instead of starting an administrative dispute, which is a completely legitimate story, the 4.5th conferences are called, all of this is with the claim that the eight-day period mentioned in the solution is corrected, at minimum amounts to correct these data, that it is insufficient, etc. And to publish property cards, so that the publication is in line with the agency's solution so that within 4 days after the agency means it will remove any link and responsibility for its removal, it will return them back to the Internet by adapting them to the Agency's solution. And despite the agency's decision to publish property cards, it was still irregular and incomplete since their initial announcement by the commission was inconsistencies with the law. That's why the solution was made. What else do you say about that? So, regardless of what happened then, it really seemed like I really didn't want to personally apostrophe anyone, but it was just like that, the attack on the agency itself, on the correct and fair work of the employees of the agency because such a solution brings professional services, I don't bring it personally and any individual. I sign him no? We bowed down, kept doing our job as normal as we try to do every day. By when, here we go. The legitimacy of the leaders in us is therefore not simply questionable because there has been no resolution. I'd just like to take a very short look at the merger, the attachment, the suspension, etc. Of course, we've grown up not so well we know about the media and all the electronics and so on. For a long time we've been talking about restrictions, suspensions, etc. Okay. free, we absolutely have no intention of obeying, or we have no intention of resisting decisions, especially decisions made by this House of Commons. However, I would like to stress that it is necessary to take good care of this initiative because simply joining, joining such an agency should not happen, connecting any other body, any ministry, because this would be a direct violation of Directive 95/46 of the European Community as well as of the 108 Council of Europe Convention signed by Croatia, ratified by which such a body and the very name of the agencies, although the name itself means nothing at all, can be understood and the office, can be called the Commission, can be called whatever it is now simply something else. So, conventions that are in fact an international contract and above national law. Well, not prejudge anything in advance, I'd like to thank you in the end for listening to me here, for listening to the opening discussion. It was precious to hear and think and criticize and to welcome you all once again and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2213	Here is the final review of the motionary, and we conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2214	Next item Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014. The report shall be submitted to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014 is not accepted. Please vote. The vote is over. 77 votes to four abstentions, 57 votes against. I find that the majority of votes have reached a conclusion, excuse me for not having reached a conclusion, forgive the contrary as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2215	Let's move on, the next item five is - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2015 is submitted by the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 15. The State Audit Office Act. The materials are published on the official website of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports were received at the session. Here, does the applicant's representative want to give an additional report? Here comes Mr. Ivan Klesic, chief state auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2216	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. First of all, allow me to warmly welcome you all and first of all congratulate you on your election for MPs in this House of Commons. According to the Law on the State Audit Office, the main state auditor reports to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the work of the office. A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2015 was submitted to the Parliament accordingly. The tasks of the office, the types of audit, the entities, the subject matter of the audit shall be determined by the annual programme and the work plan. The 2015 Work Plan included all entities for which the provisions of the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion are prescribed to carry out the audit each year, which are the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, and political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local units. In addition to these audits, only based on the established criteria, audits of the budgetary users of the state budget, audit of the budget of local units of non-profit organisations and companies, public institutions in culture, port administrations, and audits of the effectiveness of the funding of NGOs and national minority institutions, the management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia, the financing of construction and management of sports halls, public procurement in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, the prevention and detection of fraud in local units, the management of property owned by local units and the implementation of the tourism development strategy in the Republic of Croatia by 2020 have been planned. In addition, the office planned to carry out specific audit procedures to verify the performance of the tasks and recommendations given in the early audits, and to make an insight into financial reports both outside parliamentary political parties and members of local unit representative bodies. What have we done during this reporting period? We have carried out all planned audits in addition to the review of the effectiveness of the implementation of the Tourism Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia by 2020 and the revision of the efficiency of the management of the property owned by the local units under way. So we did 273 audits, of which 237 financial audits and 36 efficiency audits. The financial audit covers the state budget and its 18 users, the 86 budget of local units, 64 public institutions in culture, 16 other entities, 14 port administrations, 30 political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of local unit representative bodies. In 86 or 36.3% of financial audits, unconditional opinion was expressed, in 146 or 61.6% conditional and in 5 or 2.1% unfavourable opinion. Unfavourable opinion is expressed for the State Office for State Property Management, Croatian National Theatre Ivana pl. Zajca Rijeka, the County Luka Administration of Rab, the indigenous Croatian Peasant Party and the Bosniak Democratic Party of Croatia. The Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget for 2014 has been given a conditional opinion, and 4 unconditional, 13 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions are expressed on financial reports and on the business of budgetary users. The audit identified irregularities relating to planning, accounting and financial reporting, revenue and claims, expenditure, state property management, state guarantees, debt of the state budget and public procurement. In the audits for 86 local units, 18 unconditional and 68 conditional opinions were expressed. The audit identified irregularities in almost the same areas as the users of the state budget and related to planning, accounting operations, revenues and claims, expenditures and obligations, asset management and public procurement. Furthermore, over the past year we have included 16 other entities, namely 7 users of the state budget, 5 users of the budget of local units, 2 extra-profit users, 1 non-profit organisation and 1 company. Their financial statements and business statements are expressed in terms of 8 unconditional and 8 conditional opinions. As I have pointed out earlier, the office carried out 36 performance audits covering 125 entities during this reporting period. For the financing of NGOs' programmes and the formation of national minorities based on the audit of established facts, it has been assessed that it is not fully effective. For the management of structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia, it is estimated to be partially effective. The financing of the construction and management of the city sports hall in Varazdin, the sports hall of Arena Zagreb, the sports hall of Osijek, the sports hall of Žatika Poreč and the sports hall of Višnik Zadar are estimated to be partially effective while financing the construction and management of the sports and business centre of Lora Split is estimated to be ineffective. The Plinacro public procurement system has been assessed as effective. In the Financial Agency of the Central Clinical Depositary Society, it has been assessed as effective but there is a need for certain improvements while in companies HZ Cargo, HZ infrastructure and HZ passenger transport and the National Press it is estimated that the public procurement system is not effective and that significant improvements are needed. Regarding the review of efficiency, prevention and detection of fraud, the office estimated that 7 companies had undertaken the necessary activities to prevent and detect fraud. 84 companies have taken action to prevent and detect fraud in which certain improvements are needed and 15 companies have not taken the necessary activities and significant improvements are needed. In addition to financial audits and performance audits, the Office carried out, during this reporting period, a verification of the execution of the tasks and recommendations covering 406 entities for which an audit was carried out in earlier years. The verification found that 70.8% of orders and recommendations were executed or carried out, noting that in the last 5 years the percentage of execution was increased from 50% to 70% which is very good and that is what we are looking forward to in the State Audit. Furthermore, we have also made 141 insights into the financial reports for 40 extraparliamentary political parties and 101 members of the representative bodies of local units. All reports on audits carried out have been submitted to the Croatian Assembly and, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, are also published on the office's website. As in earlier years and during 2015, the office cooperated before, in progress and after an audit with the judicial and other state bodies. Documents and reports have been exchanged for 92 cases with the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Interior and courts. For the purpose of carrying out the audit, the office also collaborated with the National Election Commission. The international cooperation carried out by the office through exchange of views, experiences and professional literature is also important. I would particularly like to highlight cooperation with the European Court of Auditors. In January 2016, 269 jobs were filled to perform all the tasks of the central office and 20 district offices in the county headquarters. Of that number, 227 employees carry out audit tasks, 74 jobs are not completed because of the ban on employment and the departure of pensioners or other institutions. I have to point out in particular this is our big problem that in the next 2.5 years 27 people are going to retire, it's about really experienced auditors. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has expanded the scope of the office's work on the need for enhanced protection of the EU's financial interests and strengthening supervision of the implementation of fiscal policy measures and reform measures aimed at reducing the excessive deficit. The higher range of tasks requires strengthening the capacity of offices, which means increasing the number of employees with special skills and skills. In view of this and in line with the national reform programme for 2015 and the capacity-building plan of the State Audit Office, it is necessary to fill systematicised jobs to help achieve the general objective of the Office and to strengthen the protection of the financial interests of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. And in the end maybe just let me say a few words about the international activities of the office. Together with colleagues from the State Audit Poland we are doing a twing project in the Republic of Albania. Furthermore, two years ago we were appointed 1.5 and appointed to The Hague together with the State Audit of the Republic of Israel for the internal auditors of Eurostar. Two colleagues are members of the NATO Audit Committee, and one assistant chief state auditor served as president of the Eurocontrol Audit Committee until 12 months last year, so air traffic protection in Europe. And I must finally say one more thing, and that is that the European Court of Auditors has chosen the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia, which was added by the State Audit of Poland to carry out a parallel audit. This is the first time in the history of the European Court of Auditors that they are doing a single audit with a top state audit institution. So the choice has fallen on us, we are because of it, it is a great recognition for our office, but of course a great commitment and we are confident that we will also do it very professionally and qualityly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2217	Thank you. Does the applicant's representative, the board's sorry, want to take the floor? No, good. Then we open the debate. ... Well he was a gentleman always, ladies have the advantage. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The first one for discussion came from Mrs. Dear Zgrebec on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2218	Well, in these afternoons, we can have a little fun. Thank you, Vice President. The main state auditor with his associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues are constantly following the State Audit Office reports annually, and I must say that these are rare reports that receive high marks in the Croatian Parliament. In 2014 it was revised, as the 237 entities of the opinion given by the State Audit Office 36% are unconditional, 62% conditional and 2% still unfavourable. We estimate that we have a slow growth of individuals who are being audited and who are receiving unconditional opinions because in these 62% of the subjects who receive conditional opinions on a continuous scale of tens and more years, they get an equal rating, so little should be analysed in these entities, which affects that they cannot remove certain irregularities. In observed irregularities from year to year, one and the same is repeated, perhaps in a smaller volume in less audited entities but this still refers to planning, accounting business, financial reporting, income and expenditure records, asset management, guarantees, government debt and public procurement. And among some of those areas, we have special reports to discuss next week. In addition, the revision draws attention to insufficient control of the dedicated spending on subsidies, grants, aid for funding certain programmes and projects, which indicates that it is mostly carried out on the basis of the documentation available and that there is too little control on the ground, and I don't think that this should be taken into account in the future. In this report, the State Office finds the lack and slowness of state property records, although we have progress here as well as the revision of previous years when we did not have an established register, nor the management strategy, and practically the state did not know what property it had at all. In addition to its basic performance audit and revision, the State's Office is such as to review 36 in 2014 but it also works in other entities that are audited and does not indicate a specific performance review which is the most qualitative part of the audit, as it points to the economy and purpose of using public money. I think we are under-analyzing this particular segment of the State Audit Report because it should also be used as an experience for future work. In addition to the usual annual audits in 2014 the office also carried out a review of the prevention and detection of fraud in 106 companies owned by local units and there is a lot of bad results. In only 7 societies, it is concluded that all the necessary activities in this area are being undertaken. In 84 such societies there are insufficient activities and even 15 do not carry out any activities to prevent and detect fraud. A few words about the most frequent irregularities the office points to. The planning finds that there has been a change in the deadline for the adoption of the planning documents, for the adoption of budgetary regulations, which are prescribed by the Budget Law, and states that the guidelines for drawing up strategic plans for the strategy and government programmes for the three-year period and guidelines for economic and fiscal policy are. And as a result, there was a delay in the delivery of proposals for the financial plan of budgetary and extra-financial users. I would like to point out here that this is also the year when Croatia is in the system of excessive deficits and economic imbalances and when the government was obliged for the first time to draw up additional documents that were made at the beginning of the year and should be delivered to the European Commission. It refers to the Convergence Programme and the Government's Reform Programme. And we believe that it is well established in the report that good planning has a significant impact on the management of the liquidity of the state budget. In the case of accounting operations and financial reporting, the recording of income and expenditure according to the modified accounting principle is reassessed, i.e. liabilities are recorded at the beginning of, available revenue but not applied to all users, that the most frequent records of expenditure are by payment and in such a way are carried over in the following year. Sufficient measures are still not taken to collect certain claims. Especially here is the problem of concessions and the state office, and what we have been saying here in Parliament in the debates, once again, says that the office itself should also order the adoption of written procedures in order to balance the conduct. It seems, in fact, that in one part of this particular point of view, the comments made by the state office and related to accounting operations and planning, however, to the actual problem of the expertise of the administration working in the field and there may also be additional consultations in order to balance the work in, both in all ministries and in local communities. Furthermore, it is said about the management of state assets, I have already said that here is an unfavourable opinion, and above all that refers to the fact that the office points out the irregular division of the final balance sheet and the agency between DUDI and CERP, which was then a result and an unrealized position which can also be referred to them as the risk of the collection of income from the assets. So the opinion of the state office is that not all preconditions for effective management are secured. In the case of state guarantees, we no longer have those objections and the government debt that we do not have all the records, but it also points to certain shortcomings that need to be corrected in the next period. As for public procurement, 742 contracts worth 2.8 billion were revised. And here we see progress in the sense that there are no more of those basic observations about competitions and some of the problems that have occurred in previous reports. It is interesting for us to carry out our orders and recommendations because we had here according to the revised entities and we most notice because they were mainly not executed in a year even those that could be corrected in a few months. There's been significant progress in recent years. So, for example. In 2011, we still had 50% of the orders and recommendations that were not executed while it was in 2014. 30%. We're still estimating a lot, but progress is felt. We at the SDP club support the work of the State Audit Office, we will vote in favour of their reports, but we also join that warning given in the report that there is a need for highly skilled people who cannot be found on the free market, especially under the conditions provided by the state service that in one segment, part of the people will retire and that there is a need to make sure that these places are filled in on time. There, the SDP club will vote for the state audit report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2219	Thank you. We have one replica of this exhibit, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2220	Thank you, sir, Vice President. Dear colleagues Zgrebec, when we were in the Parliament, it seems to me that during 2013 the Law on State Property Management was passed, then a series was said by the ruling series of criticisms in the methodology and way of managing the state property they inherited. After the law was passed multiple times in the Parliament we heard from the Government that the register of state property was established, that an assessment of the property owned by the state was carried out and that practically the first time the state could and knows what property it had and what the value of that property was. We see from the State Audit Office's report that no register was established in 2014, no regulation on state property was adopted, no evaluation was carried out. So it's not in line with what the government's representatives said, so we can best say they weren't telling the truth. But it wasn't just the case in that year in 2014. This report shows that you can read for yourself that the regulation has not been passed until mid-2015, so I suppose it has not been adopted until today, nor has an assessment of the entire state property in charge of the Central State Office been carried out. I just wanted to point out that we have listened several times in this assembly from the ruling that the property, the state property at the disposal of the Central State Office, was spoken of as neither the sovereign nor the property owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, not only has the register not been established in the year for which the audit was carried out, but it is not the register or the assessment of the assets made today, but the government has done its mandate as it has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2221	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2222	And it's not entirely true what you said here that the State Office found out. He found that he did not have a register, but that he was not still in line with the law we passed. Therefore, the regulation was not adopted. So the law and regulation, the law was passed in 2013. The fact is, and it's true that for the first time we discussed the register, we had it here at the debate, we also had a State Property Management Strategy. I also estimate that the State Audit Office estimates that there is progress here despite the fact that they have given both an unfavourable opinion and certain observations precisely because we did not have a complete and less complete list of assets in the past years. We had one part of the property that was a consequence, the state property that was the result of privatisation and which was located in the Privatisation Fund, but it was also incomplete and we could never, with certainty, conclude that it was exactly the kind of property that was shown there. Therefore, I hope and appreciate that this will be taken into account by the State Office that in 2015 we will have more progress, and that behind this we will have a register and a way of managing state property under control.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2223	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by distinguished representative Goran Maric on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2224	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There's a double feeling in a man when he's got a report like this in front of him. It is one feeling of satisfaction that reports of extremely high quality have been made and another feeling of nausea due to findings found by the State Audit. We usually discuss reports. But the time should come to discuss the findings of the State Audit Office more seriously. I don't think there's been enough attention up until now. And the findings of the State Audit Office and the reports themselves are too valuable. I was one of the few seven, eight years ago who critically looked back on the work of the State Audit Office, and today I feel particularly pleased to be able to commend the work of the State Audit Office, because it is one of the few institutions that is constantly progressing, one of the few institutions that can be proud of the Republic of Croatia thanks to the dedicated professional and professional work of all in the State Audit Office. But it has to keep us busy and occupy our thoughts what the state office determines, what it finds and what it keeps quiet, forgets, doesn't present enough and doesn't seem to be of any use. And not that the finds are a scoreboard for the Republic of Croatia, the findings of the State Audit Office are an indication for the Republic of Croatia. No more serious decision regarding the budget of the State should be taken without systematic analysis of the State Audit Office's report, as it points to much. It's just the size of the job. 237 financial reports and suggest that the progress made by the beneficiaries of the budget is higher than the percentage of irregularities removed and the recommendations implemented. However, we cannot be satisfied that after 25 years we only have 36.3% of unconditional opinions, and even 61.6% of conditional opinions given the well-being and very mild criteria in assessing the State Audit Office. In this case, we have five negative, unfavourable opinions. It's worth mentioning. State Office for State Property Management, Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka, County Luka Management Rab, Autochton Croatian Peasant Party and Bosniak Democratic Party of Croatia. There is certainly more, given the two criteria and the value but also the criteria of the phenomenon could also have been assessed freely by the Ministry of Culture in a different way because there were phenomena there that should not occur. It's not about the value or the amount. It's about the occurrence. Such phenomena shouldn't have happened. The DUR's task is very complex and we keep repeating and hearing that they are not teamed up enough, that they lack the number of employees and that is why I hope and believe, and there has been a recommendation from the Committee on Finance and Budget to increase their budget item for their part of the budget and their work but the need and amendments to the Law on State Audit are imposed. If we give just a few notes when it comes to the revision of the state budget, then all the importance of the work of the State Audit Office will be seen, they determine. The public debt management strategy for 2011-2013 was adopted in early 2011. So, not during the previous government, but those governments before. And public debt in 2014 was managed without a strategy. That's what the State Audit says. Imagine such a amount of public debt, such a share of GDP, such growth, an explosion of public debt, and there is no Public Debt Management Strategy at all. That's what it says and doesn't cause any sense of responsibility. It further states that, without the application of the specific prescribed procurement procedures, goods worth more than 20 million kuna have been purchased. At local units, only two, three items. Says some local units have not completed the list of assets and liabilities. So we have local units that aren't, they don't have a list of obligations or assets. The expenditure shall not be recorded in the principle of occurrence but in cash over time. That anyone who has any understanding of accounting knows how far that's a deviation from normal procedure. The audit of public institutions in culture, institutions leased a business space without a public tender and without the consent of the founder or owner of the property. Some premises are used by tenants after the end of the contract. In the case of individual institutions, expenditure on copyright contracts and contracts for work has been achieved at almost equal amounts as well as expenditure on employees. So, it's the same amount for the works and the employees. It's a completely unnatural situation. Without applying the prescribed procurement procedures, only in culture was purchased goods and services worth more than 13 million kuna, nearly 14 million kuna without public debate. We even have at the time of the audit of the port's pearl administrations that certain port administrations are subject to the charges due in such a way that the port administration sets out monthly invoices on the basis of the reports delivered by shipowners containing the amount of the port tax charged but not the number of passengers and vehicles transported, as well as the total value of the tickets sold. The invoice, and there's no number of passengers, no number of tickets. And so year after year. And so our debt grows, our leaders the same, and our mistakes grow bigger and bigger. A few questions are raised for discussion. What's the role of the State Audit? What's the usefulness of the State Audit report? What is the point of discussing reports at all? Is there a need for a change of practice? For example, when discussing these issues, let's say they have an unfavourable opinion and so many irregularities identified in all the democratic countries of the world on the parent board, the leaders of these institutions are invited and must answer all the questions asked by the board members. And they don't come out of the meeting room, out of the meeting room until they answer, so it's been 12 hours. And we're discussing the State Audit Office on the board and there's no head of state office, no one to answer questions. We need to find a way to change that practice. That those who do not remove irregularities and do not respect the recommendations or find State audits that they must answer if not in a parliamentary debate then at the home working body, on the board, on all possible issues. And to be happy if they are commended but to be sweating if they have questions that are uncomfortable to answer. I've participated in several countries in such discussions, I've been an observer but we're far from it, but I think we need to change that practice. Because failures are the same for years and always the same story. There is no reason that after 25 years most state institutions do not receive unconditional opinion, there is no reason only if the leaders of people who are able, have sufficient knowledge and experience and have a proper relationship with what they manage. Here's the find of the State Audit even has the Ministry of Finance, but it didn't accept it. This is the Ministry of Finance's document, he says, "The state audit office in the audit reports warns of significant differences in the amount of material expenditure per employee, between budget users ranging from 20 thousand to 400 thousand." Same costs, material costs, telephone, energy, electricity, transportation. In one state institution, 20 grand per employee, in another 400 grand per employee. For example, the State Audit Office has 20,000 kunas of material costs per employee. But the State Office for State Property Management has 80,000 material costs per employee. Ninety-nine employees have eight million kunas and some agencies as many as 400 thousand. And the need for standardisation is imposed to establish standards for certain types of expenditure, which would be logical. And that's what the State Audit has been warning about for years, and here it is now in its official form, so it's time to listen to it. What DUUDI was doing so-called Duodi? Financial reports do not show their objective and true outcomes. So we actually have falsified financial reports when they objectively do not show business. They do not demonstrate either the true or the objective state of property and liabilities. Business is not in line with laws and regulations. Business books do not provide data on the real state of property managed by DUUDI which refers to shares and shares in the principal property, claims and the like. In DUUDI's business books, the value of shares and shares managed by DUUDI is 16.6 billion kuna less than in the register. Requests on the basis of an annual contract for the right of construction, the right of service or the lease of land are not charged or partially charged or not even recorded at all. So there's a claim based on the annual fee for the right of service or the lease of land, and then that claim is not recorded at all. The expenditure on intellectual services according to regulations must not exceed 2% of the total salary expenditure in DUUDI twice that 2% and no longer be 2 but 4.1%). Without public procurement in DUUDI, 1.5 million kuna was spent, the material costs of 8 million kuna, no claims from the sale of assets are recorded. DUUDI sells assets and does not record that there are claims based on the sale of that property. Not to mention giving consent to the fund and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to move to Xavier. What happened to the property on Xavier? Not to mention the National Journal and the findings of the State Audits in the National Journal, but when there are special reports that are coming next week and the HDZ Club is pleased with these reports and accepts reports, but they are finding something that discourages and we need to eliminate and we can only change access to state property and liability management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2225	Thank you, time. Thank you. We have six replicas at your hearing. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maric, after your presentation here, it's all clear. In essence, the State Audit Office is doing its job and we are here as parliamentary representatives i.e. In previous terms, you've always heard the same story and it's still been robbed, and they've always repeated the same ones that robbed DUDI, from state property, and basically nothing has been done and nothing has been solved. Here's the question of sanctions, does anyone have sanctions? What's the state's attorney's office doing? Is it selective and for whose benefit they work? Do they work in the interest of citizens who pay public service or work in the interest of those who rob the Croatian state? In fact, we here are the parliamentary representatives of those who will receive information, who have received the trust of the people so far, I speak so far, we have received this information and nothing. I personally as a parliamentary representative and I ask all of us the question made sense that we are listening and sitting here and still robbing the Croatian people? It's always the same story. The state audit does its part of the job, and the other institutions paid by the Croatian people continue to protect and rob Croatian people. So I'd ask you if there's any point in reporting like this in the future or if they don't need reports? Should you come here in front of the people i.e. before us fellows individually who have been identified in the findings of errors, i.e. Crimes and that they answer here to the people. At least that's if those in charge of persecuting them and protecting the public goods, when he's not doing it, and at least that's what the people are right to do, and we're Parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2227	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2228	I wouldn't doubt if it made any sense to discuss the reports, it certainly does. Which we'll only achieve if we don't discuss. But if we had to change practice, that's something that's in itself logical. So far the practice is unacceptable, socially unacceptable and harmful and we can only change it, no one else. And I will personally try to invite all those who are representatives of the entities audited in future to the home working bodies, reports were audited by the State Audit Office. So let's hear some answers to those questions. When you said what others were doing, so we have a case to prosecute some who abused the travel order, someone used a travel order that shouldn't have. And I'm not going in at all whether it's right or wrong because it's not part of my job or I want to. But if it says so for the Ministry of Economy, listen to what it says, no action has been taken to collect claims from entrepreneurs for unwarranted subsidies of 48 million kuna. Then I can't understand that these institutions are still. So someone wrongly gave subsidies and even those wrong ones are not the ones in charge who tried to pay them back. And the State Audit Office finds that, no action has been taken to collect claims from entrepreneurs for the unwarranted subsidies of 48 million kuna. Unintentional use of State aid funds to restructure the shipyard, that is a fact. No loan receipts amounting to 680 million kuna are planned. The receipts were bigger than planned for 671 million kuna. No claims have been made for the exploitation of mineral raw materials based on powerful judgments. So you have a court ruling that you've charged, that he's in your debt, and you don't even record those claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2229	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2230	Well, fellow Maric, you asked two questions in your debate. First, what is the role of the state audit and these reports in the first place, and might there be any chance that this might change somehow, given that we are having a debate with the Parliament in our report and then those who need to act do not act on any of the findings of the audit, or we do not know anything about it. You also mentioned two important entities that got a negative opinion. One is the Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka and the other is the Luka Administration Rab. When we look at what is happening in this Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka, I feel that the primary task of this theatre and its director is to deal with politics and then culture is a whole part of his activity. Although this finding doesn't go completely to him because this is 2014 and he came around at 9 months, but we'll see what happened in 2015. I remembered that director by one single statement because he is indeed primarily involved in politics and said that Yugoslavia and communism will one day return, that Croats are an imaginary nation and that democracy is a kind of evil. And we deal with people like that, we produce here every day also on the basis of such certain discussions and what's important goes past us. As you respond, let's say this director of the Rab Port Authority. He said this opinion of the revision was not very good for him that he would take the private company and then he would determine what the revision was actually meant to determine but I will talk about it when we have a special report on port administrations. So we have one behavior that's not serious and the DORH is the one that needs to give seriousness to this one report. And until she follows that report, nothing important will happen. Because it happens to you in Rijeka that the report is, say, negative, then the mayor of Rijeka says I give a conditional opinion to the review. And that's where the story ends. So the review that the mayor has a conditional opinion and he says here I am giving a conditional opinion to the audit and the story is over. And irregularities a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2231	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2232	Col. Boric, logically, it would be that at least those who have an unfavourable opinion under the regulation should adopt such a regulation that they are automatically resolved. He can't be somebody's principal if he has an unfavourable opinion. It can't be, and we already have, DUDI for a year still the same director and doing the damage again. I'll tell you what he's done in the last few days when he was. How the concession against the Coopers was awarded. You know how? The 99-year-old company that was founded 3 months after the tender was announced. So 3 months after the tender is published, the company is registered without any employee and is awarded a concession for 99 years. Do you know who owns this company? A company in Austria that also doesn't have a single employee. And you know who owns this company in Austria that doesn't have any employees? Another company in Austria owned by a Russian. And you know who owns this company? Someone connected to 3 companies in Croatia who owe a total of 150 million kuna to the Republic of Croatia. And such a Mr. Pejnovic gave a concession for 99 years. But we are the ones who have to do and find ways to never come to manage anything that's state-of-the-art in any form again. Because who has no knowledge, who has no experience, who has no human virtues, and who has an implanted relationship with the Homeland can't do anything, and when you talk about a theatre in Rijeka, that's one word of national shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2233	Thank you. It is next, the next replica, the distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2234	Thank you very much. Well, we could really talk about this problem all of a sudden, and at the same time today we're talking about a State Audit that's really doing its job right. But what we're talking about today has all the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it's the past government that closed its eyes to this kind of problem, which allowed the very kind of action that was condemned by the State Audit not to be solved and that was, in fact, behind all these people who are here today, called the ones that work in these institutions. Well, wasn't it just enough here for a respected colleague and colleagues I remember in the previous Parliament we asked for a report from Croatian television or as some people call it Radmanvision to deliver as a leading man here a certain documentation on personal incomes and several times this Parliament asked for it, and this same government didn't register it. She let him do whatever he wanted. So what makes you wonder is that in some state institutions where there is absolutely no responsibility and where the leaders of the past government sit in it and you wonder why we did not give confidence to former Interior Minister Ranko Stojić to lead the committee here in the Croatian Parliament. It was these institutions that followed people, sent to some people who were involved in the politics of their employees to put pressure on them, to make mobing, and not to mention other activities and dishonest actions. If this continues in the future, then this State Audit doesn't make any sense and it doesn't have to do what it's doing today, and it's doing it fair and square.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2235	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2236	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucic, I agree that he has the government's responsibilities, however, is even the highest responsibility in the government. But if you consider who the minister of the previous government was, and what's serious, I'll say the integral people and with integrity have SDP as an organization, and she chose ministers as if it were a youth action. Then no wonder the findings in the Environmental Protection Fund are in the ministry in case of a move to the Eurotower, so how much damage was done there. Exactly, the State Audit found out exactly how much damage was done to the state budget due to the move to Eurotower. At the price at which the eurotower ministry was leased, no one can rent it to anyone in Croatia, only you can pay it to the private. But no wonder when the state office rents for all its property for its real estate needs and pays a price of 14 euros per metre square, the State Office for State Property Management. And as for HRT, the director of HRT says he doesn't want to deliver anything to the Parliament because he doesn't respond to the Parliament. So who's the Parliament for him? So you know who he is? So Yugoslavia was shaking because of him, let alone, what about a Croatian Parliament? He says he's not even an official, because that says he's not an official. Who's the law to tell who's in charge? He says he's not in a conflict of interest, because who is the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest that it decides whether I'm in conflict of interest. I say I'm not in a conflict of interest. He's not even in conflict of interest, but unfortunately he's still the director and I don't know what's waiting for him, he should've already been replaced and set up V.D.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2237	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Maric, here is your pride to say so about this report and to thank this occasion and to Mr Klesic and his team for all that they are doing. In any case, commendable. I also share your opinion when you wonder what the role of the State Audit and the purpose of all these reports is when nothing to say so is happening, or the consequences are not. They don't respect each other as you yourself have said basic accounting principles, somewhere and it's always dangerous when we punish each other for the same things and let others do their job. I would disagree with you when you say that we need to replace all those who receive unconditional opinions, because that means that we should also replace the presidents of political parties and that we should replace the mayors and mayors, because they are also responsible for here's unconditional opinions in some municipalities. We know how both the chiefs and the presidents of political parties are elected, so we definitely couldn't change it ourselves. What I think is dangerous in our debates is when we generalize things, so if we don't like someone personally, then we put it under the unfavourable opinion of the State Audit, the Ministry of the Interior. Whoever is at his head has received an unconditional opinion for 2015 and we may like the former minister more or less, but the fact is that the revision of its opinion on the ministry's business has been given and we need to respect and appreciate it. We also talk all the time about state property management and we have now received a report unfavourable, but it is also a fact that we didn't have not only a management and availability strategy for state property, but that until recently we didn't even have a list of state assets, so the question is what was it that the revision could control and how.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2239	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2240	Comrade Tyrelly, of course, I think the mistake was an accident, a lapus, when you said unconditional opinions. I was talking about unfavorable opinions... But of course I don't mean the local leaders, but I mean the CEO of a local company, I don't mean the political party, but I mean HRT, DUDI, any state institution, any agency that has an unfavourable opinion, I mean the HNK in Rijeka, I mean such institutions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That it is unequivocal if it is unfavourable that such a leader cannot run any institution. As far as generalization is concerned, I never generalise, I specifically talked about every audited entity with specific data. As far as I'm concerned, I agree with you, the attitude towards the State Audit Office is that it is extremely excellent and professional individuals but who are in one way discriminated against. And I use this opportunity to highlight that discrimination. And the biggest discrimination concerns their salaries. When comparing the salaries of authorised auditors that all must go through, what qualifications they have and the constitutional category as well as others, then the head of the institution of another constitutional category has twice as much pay as the Head of the State Audit Office. Is that natural? It's not. Is it natural that the head of the sector or the director of a local self-government company who has an unfavourable opinion has a higher salary than the deputy state auditor? It's not. Oh, that's right. And we have to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2241	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned a review of the financial operations of port administrations, and you said that the county's Port Authority received an unfavourable opinion because of the poor financial operations of the port administration itself. I would refer to the work of another port administration, the Port Authority of Ploče, which was bypassed by the State Audit Office for the reason that he was 2 years earlier in that port administration and gave an unconditional opinion. And although the director of the port administration received unconditional opinion because of the excellent management of the port administration and a project of integration of trade and transport in Luce Ploče, which is financed by the World Bank's over 110m euros, it is being replaced and the director of the port administration who has succeeded within a year almost led it to late 20 months. But more or less that late this project 20 months than the state budget or port administration, which will also cost the state budget an additional cost of nearly 85 million kuna in a year and a half. So I would like to ask the State Audit Office that, if and if it is in the work plan of the State Audit Office, to visit the Port Authority of Ploče again, in particular from the point of view, I say that because of the unprofessional management of this project, it will be the port administration, and since the guarantee for this project has been given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the state budget, because of such project management of that port administration or the Republic of Croatia, the additional costs of 85 million kuna will be set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2243	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2244	Thank you very much. I agree with you that if the State Audit Office was audited a few years ago, and even in the previous all the audited reports, it does not mean that last or previous year it was the same. So we should also support the capacity of the State Audit Office, support the increase of the budget by only 5 million kuna for the State Audit Office so that it can function and capacitate itself to perform its function fully consciously, professionally, honestly and to be able to do all that is required of them. Unfortunately, or fortunately, we cannot influence the work plan of the State Audit Office but it would be good if all major users or where there are indications that it is not business as there is an indication in the Port Authority of the Panel and it is a common known thing that they have done there to fit into their plan and so institutions for which there are indications that irregularities have occurred in recent years. Which means if for 5 years it's been unconditional for me to come up and change business policy and it changes by bringing new directors and it changes everything immediately. It is therefore necessary to increase capacities and this is also a request from the European Commission that the State Audit Office must increase capacity in both human and financial terms in order to be able to perform its function. That's why we need to give them support, and we need to deal politically with the findings of the State Audit Office. Because they don't have the instruments for it, they determine what they find. True, how is it possible for the State Office to determine for one year that there are discrepancies in the list of assets, and for 4 years the State Office for the Management of State Property is unable to do what... The State Audit Office can do it in six months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2245	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Maric, you've made it very clear that the State Audit Office has done a good job and made it clear what's wrong. Although the small size of those who have received an unfavourable opinion is i.e. in the financial audit that was made, it's interesting what they are. This is the State Office for State Property Management, the Croatian National Theatre Ivan Noble Zajce Rijeka, the County Port Authority Rab, the Autohton Croatian Peasant Party and the Bosniak Democratic Party. In my opinion, you should get criminal charges for all such non-businesses that have caused such an unfavorable opinion. However, there are also those who have conditional opinions in the revision of the state budget and the state budget and its implementation have received a conditional opinion. The Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Environment and Nature, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and Tax Administration. And that's three quarters of the entire government with conditional opinions, with larger or smaller removals. And clearly it must be said that 30 users of the state budget, 30% of the state budget users did not listen to the state audit opinion of the last year and did not act on orders, and you should also be sanctioned. But I wanted to say that there is also what is disproportionate, which is an audit of the efficiency of the use of funds to NGOs and institutions, national minorities, and national minority councils. And there are certain removals, so some NGOs, institutions and national minorities, along with the annual reports on the implementation of the programme, submitted to the National Minorities Council a non-transparent, unsystematised documentation from which it was not possible to see where they spent the funds. I also suggest that these should also be sanctioned by the competent state authority or the state's attorney's office to consider how these were spent by state resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2247	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2248	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, you have listed only some entities who have had a conditional opinion and they are as many as 146. Most of them repeat the same irregularities and do not remove and accept suggestions and opinions of the State Audit Office. We can't even interfere with the State Audit Office criteria. But they have established standards that, for example, the deviations that seem greater than 2% to me only then can possibly be declared, an unfavourable opinion is given, but there is also a case of occurrence, that even the phenomenon affects the assessment. So I think it would be very acceptable for me to trace this statement of yours that all those entities audited who were objectively able to remove the irregularity and did not remove it to get an unfavourable opinion in the next reporting period because they did not carry out the State Audit Office's order. But the State Audit Office if it finds that he could remove and execute that warrant and he didn't want to then he can't get an unfavourable opinion. So the State Audit Office doesn't exist for him, he doesn't respect him, as if it's none of his business, and for years, even the Ministry of Culture has found that he didn't respect any of the recommendations and did not remove any irregularities, any irregularities. And the phenomena out there are like we're in some nightclub, not the Ministry of Culture. And they're still mad that it's an unfavourable opinion. That's why all those who keep repeating and advertising on orders, that's the order of the State Audit Office, have the grounds for obtaining an unfavourable opinion, but then there wouldn't be 146 with parole but maybe only 20, 30, and everything else would be unconditional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2249	Thank you. The following debate has been registered by the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Mr. Plesic and his associates. Here is the annual report of the State Audit Office for 2015 and after these discussions, I would first start with one finding. On one page of that report, there is also an assessment of the quality of the office and this assessment is given by the audit entities and the audit entities have assessed the work of the office with 4.71. And it's on the trail of all of this and here being discussed where we have one very, very high-quality material. It should also be seen in the context of all past years, so not only in the context of 2015 but in all past years and see that there is one progress. Because in the find of the State Office, there's something behind it that I'd say is an order, they say nicely a warrant and a recommendation, and obviously through all these years, we've made one significant progress here. Because next week we will have one 8 points relating to individual reports, I would take advantage of this opportunity and say a little more about the finding, which refers to the revision of the budget of the local self-government units. Of the 555 municipalities and towns, 556 of the City of Zagreb were, so the revision was made in 86 units of these 18 received unconditional opinion and 68 conditional. Of these 18 who have received unconditional opinion is one city and 17 municipalities. And the mayor of this city sits here with us, and the mayor of the municipality of Tompoevci is a resolute minister, a minister of economy and his municipality has received unconditional opinion. So it's on the trail of all those discussions that it really takes a little while to watch who's working. You can see a lot from this. What you can see is in the basic activity of our units of local self-government and this basic activity is closely related to a law called the Law on the Communist Economy, and then you can see how certain municipalities and cities implement this law. The same way I would look at what was found in the findings on the subject of business space. So when you see little business spaces, then you find that a lot of municipalities and cities and business spaces that they own when they rent, they don't do it the way they do it through a public tender, but they do it in other ways, and they don't also collect a certain fee. The same is the way it stands, and that the dwellings are due, or, say, the fees for the grave fees of certain municipalities, and the cities do not gather. But what's even more dramatic is that when it comes to municipal compensation, communal compensation is the sole income of a local self-government unit. And once a half-year or a year ago independent of this one revision together with the Association of Cities, we did one analysis, which means the income of the municipal income, in the budget of the units of local self-government. And then it turns out that out of 555 cities, 556 is always the City of Zagreb, since it has double status always and especially emphasized it, there are 12 municipalities that don't even collect their communal fee. And it turns out that the percentage of which is the municipal fee in the budget is the unit of local self-government ranging from some 2.3% to some 30%. Such 30%-ac% is the exception. But what's the rule, the rule is somewhere between 13 and 15%. And certainly such an analysis would be welcome in a future revision, or one future finding, to see exactly what certain municipalities and cities are doing because in the report of the state audit, it says that they do not collect the communal compensation properly, when the point of municipal compensation is increased not to write new solutions, when there is a change that they do not do the same. And when it comes to the Law on the Communist Economy, then there is another topic that is quite important and quite significant and that is equally determined and that is, the implementation of the municipal, therefore activities in the area of the municipal economy, that often give it to other legal and physical persons, that it is given without a public tender. That when the budget raises funds for the activities of the municipal economies not to follow the relevant programmes, it is certainly an interesting topic in all the audits relating to local self-government units because we must not forget that it is indeed an activity that is exclusively their own and the communal compensation is the income that is exclusively their own. And in the future, it will likely be exaggerated through the next revisions as well. I'm not going to look back on these other things because we still have 8 agenda points next week where we will individually have the opportunity to discuss certain things. However, I am taking this opportunity for something that is particularly highlighted in each report, and so it is highlighted in this report, and that is what our new ministers said at the first session of the government and that is the problem of public administration employment. So here we see that the filling of jobs, that around 20% of the jobs are not filled. But what you can see from this analysis is that 79% in the state office are women, that the average year is 48.4 and that about 50% of employees are over 50 years old. I'm giving myself the full right to talk about it because I'm in that group over 50 and I'm a woman. And that's one of the problems we all have in the future. These reports really require attention. And what we have today and that we can hire or I no longer, but my successor or others who do today, you can hire a new one for two people who retire, in the state administration no matter what level, whether we're talking about municipalities, cities, ministries, need fresh young blood. It takes young people and the effort that we all need together to make out of these reports other than reading them, what they did, except in this case we can read and evaluate how they... The state audit evaluated their work, which is 4.71 and it has always been translated 5's that we need to make the effort more pro-pulsory and allow the reports of agencies, ministries and those who come before this Parliament to really be the mark of all these changes that are happening in Europe and that are supposed to happen with us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I once again take the opportunity to really join this evaluation, which was evaluated by those assessed by the state audit. You can see a lot of things from this because other than what they give as something they really need to do, you can see it through a number of years of improvement, but you have to read and recommend it. When you turn it all together, then we'll all be able to say that we do this job much better and better. And so the HNS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2251	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Rose Vukovic, MOST.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2252	Vukovac, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As I come from the first municipality in Croatia, I want to share my experience with you in 2007. That is when I, like all the other locals, learned about all the problems that were happening in the municipality through the assembly session. We were looking at the parallel, so nothing concrete happened, my municipality still has no plumbing, no sewers, no public lighting, so many infrastructure projects that have not happened in other municipalities. But what I'm saying is that the chief kept that report like a snake's foot hidden from the public. In order for the matter to be worse, they only get a conditional opinion again in 2010, so they haven't removed anything from what the audit resented. So, in some ways it was the beginning of actually my wish, actually to deal with politics, that is, to remove everything that I did in a report that the State Audit Office found and published on the Internet to remove. I mean, so in 2013, when we changed the final power in that municipality, I'm talking specifically about the Municipality of Velika Kopanica, everything you resented in the municipality welcomed me. So they haven't solved anything. Neither was the communal compensation introduced, nor the grave compensation, nor any of what the review required of the municipality. Also these days, I am going to court as a responsible person in front of the municipality because of what was happening far back in 2005, sixth, seventh, etc. Not to mention that the Chief of Justice was forgiven by first-degree courts for his crimes for his age, for his lack of understanding of issues and things like that. Here I had to share with you my experience for a reason because I support the work of the State Audit Office and I really admire it, meaning everything you do. But I think it's not transparent enough that you should react far differently to what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2253	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2254	Thank you very much. I am very glad that the esteemed colleague who is the chief and the municipalities is truly invited by what I have said and said the problem she has in her community and certainly has many. But this is an opportunity for the next time a good work audit in your community to get to those fives that we all love.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2255	Thank you. Next, Mr. Honorable Representative Miro Bulj applied for the debate on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2256	Dear rapporteurs, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. MOST has created that Croatia will not be a hunting ground, so it will no longer be a hunting ground of various interests. That's why we formed this list mostly from local levels. So I commend this review report, the Audit Office, you've done your job very well. This report of yours shows how many failures and negative ones have been committed at all levels so far, how irresponsible behaviour has been for many economic operators and has no responsibility at all. You put it on paper, and that's why in front of the MOST, the MOST club, thank you. However, so as not to allow Croatia to continue to be a hunting ground for various groups, and that these reports pass exclusively as reports here we are talking about. It's a very small number of us, unfortunately colleagues and colleagues when it's a serious topic. And I'd like to ask Mr. Shucker to get serious. You had time to talk, too. I listened to you. Mr. Chairman! Stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[Adversity Sanader: Don't talk to individuals.]] I can't talk while she's yelling. That's right, of course. [[/Invader Sanader: O.K. You go ahead and don't talk to individuals.]] [[You can't hear it.]] No, I don't. It is found that numerous irregularities have been identified so that we do not repeat ourselves, i.e. MOST will ask that of all the entities that the gentlemen in the audit have led to come here before, which they have cited because of irregularities of all subjects means local self-government, regional self-government, where they act as local sheriffs, of those who ran projects of sports halls, which is proportionate to the crime of large scales or today is not clear why they are invested, so much resources and which is why the halls are not finished and who has been doing the budget or the calculation that they will be in the interest of the Croatian man in the future, while some environments have no halls but have no playground. Public procurement, port administrations, DUDI, our property of our people, the ones we chose here, how much money has gone to, who, how much property has unprotected, who's responsible for it? How many companies in the public local sector, various public institutions, public spaces are difficult to discuss at all, and I thank you again. The MOST advocates' club is unanimous and clear here. These reports do not make sense unless legislative regulations are amended, as reforms are implemented by one legislative regulation. And if all those who are listed here, I was just quoting them one number don't come here at least in front of us MPs and don't speak publicly, giving us answers and paying the people the bill and responsibility. This is where you ask the question of sanctions, sanctions. We've read this now, seen this. Crime ratios, indifference from local self-government I speak up, from local sheriffs who use it. Now imagine the amount of resources, the municipalities of 1000, the two inhabitants use vehicles over the week and over the weekend and chase their children and marenda. Now imagine a small community of how many there are, and now we're not going to spread further to local and regional self-government without any control, without anything. Getting into the DUDI state offices is hard. Why us? Because we're laymen. But what institutions like DORH do. I'm personally here standing before you four times raising a criminal record for the disappearance of money in 1991. And now these people are highly positioned tycoons very into jet sets of circles irrelevant to the salon or to the right or to the left, they're very expedient. But I didn't get an answer, here are the former governments, I see they're even laughing, the former governments that favored such people to allocate those funds. I know it's a little strange for those who've managed it so far. Well, look, I come from the neighborhood, all the companies are robbed. They were all state-owned. The people are hungry in these areas and the people are extinct from these areas. And you know why? Because these reports only passed here, and the institutions that are for persecution, institutions that should do their job like DORH did not do their job. And that is why the final MOST will support this report, but it will insist on it and demand that all those who are here come before the people, and that those who do not do their job both in the DORH and in the other institutions, the MUP or anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2257	Thank you. We have two replicas in this debate. The first is Honorable Representative Antun Vidakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I took advantage of the opportunity of a replica that might not even be called that, maybe this is my first performance marked by the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm still going to say what I'm about to say. First of all, I want to commend the work of the State Audit because I have great experience. In fact, I was the mayor for 16 years, and I think at least one 15 times was the State Audit in the city of Novska. It's not like that, but I was a fan of the audit for some of my unknown reasons. And here I find it incomprehensible that for these irregularities in the bodies at a higher level because we from the local level were always when we came to the ministries and we were thinking worse about how fantastic it works. These amounts, these irregularities trust me in local self-government units are far better. But I'll tell you one example. So someone was saying there's nothing you can do to the mayors, the mayors, etc. You got it! Here's my example. We're '99. For years we were users of one big loan and we had a big investment cycle that in a year we built 23 streets, a sports hall, kindergartens and not to speak, an extremely successful year we were the largest investment city in Sisak-Moslavina County without a doubt. The workers we had at the time did not take advantage of their vacation and at the request of the union I was suggested that those who did not take advantage of the vacation to receive an adequate reward for unused vacation. Everything was fine, everything was legal, but I paid off two days earlier. A criminal report has been filed against me So, the State Review whenever it wants, it means handing over to the State's Attorney's office and a criminal procedure is under way. [[Invader Sanader: Time, time.]] Thank God I'm free.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2259	Thank you. For the first show, you were a little too busy time, but it was signifying. Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2260	I didn't, unfortunately I didn't understand what my replica was in right now, but personally... Is he giving up a line to me or what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Chairman? Okay, great. I would say briefly, the local self-government depends a lot on it, unfortunately, in the Croatian society from which the government is in office, so at a higher level and lower. For example, in my county is one political option in power, and it distributes funds at lower levels, favouring certain meanings to its similar municipalities, most likely where there is no other political option. It's not fair and transparent. Now I don't know if that's the case with you. I'm sorry he's always breaking into some cities like this. Where I come from from Sinj, and we've always been in the opposite way, so we've always shared funds in political likeness. Now, I'm sorry, but I don't know if you have a case like that at local level or regionally, it's the same political option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2261	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2262	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Mr. Bull, two details. You were talking about halls, built halls. If you think of halls at national level then I can agree with you and this will be a special topic of debate. But if you think about local halls working from the local community budget, then it really refers to power and ability and, of course, the financial potential of a local community. You and I don't live far from each other, and we know that in our neighborhoods some local communities have managed to build sports halls in just 10 years of their own means, and some have failed to build a school or city gym in 20 years, and this really depends on the potential of a financial one, but trust me on the pragmaticity of making a budget at local levels. Secondly, you said that there was no point in doing these reports, but that you would be pushing for the completion of the legal frameworks. I absolutely agree that we should work on the work of legal frameworks but I will only tell you this in three terms at the office of the mayor of one of the cities' audits has been so many times and believe me that the revision is exactly the potential that in our local administration has pointed to some shortcomings that probably not knowingly but also unconsciously we have been doing but the review has informed us and told us what we need to fix. It's a matter of local administration to take this opinion seriously and take it seriously. There in local communities where the opinion of the review is not taken seriously there is really a revision and it is not necessary, but it is necessary to take seriously local and then all other institutions that are competent to implement the legality, positive laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2263	Thank you. Replication response, pardon Mr. Lovrinović's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2264	No, Mr. Vice President, as the session ends and I did not report in time, I would like only 30 seconds to ask you that I have received several messages on social networks that during our presentations selectively Dr. Marić, me, Mr. Sincic, that Croatian television was interrupting part of the program when questions and answers were important, so I ask you to contact either someone on Croatian television or to transfer this session to the right or to simply turn off the public, or to get a full picture, but not to censor us. Please find or you, do something that doesn't happen in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2265	Okay, thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2266	Thank you very much. Mr. Baban, this is about other halls that were of national importance, and many regions have lost not without a hall but without a playground like my Sinj and Cetinski region. Of course you did what you did in your city, you're talking about review, you've had clean accounts according to the audit report, but if we're going to be able to do the same thing about the halls, you're kind of lucky that it's at regional level. The county's political option in which you're in power. I know it well because I'm saying it from experience how my Sinj, my neighborhood, is bypassed. For which reasons, I am not saying that there is something of the authority's ability, but it has never been done in the way and model as you say it has been strictly done according to the criteria of some projects, some abilities, but unfortunately in Croatian society it continues, some regions develop exclusively in political likeness and some are thrown under the feet. And that's one of the worst criteria that can happen, which happened for the even development of all the ends in the Republic of Croatia I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2267	Thank you. Following an individual debate, the distinguished representative, Angelko Strick, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the report on the work of the State Audit for 2015 is transparent, clear, and truly quality. However, a few data related to the work itself and the organisation of the audit fell to my eye. The report shows that there are fewer financial audits from year to year. It is also evident that every five jobs in the State Audit Office are being reduced from one million kuna per year, and it is evident that every fifth post in the State Audit Office is incomplete. We have in 2011 that there were 527 financial audits. 2012 447, 2013 269, 2014. 245 a 2015. 237 and 5 years respectively, the number of financial audits was halved. It is also evident that from 2014 to 2017, or plans to reduce the amount for the work of the state audit by 4 million Kuna 149 thousand. In the State Audit Office, 343 seats have been systematised, 285 or only 68, or every fifth job is unfulfilled. When we talk about the revision of the budget of the local self-government units, I have given myself a little effort and studied what cities and municipalities and what party membership the mayors and the mayors of which the financial audit was carried out. So we have data that only 15.11% of the financial audit and 2015 were supervised in municipalities run by officials at the then ruling SDP, HNS, IDS. Only 15%, and 85% of municipalities and cities were covered by revision means from opposition parties, or if you want a concrete revision was carried out in 40 municipalities and cities run by HDZ officials, in 15 HSS, 8 independent, 5 IDS, 4 HNS, 4 SDPs, 4 SDSS, 3 HSP, 1 HDSSB, 1 HSLS and 1 unit of local self-government led by HSP Dr Ante Starcevic. Furthermore, when we talk about the revision of the budget of the local self-government units, we have the budget of the Varazdin County from which it will be spent in 25 years now listen well to 850 million kunas with secret contracts. The contracts are classified, council members cannot reach them unless they sign a declaration of confidentiality for PPP projects. The following paragraph 1 is added in those statements. "Employee and employee means anyone who comes into contact with that data and the county councilor is also agreed that part of the data consisting of an assessment, opinion, analysis, list, study and other documentation prepared by an employee or other employees is destroyed on request and that this destruction is written by the Ministry of the City and County. Who's authorized to ask anyone to destroy official records? Who can declare that one part of the cost of building schools and halls must be a military secret or I don't know what secret? Furthermore, in the event that an employee becomes legally obliged to disclose any of the data or by order of a court or other public-law body, the employee will immediately inform the ministry, the city, the county. For what? Which is why if the state's attorney's office, the police call someone, they have to notify someone. And, of course, it's all signed under full, moral, working-law, material and criminal responsibility. Furthermore, your report shows that in 2015 you submitted 92 reports with the corresponding documentation to the MUP, the courts and the DORH. Now I'm wondering if you as a state audit have any return, information that has taken place under this? In particular, the city of Varazdin, the national audit for 2012, claims that, without the prescribed public procurement procedure, services were purchased in this and that amount. The State audit referred that report to DORH and DORH, behold, miracles instead of acting the whole case is sent to the Ministry of Economy, in particular to the State Public Procurement Authority. Is it possible to verify whether this was the legal procedure for the State's audit to determine that public procurement is avoided and that the State's Attorney's office does not want to act but is sending it further through drawers to keep it safe? Furthermore, for this year, to make it a little easier for you, if you decide to come to Varazdin County, a free transport of pensioners and all persons over 65 years of age was introduced last year prior to the election. The Varazdin County project didn't cost one lip. Now the question is who paid for the transportation of pensioners and all persons over 65 years of age and how much will it cost to taxpayers in some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2269	Thank you. We have the next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2270	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished auditors. Since the Financial Committee accepted the State Audit Office's report, we see that the work of the State Audit Office was evaluated by all the entities in '14 with a high score of 4.71, which is an exceptional progress. This tells us that state-audited entities are increasingly satisfied with the revision and are increasingly eager for audits to come to them. This state review is not as quiet as the taboo topic used to be 10 years ago as the mayors, senior mayors, when the review was a pain in the ass and blocked the work of local self-government units especially small where there was one volunteer chief, head and communal, no colleagues of Bulja, so I'm sorry that all the mayors and mayors call the sheriffs because I think a lot of them are very hard and committed to doing their job. It was difficult to work in such situations where 3.4 months of public audit blocked the work of such small units of local self-government but it changed. This has been changed over the past few years, and now the revision takes the documents and then asks for a supplement. On behalf of the team of small units of local self-government allow me to give you a few sentences. In fact, these small municipalities do not have professional services, so often the audit office was used for the so-called so-called so-called office. preventive opinions and consultations on some marginal or delicate situations and issues. Small units of local self-government, municipalities and cities that do not have large budgets do not have the means to pay for expertise. And then it happened that the review didn't give a preventive opinion or any opinion or happened that of the three different auditors for the same problem you got three different opinions. This is inadmissible, this must not happen since it is highly certified economic experts. And these criteria, your criteria should be as uniform as possible and as standardized. Furthermore, auditors should be in a disposition for instructions, especially such small municipalities that do not have employees, rather than deny them such assistance. And then when they come to the audit in a few months or a year, then they know the answers to all the questions. It is not good beyond that, nor if the revision in one unit of local self-government grants the same irregularities unconditionally and in another conditional opinion. I hope that's not the reason for who's in power in one unit of local self-government and who's in the state. That's what I'm going to back up. It was the Varazdin County. But I believe that those times behind us and the Office of Audit are now working much more transparently and much better than they have been in recent years. And we both need to raise our hands for a regular review... the units of local self-government and companies owned by them because the entities of the audit now want it because the revision is now a corrective one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially in small units of local self-government, the revision should primarily be advisory and only then corrective. That's my opinion, I have the right to say it. The experienced auditor sees continuity in the work of the subject by means of a depth recording, so that the relapsing entities should be monitored more frequently and, of course, give them an unfavourable opinion not conditionally, especially those who do not carry out the tasks and recommendations and then insist that the DORH act according to these recommendations. In the last five years, the number of recommendations and warrants has been steadily increasing, which fully justifys the work of the Audit Office as well as the the thesis that the entities are now seeking a revision. It is not good that the percentage of conditional opinions remains extremely high 61% after 25 years of democracy as well as the possibility that in 2015 we are even talking about 2% of unfavourable opinions. Therefore, it is very important to maintain the continuity of the audit supervision of local self-government units as it has been every other year, and re-advisers are often not given to a significant lack of funds or the number of auditors these supervisions have been increasingly reducing, especially since we see the Audit Office spending its financial resources very rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2271	This concludes the debate for today's agenda, this last item of the agenda. We will continue tomorrow morning at 10.00 hours and there will be a vote at 10.00 hours and some additions to the agenda. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 5:13 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-11-0.u2272	The following is the 2015 report on the work of the State Audit Office. For 2014 probably a year? Or 2015? Or 2015, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: 2015.]] Let's check it out. For 2015, exactly. The report shall be submitted to the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2015. a year." Please vote. The vote is over. 137 votes to one abstention. I find that most votes have concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, we have completed our work this week. I am scheduled to continue the session for Wednesday 17 February at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda report on the financial audit of public institutions in culture. One notice also, closed session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, would be held on Friday at 11.00 at the Janko Draskovic Hall on the 2nd floor. I wish you all a good weekend! The next point we agreed on is: - Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Representative Peđa Grbin. In accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without discussion. I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in the text as established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You have the text in front of you. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 127, now a little less, present, 74 for, 53 abstention. I therefore find that most votes accept the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
