ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4772	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, fellow ministers and guests. Before you is the State budget for 2016, the first in a series of strategic documents of this government. He is the result of the extraordinary efforts of the entire government, and I would especially like to thank Minister Maric and congratulate all ministers for successfully delivering such a complex task in such a short time. The budget comes in a moment that is extremely difficult for the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, because of the accumulated problems we haven't dealt with in years, our credit rating was reduced again last week. This shows that 2016 for the Republic of Croatia is a turning point. And our commitment to future generations is that last chance and take advantage. This government has a four-year economic plan whose budget is only the first step. In fact, we are achieving three important goals. For the first time in eight years we reduce the deficit below 3% of GDP, the second we stabilise public debt and the third we do not endanger economic growth. The total revenues of the state budget in 2016 were projected at €114.9 billion, representing a growth of 4.7%. They are determined by speeding up economic activity without introducing new taxes, and by increasing revenues from EU funds. The total expenditure of the state budget was projected at €122.4 billion. It's for 3.8 billion kuna more than in 2015. However, the total expenditure financed from sources affecting the deficit at the level of execution for 2015. In other words, we've frozen state spending. Growth stems exclusively from expenditure related to the exploitation of European funds, and expenditure on financing of own and dedicated revenues. To achieve this, savings amounting to €2.5 billion were needed, as some expenditures necessarily increased as pensions, past work benefits, EU budget contributions, interest expenditures and so on. However, the government will not stop at these 2.5 billion kuna savings in 2016. It is only a good start and a sign that we will continue to look for additional space for rationalisation in all ministries. However, a second and much more important step other than the budget itself is a package of long-term delayed structural reforms that represent a real and long-term economic shift. It consists of a series of short and long-term measures that will speed up economic growth and raise citizens' standards. The priorities of the reform package are primarily in areas such as public finances management, health care, labour market, public administration, improving the investment climate and reducing the burden on businesses, as well as increasing the absorption of EU funds, and with a more detailed plan, the government will soon get to know the public. I would particularly like to highlight here those measures directly relating to budgetary issues. This is how important measures are in the management of public finances where we will strengthen the Fiscal Responsibility Act and bring it into line with EU rights. All those who run the country will have to be more fiscally responsible. Also, in its principle, the government is determined to continue to provide citizens with quality and available health care. But that can't be an excuse to tolerate the financial problems that exist in the system and that have been a huge burden on the budget for years. The last in a series of health system recoverys weighs billions of kunas clearly shows that this practice must be stopped. Equally, the existence of our pensioners for this government is not just a phrase. In this budget, we have found additional funding for pensions and can say that the necessary changes in the pension system will go in the direction of enabling and not detimising those who want to work. However, as much as the government has tried to solve budgetary problems, it will never succeed unless we all change our attitude towards those who fill the budget, entrepreneurs and workers together. We must become their partner and tirelessly remove all obstacles that stand in the way of their idea, initiative and innovation. The parliamentary majority supporting the work of the reform government has been given a generational mandate to make changes in this society. The changes we have been resisting for too long and that we have delayed too long, which is why today the very foundations of our society are shaken. The government has a clear idea of what and how to do and we will be the ones who will lead these changes, give vision, direction and pace. But we can't do it alone. I therefore call on all coalition partners and all other members of this House, social partners in social dialogue and citizens of Croatia to assume their share of responsibility to support us and to help us change Croatia. I therefore propose that respected MPs and MPs accept the first step in this process, which is the 2016 Budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4773	Thank you very much. The respected finance minister, Mr Zdravko Maric, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4774	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me at the end of one sentence. I've been taught that it's not good to start making excuses, but let me in this esteemed House apologize for this little delay. I was at the Assembly Committee on War Veterans this morning, and we were discussing the Attorney's Department's Budget. That's why I'm late. After the speech of our prime minister, which I am sure, despite the differences, I think that we will all agree was really good and state-owned and in some way clear message of what the Government is planning and doing, i.e. it wants to do both within this budget and within the overall mandate, let me say a few words from the perspective of the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance, so what we very often say and we say a colder view of the budget, those figures or to say something about the framework that we had and which we put before us when planning and drawing up this year's budget. So, as for that part of macroeconomic assumptions, so the assumptions we went to budget planning after 6 years of recession and cumulative decline of over 12% of real GDP in Croatia have economic growth. He's not tall, he's not big, and I think there's a big challenge in front of all of us, and I would certainly say that it's one of the key if not key to say the priority and the challenge of how and how to stimulate this economic growth and raise the potential of the Croatian economy. For this year we went with the assumption or assumption of budgeting on economic growth of 2%, which is in line with the assumptions that some of both domestic and international relevant institutions have been doing. Of course, I would first and foremost single out the European Commission and certainly there are always certain to say the difference in certain assumptions. But let's also be aware and let's be honest that there are certain risks. In this case, first of all, I would say external factors, meaning factors that we in Croatia can't influence well, but there are also those of course we can and will do everything we can to ensure that this projection is realized or that these assumptions on which we've built the budget are implemented and implemented. In parallel, let me say that with these assumptions we went to planning the revenue side of the budget. Since this is usually a good practice of the Ministry of Finance and all those who are responsible for the budget, we have given or taken a more conservative approach to budget revenue planning. This year's total revenue plan is €114.9 billion. If we compare it to the preliminary execution of the previous year in 2015 it is a growth of 4.7% to which you will surely say that it is not exactly in line with what I said earlier that we have a conservative approach in planning revenue. However, let me say that the largest part of this leap in terms of revenue growth, so what has contributed most to that high growth rate comes from one I would say from the point of stasis of the process of planning this budget and the budget itself, which is the usability of European funds. If we look at only tax revenues, they are planned at a total of 68.9 billion, which is 1.4%, respectively, compared to the pardon 1.2% increase compared to the preliminary execution of the previous year. In it, of course, we have taken existing tax regulations, which are currently in force. I think we have given a very clear message that this year, apart from compliance with the directives and regulation of the European Union, we will not send any additional proposals to this esteemed House that will have implications for the tax system this year. We will use this year for a thorough revision, modeling, analysis to come with one whole solution and in some ways make the tax system fiscally sustainable and on the other hand as stimulating, both for economic, entrepreneurial, investment activity and for Croatian citizens. On the other hand, this year's contributions are planned to total 22.1 billion kuna, which is, if you compare with preliminary execution, a reduction of 3%, 3.2%, above all, because last year we had a one-time effect of transferring part of pension contributions from the second to the first pillar. However, if we exclude this planned contribution, they are in line with macroeconomic projections. As far as aid is concerned, most of all already in the mention of what you heard from the prime minister and what I was saying at the outset, therefore, as a result of the planning of a truly greater use of European aid, they are planned totalling 9.7 billion kuna. And allow me ladies and gentlemen to say the same thing, or a few sentences about European funds. Of course I'm sure of the discussion and your comments and in some way suggestions that we were ambitious and too ambitious. We think this is real, or that we can do it. However, what is extremely important for the mention of European funds, I think that we have one real step here, that we are not just looking at the funds and helping the European Union to finance just and exclusively infrastructure projects. Of course there will be in this year's budget. And the rail roads and the roads, and the waste management, and the water management. However, what we are especially, I will not just say proud of what we really need to put into focus is the usability of European funds or European funds both for stimulating and lending sectors and segments of small and medium entrepreneurship, cultural centres, cultural heritage, scientific research centres, and that I do not now list in the agricultural segment a whole series of parts that should certainly be used better than projects in irrigation, etc.. And finally, other revenues are planned at 14.2 billion kuna, which is 1.8% growth. So we created a framework in terms of the revenue side of the budget that we repeat once again realistically and in part and conservatively planned to come forward between the other and the dissipating side of the budget. You heard a little while ago we set ourselves a task, in a way and a course for this year's budget to preliminaryly execute last year in terms of expenditure from so-called expenditure. We do not increase what creates a deficit. However, taking into account certain items of expenditure, which are partly by means of a certain automation, which, according to certain obligations previously undertaken, must be implemented and all together in a total amount of just over 2.5 billion kuna. We were tasked with practically coming here in a month and a half to find ways and opportunities to and in what way these 2.5 billion back to say so, or go back to the initial level we set ourselves as a direction, which is freezing the nominal level of expenditure from these general sources. And I think that in that part of what we've already publicly communicated, let me also say here the salaries in the state public administration and pensions to Croatian defenders are the only two items that are not touched, although on one and the other, even slight increases in salaries for those known 0.5% for past work and we included 400 million increases for indexing pensions. At the same time, let me say that the expenditure side of the budget is certain that we have been guided by the principles not only of the current short-term savings but also of the structural progress and structural reforms that we have undertaken in this year as well as by the effects and implications of the budgets that follow. When we add it all together and subtract, the revenue side of the budget of 114.9 and the expenditure side of the budget totaling 122.4 billion kuna, the government budget deficit we are planning for this year, is 7.5 billion kuna, which is in translation with the projected gross domestic product of 2.2%. I'd just like to repeat that this is the lowest planned deficit since the pre-crisis of 2008. If we add whether in front of you in the benches and for today's debate, of course, and the financial plans of 6 extra budget funds, which, according to the national methodology and methodology, is in accordance with the Budget Act, we take into account the general government. When we take them and also units of local and regional governments, so-called regional self-government. The local state we come to the total deficit of the general government of 9.2 billion kuna, which is 2.7% of GDP. And yet another element, I think I can say for this speaker, so we will certainly try for the next budget of this national methodology as close as possible to the European ESA 2010 methodology, which requires us to include some other institutions and entities in the general state. However, when we apply that methodology, we are still within these famous master 3% of GDP for this year. And I think that, among other things, is a strong message from this year's budget that we want to make a strong contribution through fiscal consolidation, bringing the deficit to below 3% for this year. Not only the stabilisation and the activation of state assets and the reduction of the share of public debt in GDP, we also want to take an additional step to make a step out of the EU and the European Commission's perspective towards getting out of the excessive deficit process, to get out of a group of countries characterised by the largest macro-economic imbalances, and from the perspective I would say both domestic and international public and send a clear message that this fiscal consolidation that we are planning to do is to stabilise public finances, improve above all, I would say first stabilization, and then improve credit rating, and ultimately create opportunities for the business sector, entrepreneurship and Croatian citizens and society as a whole, of course, and this is the growth of investment of total employment activities. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4775	Thank you very much. At the presentation of the Prime Minister, Mr. Oreshkovic, we have one replica of the distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4776	Dear Prime Minister, you said this budget offers vision, direction and pace. What we couldn't read in the budget is neither vision nor direction nor pace. You didn't say, you couldn't read it. You mentioned where you should manage better, but you didn't say how. You mentioned health care, public administration, an increase in the investment climate, so all those old stories we've been hearing all along. But there hasn't been any concrete project on how you're going to realize it. I'll remind you that two months have passed since the formation of the government. We've never seen a single ministry program before. We haven't seen a single path to the future in a single Croatian society. So we have neither seen any plan nor can it be read from this budget. But what we saw, we saw that he was trying to get under police control, we saw that he was trying to get under the control of the Secret Service, we saw that he was trying to put HRT under control. So, the media and the repressive apparatus. What we haven't seen, we haven't seen in a single letter. So we saw only shifts and what the Croatian public absolutely cares about is how you will implement reforms when they are lost somewhere along the way. So there's no analysis. I wish in this budget you'd at least offered some projects to move forward with these reforms you've been talking about. However, they were left behind. And in the end, I'm going to say what my colleague Maric actually said was proud of the budget. So now it's a start. You've been two months since the formation. You can be proud, but you shouldn't be proud at first. You can be proud of the results. And I don't think you're proud of lowering the country's credit rating. Therefore, I would ask you and the entire Croatian public would be interested in offering a vision, a direction and a pace in this budget and in this planning unfortunately lagging behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4777	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4778	Here's to short. I think it's clear to all of us before I took this honorable position as prime minister, that we had the opportunity to meet with the investor at first, so I can hear what are the biggest challenges ahead of us. I think and we've all heard that and only these agencies have confirmed it. There's debt, growth, deficit. Because we're looking at our top priorities, that's you. When you say we have no reforms, there were two weeks ago the Vice-President of the European Commission in Croatia, he communicated very clearly with us, and this government is well aware of the former who were priorities and what we have or have not met. Within a month and a half, this government has submitted a budget and provided concrete reforms that we have submitted, I can tell the European Commission which have given us support. So I think it's very clear here, if it shouldn't be clear to everyone that in the short term we've written out opportunities to have correct measures. And I think the European Commission, which may have long been waiting for some concrete results, has received some concrete reforms from us that have given us support. So because I think it's just one indicator, that what this government has provided and in what direction we're going to get the European Commission to see it. And I am convinced that citizens will see the same thing, these are concrete, good goals, and that through these goals we will increase our rating and that we only have one small indicator to raise the rating. That might mean something to you, then it will be, we'll pay the interest rate five percent less. A point five percent to save is 1.5 billion kuna. With 1.5 billion kuna savings in interest I think we can do a lot more work and invest in other programmes for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4779	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the first representative, Zoran Milanovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4780	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs and parliamentary deputies, you invited us to accept the government's budget. We can't do that a few times. In fact, the government's budget does not exist, there is a Croatian state budget. It's also difficult to accept, but it's purely the methodology I'm warning you about. So there is no budget of the Croatian government, there has never been one. There is an item for the Croatian government. Yeah, we dropped our credit rating. And now I'm supposed to gloat about it. When we formed the government, we initially had a credit rating that was never god knows what and which we inherited as we inherited did not fall. But if we're gonna be responsible, we're gonna talk about other things. So neither will we enjoy the fact that Croatia has fallen credit rating, because by the credit rating agency's position for seven years no one has been holding too seriously. That's what I can tell you as my attitude and as my comfort. Because if that were the case, then interest rates would not fall as they fall on government debt, including Croatia. So today we're in charge of significantly, significantly cheaper or less expensive than 4 years or 5 years ago and all other countries. When we took over Italy had ten annual bonds, the interest had to pay 11%. Now I don't know 0.5%. Croatia 3%. It's still much, much more than our growth. Let 0.1% more expensive debt by the Croatian state to finance the generated interest increase in consumption, this is not sustainable in the long term. That is to say, whether in opposition or in power. We keep mentioning the European Commission. Let's relax a little. We negotiated with the European Commission, never looked them in the eyes and lied but we worked at the end of the story according to our own. And if we hadn't done that, if we hadn't kept certain social categories, and hadn't hit the aggregate demand by cutting wages, pensions and everything they asked us to do, then the growth of the last five quarters wouldn't have happened. And you wouldn't be able to talk this optimistic about the things you're putting on our table right now. I don't even personally or emotionally experience that you didn't mention in any word what the previous government left you, and that's the order, that's five quarters of growth, five and you upgrade plus five plus. That sounds familiar. So you have a chance at 6+ and beyond. And it's healthy growth, it's based on exports, on growth in industrial production, on growth in revenues from services that are export-oriented, which is tourism, on investments in tourism through HBOR. Last year, 25, 26 new hotels opened on the Adriatic. It's money, it's expensive places to make more money. All right, they're not much of a salary, but they pay more. That's a good story. The European Commission should be heard and co-operated with but not covered and served as an excuse. You'll have a hard job. I'll tell you what I think in this short time and what you've been doing or what you haven't done in the last 40 or 50 days, but the government has to acknowledge both this and every future that it's in a difficult situation and that there are actually big problems creating a new demand, a aggregate demand because there are no instruments for it. In principle, there are two instruments to create demand. It's a primary show, so printing money which, according to the Washington Consensus and other dogmas of the neoliberal economy, no one can work. Of course, it's one thing when you're in the Eurozone, so when Frankfurt dictates what you're laughing at and the other is that you have your national currency as British, the reserve currency as the US dollar or those in the EU that haven't yet entered the euro, and they can do something. We can't do anything about it. The printing of money today is something that sounds like a curse, nobody does, and you don't have that instrument. The second is a credit expansion that can also be stimulated by the state. We can't do that either. So, what's left? What's the only source of the de facto primary show? European funds. A billion or how many a year? And on this money we're vitally dependent on its 100% usability, and I'm going to say that's unrealistically ambitious, and you can reassure me and I wish you all the best, which is why you base the projections of this budget. I'm allowed to say it's not real. We were on average successful in this business and we are measuring ourselves with competition and colleagues from Europe during a similar and same period of time, but there are real boundaries. The Pelječki bridge will likely begin to be built, and hopefully the Rijeka-Zagreb railway, which we do not see in the budget, is the intended funds for the national component. We've been looking, we haven't found. Convince me. So I challenge you rhetorically to prove to me the opposite, and I'd like you to prove to me the opposite, as I'd like you to prove to me where the money for the island lines for the Coastal and Linen Navigation Agency is. There's also 40, 50 million kuna missing. Where's that going to pay? We are talking about the emigration of young Croats, because of each of us pain and heart and stomach, but there are not 100 thousand of them, according to the opinion of the European Commission, which you mentioned here several times as a congregation for the science of faith, which is 15 to 20 thousand according to the labour market analysis. I wish it wasn't that either. People travel, perfect, earn, return and I believe they will return and contribute to their homeland and Croatia. However, respected members of the government, the Honorable Prime Minister, you have, in these 40, 50 or 60 days, unfortunately used to the greatest extent for mutual disagreements. The government hasn't been staffed yet, it's not complete and let's finally start doing something. So I can't keep you a figurine in my pocket and wish you all the worst. You inherited a good condition, you inherited one swing, you inherited five quarters of economic growth that wasn't based on an unsuspecting borrowing, you inherited the primary deficit. Now I'm going to read something, so why did you give up on the reform? You say you're offering reforms. I don't see any. Convince us. And in this debate, we're going to keep your attention together. Remember those 200 pages of text with harmonised reforms during the negotiations on the formation of the Croatian government. Where is it? Where are those big things? Will corrective measures take place? I don't think so. No, because it's simply macroeconomic indicators and fiscal indicators that are better. That's what you got on the table. We're gonna get off that radar easy. These figures that you have spoken and which the Minister of Finance pointed out are in principle accurate but you failed to say that they stem from the implementation of the 2015 budget, this is left to you. It's well-preserved property and a well-preserved reputation. And the reputation of Croatia, our country of 4 million and 500 thousand people 56 thousand square kilometers of land is one of the most valuable things we have. If we go to compromise it with a variety of right-wing outbursts, we'll be left without a good vote. And I'll tell you what my impression of why Croatia fell credit rating and why it's not as important as I said at the beginning, but why it happened anyway. It is not the measures the government has taken or has not taken because it has not taken anything but because of the political impression, for the sake of reputation. Take care of that reputation, she wasn't bad during our government. I can't say she was great, but she wasn't bad. Let's not compromise. You know what I mean, so tell me I'm wrong. So, less choreography, some things we'll never agree on when it comes to ideology, we simply won't agree because we're too old and two generations have passed. Let's agree on what is harmful for Croatia, what is business damage, what is harmful to our credit rating and why someone whose finances and better credit rating are still dependent on it and why it can do us harm. We're out of $100 million. We take care of good reputation and good reputation for Croatia. So a favourable circumstance, I will repeat once again is the fact that our government, I will not call it my shift in 2015 and in economic growth and in the consolidation of public finances. Use it and you don't have to repeat it, because I don't experience it personally or emotionally putting it in our balance sheet. Five quarters of growth, industry, tourism, goods and services exports, 1.6% GDP growth in 2015. This all you said didn't happen by the Spirit of the World, it didn't happen by the Spontaneous, it's the result of the interaction of some work, some politics, some kind of conscious activity of a circle of people. This led to a rise in budget revenues beyond the initial expectations with serious cost control. And according to the latest data on budget implementation, in 2015, we reduced the central state deficit to 8.8 billion kuna or 2.6%. And therefore there is no serious danger if you have any serious and responsibility for the corrective actions of the European Commission and let's not frighten the Croats and our citizens. If we just do it a little bit, it won't be. So below 3% and never less than the beginning of the crisis and from that stampede of aggregated economic downturn of 12%, as the finance minister said from 2008 to the year ago, which unfortunately the lion's share happened before we came to power. So in 2008 and 2009, that is 2009 and 2010. I'd like to remind you that we've been forecasted a deficit at the so-called level. General government of 5.6%. It's not gonna happen. When the balance sheet is finally reduced, the deficit should not be greater than 3.5% of GDP in 2015 and the primary surplus after the interest costs are deducted, therefore +2 billion kuna. It's that little shift, if it's done well, it can be the big one that we left to the new government for inheritance. And once again, that is the main reason why corrective measures, at this point, should not be spoken of in this way. We scare people, we make investors. Don't do that. And now that you compare the draft budget for 2016 that we have seen, so the budget of the state government does not budget with the implementation of 2015 you will see that there is no further fiscal consolidation, that there is no significant expenditure, let's talk, deny me and that it will be a stumbling block, a political stumbling block for months ahead. Of all the announced reforms, there are only a few measures left that break over the back of the most needed, I will not say the poorest, the little man. A small man is not poor, a small man is everyone in life, and everyone is standing in front of a large institution, whether it's a bank or it's the biggest institution, a state, it's bigger than anyone. Support for the transportation of high school students by 100 million kuna, if I'm wrong and if you've corrected it with all the honor, if you've corrected it. However, the very fact that you thought about it and put it in the first draft that came out speaks of inconsistency. Well, we can't touch that, so that's the difference between schooling and non-schooling for thousands of Croatian families in northern Croatia without speaking in Slavonia and Dalmatia that have to travel from Babina beam to Župa 15km, if you have two children, that's the financial cost that means for many school leaving. How has such a measure been proposed in the first place? Whoever managed to correct it and return it to the trough did a good thing. The funds for the education sector have been reduced by more than 15 million kuna. I will remind you that just two months ago you wrote, quote: "Our goal is to increase education and science allocations by 0.4% of GDP each year to get closer to the European average.". We haven't gotten too close to the European average, unfortunately, none of that. The funds for the national component for the Rijeka-Zagreb railway, where is it? Tell me, maybe I can't see, so I'm talking wrong. The child's allowance is reduced by 60 million kuna, etc., etc. I'm not going to get into individual numbers like this anymore, I think my message is clear, if it's acceptable to you and it's probably politically unacceptable, let's talk about it. You've reduced funds intended for the restoration and housing of the returnee. It is similar with support from the activities of minority communities in Croatia. So I don't want to believe that cutting funds is related to the question whether or not the representatives who supported or not the government are representatives, that's not good. And I don't want to count it anymore. In the debate that follows, you will hear everything we object to at this time. And I can't get the impression that it's a quick budget without much thinking and some of the examples I've set are in favor of that and that ultimately go to the harm of the most vulnerable groups in society. We avoided shallow demagogy, speech reform while we were in power, we fought with the European Commission, we did not take every genius proposal for granted. Because look at some things we need to start speaking openly and slowly balance them after 3 years in the European Union. The European Union and its policy towards the members of the water bureaucrats. I worked for four years not only to sit in the European Council and I know very well what it looks like. So all that's good for us is not designed by Angela Merkel, but by a chain of well-paid and well-tapped bureaucrats who know and think they know what's best for Croatia. I'm not saying that they want Croatia badly but we're the ones who know what's best for Croatia. And that we've listened to them and that we've unspeakably copied them these five quarters of growth, forget it. None of it's gonna happen. So our measures that we could. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] How many minutes do I have 10 or 15? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4781	You're out of time. 10, so I don't have the right to speak anymore? No. No. Thank you very much. [[/Upadica Milanović: Excuse me. Thank you, that's all.]] Before we move on to the replicas of which there are more, allow me to welcome the delegation of the Czech Parliament's House of Representatives, the Committee for terms of office and immunity of the Czech Republic Parliament, which is visiting the Croatian Parliament upstairs at the gallery. And now we'd move on to replicas, there'd be more. [[Applause.]] She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4782	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Milanovic, I am pleased to see you in the Parliament and I am glad that your heart is in pain for undeveloped areas and islands. However, I am sorry that we are from the same area as the new Regional Development Act, which was adopted in 2014 by the Dalmatinska Zagora, Gorski Kotar, Lici, where people are most evicted. However, you obviously did not look well at those parts at the time. You're not the only ones to blame. And those who've done indexation before. At these ends and therefore need criteria, these ends need criteria for both textbooks and school transport because it is not the center of the world yours. The new law you passed in 2014 is essentially a message that we must all come to live in Zagreb where there are free textbooks, transportation to Split, and these ends should be evicted. I hope that this government will have a social component to those parts that were a human resource first. Now it's an area of burned ground. There used to be not only people, but agriculture developed so that during the former government there were about 20,000 dairy producers and today we have 4,000 dairy producers. That today we have 100 billion kunas more in charge of the state, and that is why I hope that we will change the laws and bring reforms, and that this budget has been adopted in 37 working days and that we will all be together and agree on everything we have signed in the negotiations and that we will implement the reforms that people expect in common as we have created this country in common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4783	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Joseph Bilaver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4784	Thank you, Your Honor, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Your Honor. I welcome all of you together. Mr. Milanovic, you are still obviously wearing some pink glasses because you see a situation that no one else in this country sees. You mentioned some kind of growth, you mentioned employment, growth in ratings, investments, emigration. So I have to tell you that you're the last to talk about reputation, because your government's reputation is everyone knows everything. The reputation of Croatia in which your government has brought us in speaks enough information that you have brought the rating of the Republic of Croatia to the level of garbage. I'll remind you that you've charged Croatia in three years for 100 billion kunas which will be paid back by us, but unfortunately our children too. Also, you mentioned moving young people. Well, as former prime minister, I remind you that you should talk about accurate data, and the exact data is that in three years, Croatia has left over 100,000 young people, and only 93,000 young people in the Republic of Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4785	Thank you. The honourable representative Zoran Milanovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4786	Here's how you can't resist. You speak as if you've graduated from a political school in Kumrovec. That's exactly the rhetoric, that methodology, that syntax, that's it. Give yourself more of that, work a little with the young. It's a godmother's speech. Let's talk normal. So I didn't mention employment, there wasn't even a single word about it. Read the phonogram. But not a word of employment. So, concentrate and you're not able to keep your attention for three minutes. I wish you'd gone to Godfather's school, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4787	The next replica is that of a respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4788	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Milanovic. So it was hard to hear about five quarters of economic growth. We have three years of economic downturn. So, you took over the country in 2012 after leaving the recession and do not accidentally respond, do not refer to what the whole of Europe suffered in 2009 and 2010 while you had responsibility, you who smiled the most in 2012, the thirteenth and fourteenth especially the whole of Europe grew apart from Croatia. But my replica really concerns your statement that you absolutely don't hold onto the rating agencies. If you don't hold on to rating agencies we know that, keep it exclusively to the PR agencies and those foreign agencies. But because of your moves, so because of 100 billion kunas, almost 100 billion kunas of a new four-year debt, which I think is a European record. Today we are at the very bottom because you do not hold until the rating agency today the Croats pay the biggest interest except for the Greeks in Europe. So, multiple interest rates from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Poljak because you don't hold Mr. Milanovic to the rating agency. And who are you, please don't hold to the rating agencies of the world? So I ask you to answer nicely, because today because of your actions, because you did not take action, because you did not reform for four years while you were responsible for this country we all suffer together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4789	Thank you. The honourable representative Milanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4790	Well, how did that rating agency judge you? How did she evaluate the government that's been working for a month? And for what it's anyone else's fault except that government. But I'm begging you again, so don't fetishe it. I said here half and over years ago that HDZ's act as agents of foreign banks, because you needed to be forced to personally support the Swiss franc law. Are you at least a little ashamed of that now? Are you at least a little ashamed that you needed to be here literally, so you needed to seek justice to uphold that law and the banks wouldn't give it up easily? It's not over. She'll use her legal resources, so she'll never be at your loss. This morning, here in September 2015, you were supposed to literally musk to raise your hand for the law, show solidarity with Croatian families who are crushed by the long-term debt in which banks always profit and you are now giving a lecture on rating agencies. Okay. So today, as in 2011, Croatia owes more than the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic had 3% interest on 10-year bonds in 2012. And that's reality. We found this. Today they have 1% and 2% growth. And they're better than us. There are colleagues from the Czech Republic. However, do not fetishe the rating agencies because you will provoke some questions, dilemmas and questionnaires. Who do you work for? What rating agency? So if the rating agencies were to ask themselves the world economy would have been imploded a long time ago and no one could be in charge. Let's look at ourselves, listen to the European Commission, and work on our own. That was my message, and you're telling me what happened in 2011, which was 2010. Who cares more about that? So, I mean this most seriously, rating agencies listen to what they think but their opinion and their reputation was compromised the moment Lehman Brothers fell apart. At that moment, they all predicted it wrong. They live off people like you. Don't be their spokeswoman. You are a representative at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4791	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished MP Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4792	... Milanovic about your rating and what they think about your government and everything you did for the Croatian state for our country all the voters said, they said enough, they said they no longer want the SDP government that brought us to the brink of destruction. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] What I ask you, Mr Milanović, is it not unpleasant for you to pass through Zagreb, Croatia when every third person in Croatia lives on the edge of poverty thanks to these great results of your government? But I don't think it's necessary to comment on all the lies you made in your speech precisely because the voters said what they thought of you as the president of the Croatian government, but I will correct your two lies. It's about the child's allowance. Unfortunately, the funds are smaller. And do you know why? Perhaps if you looked at the budget and met him, you might know the answer to that question. Because in the last four years, especially in the past year since the statistics of newborn children in Croatia are measured, the lowest number of children born. We've experienced a demographic bottom thanks to your government. On the other hand, over 100,000 people have moved out of Croatia, with the wave of young people all over the family. So that migration is different than it was 50 years ago when one family member left. And regarding the transport of students, the Government amended the transport of students by the end of this school year, and in that part you were telling the truth. That's why I think it was necessary to correct what you said here from the pay phone. Please tell the facts and arguments do not deceive the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4793	Thank you. The honourable representative Zoran Milanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4794	... That I ran away, even though this sort of thing doesn't make sense. [[Specially enabled.]] You're excited, you're hyperventilating, you haven't read the budget. So 100 million kuna is less social and you talk about poor people in Zagreb. So come on, please! Therefore, under public pressure, an item on co-financing of student transport has been left. Because someone wrote it, I don't know what, that budget. And then it turned out and people reacted to it. He must've pressed you, Ratko Cup is there? Or someone else. I think because he was one of the mayors along with the rest of us, that idea. And now I think I've been nice to this pay phone. You, with maximum excitement, teach me a lesson. You're wrong. So the budget is reduced, that item is reduced, 100 million kuna less. And you say it's because fewer little Croats were born. First, that information was asked. Secondly, 100,000 people from Croatia did not come out. ... That's the information that's been asked. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Second, he's equally questioned... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4795	Please, please, let's just shut up a little bit. Let's let the MP say his own thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4796	Secondly, you seem to be enjoying yourself, so at one point the European Commission is your supreme authority, your convergence for the science of faith and truth. Everything the commission says is like that. Here's the Prime Minister listening to the Vice President of the European Commission, my colleague and even more than my colleague, Dombrovskis, as if he were the Pope. On the other hand, the figures that the European Commission makes in assessing the emigration from Croatia, you despise. And those figures are incomparably less than what you say. Hey, 15 thousand people, let's be happy with that. Well, no one can stop, and you can't stop someone from packing today and going to Ireland or Britain. That's impossible. I can't make them, nor can you make families have more children. No politics on behalf of the family, fingers away from my family. When I start telling you what to do in your family tell me fingers away from my family. The state only enters the family by strict legal assumptions. It's a private matter, it's the intimacy of God's people. I mean, come on, let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4797	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4798	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Milanovic, I would like to replicate the three things you said in your opening statement. The first refers to your claim that during the government you led Croatia there is no reduction in credit rating. I would remind you that during your term of office on 2 occasions, the Croatian credit rating was reduced, the first time in 2012 and the second time in 2014. The second thing concerns your statement that your government has been effective in withdrawing funds from European funds. We discussed a few days ago, 10 days ago, we had here in Parliament a report on the withdrawal of funds from European funds and we determined the following by 2023. Croatia has the right to withdraw 10.7 billion and only 300m euros have been withdrawn over the past 2 years. And as for pre-accession funds, I think you agree that your government has experienced an indignity with the Long-Selo-Križevci railway project where we are likely to run out of 160m euros as planned for the Long-Selo-Križevci railway project. And thirdly, I am pleased that you are taking care of Croatian islands when you say that the Agency for Public Line and Coastal Maritime Transport has dropped 39.7 million kunas, which is true if you compare that data with the 2015 budget plan. But when you look at the execution for last year in the positions of that same agency, then you will see that it is actually an increase, which makes it absolutely logical, it is a significant reduction in the fuel price in the last year, which then contributed to the fact that at that price of fuel if it did at 30% of the shipowner's costs that it is perfectly clear that such an amount planned for last year in this year would be a large amount that would have been subscribed to all Croatian shipers. So, I'm glad you're taking care of the Croatian islands. But speaking of Croatian islands, I would remind you that during your time, during your government, Croatian islands reduced almost double resources at the position of capital projects that meant building important facilities of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4799	Thank you. The honourable representative Zoran Milanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4800	I see you've prepared yourself, you've got points to answer, but you haven't listened again. So I didn't mention the rating, I mentioned the reputation of the state, and that's one slightly less tangible category. Well, we can talk about that. So ratings, I didn't mention. So you're correcting something I didn't say at all, you're different from your reputation. Well, our ratings were falling normally. As for the debacle for the railway line, you know Mr. Bačić as opposed to you who received an expensive Swiss watch from the director of Croatia...... You and Kalmeta from the ACI Club, so ACI, who then gave them to the godmothers and relatives in Korcula, and you admitted it here, we conduct public procurement, you understand. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And when the public procurement fails, it has to happen again. That's it, it wasn't stealing. As far as European funds are concerned, it is impossible to compare at all, it is impossible to compare the results, so your previous government and what my associates and I did. And I am keenly interested in why the Prime Minister is, as it is called, the Chief Integration Officer, or the Integration Officer, namely the position that the Deputy Minister for the European Funds has held. So from a failed government that worked badly. Why? So a key person who was an associate of the Greek minister and then me, for the realisation of European funds, the most unsuccessful government that has all gone through has been hired by the prime minister to run the project. So get a little coordination, you only have two minutes to listen to what I'm saying and you're not able to pull yourself together and match me. You've got a chance to hang me up, you've got it all wrong. And this is the biggest mistake, so this is the biggest delusion. The person who is one of the most responsible for the failures you're talking about, the alleged failure has won the highest position in your government. So why? Let's take a shift. So give me a shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4801	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm listening to what he's in, and what article is he hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4802	Mr. President, article 238 of the Croatian Rules of Procedure has been injured. So Mr. Milanovic, when he has no arguments to answer what I've replicated to him, then reaches for insulting the MPs. Now that he's got these kind of words, I'd remind him to explain to us how he could get a loan from Erste Bank when he didn't meet the conditions for that loan. Until today, he did not explain to the Croatian public what the criteria were and what they were, which is why he got a loan that the other Croatian citizens could not get and they had the same age as him. In fact, he used a loan that was meant for people who were much younger than him. So I invite him to explain to all of us how the loan came about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4803	I estimate it's not a violation of Article 238. Here you go. Now the board is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4804	The grandmother now has been injured by the Rules of Procedure,...... 208th Mr. Schucker, 208th... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4805	Please, please, like this, first please stop yelling.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4806	First of all, I'm glad you're treating me like a prime minister, and I'm not. So, I mean, you talk to me like I'm the prime minister, but I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4807	I'm asking you nicely. Comrade Milanovic, you will get the word when I give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4808	And great, then. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4809	So first of all, I'm asking you all to calm down. Secondly, there's no article, that article you mentioned doesn't say anything about this. Yeah, you're wrong, they whispered wrong, they whispered wrong, so you heard wrong, but anyway. [[Intruder Milanovic: 238.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4810	Well, look, you don't have to give me your word, I'll take the next chance if... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4811	I'm asking you to be quiet. No, no, I'm giving you my word right now. I've just turned my attention that you've been quoting the whole wrong article.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4812	No, we're not going to abuse. So we won't, if you don't let me talk, I won't talk. I will not abuse the Rules of Procedure as a representative of Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4813	No, no, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4814	So very clearly, everyone knows what I was talking about, they were getting expensive gifts from the directors of state firms. As for the loan, Mr. Bacic, my credit is at 6% interest. Here are the people and here who have been credited by the state institutions in which they worked at 2% interest to resolve the housing issue. 6% is interest on credit, I pay it, and I'll pay it because I'm only living out of pay for my entire working life. [[Applause]] Bye. Now go back. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4815	Thank you very much. I estimate that, of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure when it is not appropriate. So, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4816	Dear Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4817	My colleagues and colleagues, may we allow my colleague Glasnovic to speak his own line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4818	We can calm down a little, 'cause we'll be sitting here by 3:00 in the morning. Thank you. We don't need your performance and anyone else's to realize that what they're saying is a total deviation from what this government did and what you're saying. For example, what kind of structural reforms you've achieved in this country is... You were four years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you're saying is we're looking at one thing that you've left for this government to make real structural reforms is one of Pokin's villages, primarily the judiciary. Who will invest in a country where some laws go through procedure 23 times, where there is no legal certainty. Who's going to invest there? Secondly, all three credit agencies have reduced your government's global ratings. There's no business nor norm in this country, no standard, no doing anything to us. This is a legal mess. It's about minorities. All minorities are more desirable to you than the Croatian minority. This is why Croatia no longer has consulates in Vancouver, New Zealand. That is why 3 million Croats are totally removed from economic and social development. Yes, but your government of Mr. Racan has continued to pay the Serbian Orthodox Church with an invalid contract so far half a billion kuna and more. We are paying the Serbian Orthodox Church today, and in Serbia alone, the Serbian Orthodox receives only pension and health insurance. What a system in Parliament, there's no such thing as this government in the Council in the world. On corruption as far as your government has written off tax debts, for example from the EPH onward. When you talk about monopoly in the media, it is not a problem for Croatia that new journalists who are exposed to self-censors, but from the former system, for example, on HTV. What if Marco... You took the state of service after the fall of the Berlin Wall, and there you put one skirmish up there that certainly works for UDBA and other heads [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But like this, our problem isn't Mr. Milanovic. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] You're the problem with the mental circuit that's buried in little Moscow, and that's our problem. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4819	The honourable representative Zoran Milanovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4820	Well, this is... In that system, the Mountains said, Dolanc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, no? From the hill, from the valley. So, I didn't realize it all, I realized some things. Look, there are some things we'll never agree on. That's why I said let go of a little Moscow. So in this Second World War, my family passed both the red and black columns and prisons and other things. So let's let it go, we won't agree on it. You've all spent a lot of time in Canada. I heard you were a war hero, good for you around Tomislavgrad. However, in some things we do not agree. Let's agree on what is harmful to Croatia and what rating agencies that are so important to you and your hearts are responding to. They react to political extremism. Europe may not be built on anti-fascism, but it is on justice, democracy, equality, minority rights, and on all the values that we must keep here, which are sacred in Canada. What about the reform? You know what structural reforms are? These are public sector employees and business relief. So, changing the legislative framework. When you talk to me about justice, I didn't even frame the SDP in the judiciary. So today's structure of the Croatian judiciary is exclusively a reflection of the work of HDZ and Vladimir Seks people not mine! Our influence is zero. And since the entry into the EU and the change of the Croatian Constitution in 2010, less than zero, no judge, no verdict, nothing. So we're totally out of it, too. I can't charge you with misjudgment because you don't have any influence on this as well as on the work of the CNB that corresponds to the guys in Frankfurt. That's a fact. So I'll never put that under your nose. However, whether the care of 10, almost 10,000 people in the Croatian Railways, is one mastodon that was on the verge of, which has failed de facto already. Is it the care of 10,000 people in four years, almost 10,000 which is almost half the workers? Is that structural reform? Who did this? Are you? So that's why I didn't get any votes, it was just punishment. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] It's structural reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4821	Thank you very much. Here it is, we've exhausted the replicas and we can move on to the next club representative, and that's the HNS. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4822	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The intentions with which the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister came to this House as presented here certainly sound good and positive. However, the text of the budget is what it is, the figures in the budget are what they are and they speak, and that's where the Prime Minister has the right, for the first time in fact, to produce what the intentions are and what is really meant to be done and what can be expected. Therefore, regardless of the intentions expressed in the budget itself by the means planned, the items that exist show what can be expected regardless of these intentions. The budget has several general characteristics. One is to systematically reduce the investment of everyone related to the economy and education. The second is that so far, at least in the 2016 Budget, there is no sign of reform of the state and public administration. Something that's been said a lot may come up on the agenda later but there's no intention of reforming the state and public administration in this budget. Moreover, the Ministry of Administration is the only one with more than double budgets. In other words, if anything can be read out by the economy and education less, bureaucracy more. The third characteristic is the lack of ambition seen in this budget. So expectations, projections, targets are less than the current state. So it's expected that industry will grow slower than it is now. Exports are expected to grow slower than they are now expected. Unemployment is expected to decrease by 1 promil from what was at the end of 2015. And finally in the 2018 projection, it is planned that unlike what is now imports will grow at a higher rate than exports. So our goal should be and today exports are growing, so at the end of 2015 exports are growing at a rate of 9.2 and imports are increasing at 8.6. This does not mean, of course, that we export more than we import but that at least we try to change that relationship. For 2018, imports are therefore planned to become and grow again gradually from today to 2018 at a higher rate than exports. As regards indicators in the economy and the intentions to be made out of the budget, therefore not from the introductory words but from the budget, they give readings. In the economic portfolio itself, half the money used to implement the Industrial Strategy is reduced. We finally have, we have a great industrial strategy that has resulted in the growth of industry. That money he contributed and made it possible to reduce. Which means we can almost certainly expect industrial production to start falling by the end of the year. So something we have in our hands is almost getting smaller. A public-private partnership is being abolished. But not just in the economy. And the economy where a project of energy efficiency, which is precisely for municipalities, cities, at capillaries level, has contributed to cutting. The irrigation project mentioned here and which I must honestly say is one remark or a grudge that I also have for our government that we did not push it, promote it stronger and harder and manage it, but it is certainly a key project for Croatia. And I was glad to hear that you recognized him as an important project. He's gone! So it doesn't appear to be something that will be realized or at least start to realize this year. Environmental protection, too, the economy. The Piškornica dump is stopping. There is no plan for what can be realized now, and possibly according to the new methodology it has been working since 2017, 2018 which is certainly possible one move. However, do not stop what can be done and where it is possible to get the money in order to change the methodology that will eventually enter into force in 2017. So it's also one of the elements of the economy that stops here. Tourism, something that has really brought us good results, is reducing the budget by 40 million. Even at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, everything that has to do with the economy is shrinking. So the financing of trade policy, economic diplomacy, which, according to the users themselves, has shown excellent results. Even a small project is being abolished that does not require a lot of money but refers to exactly the Dalmatian hinterland. The "Adriatic Provence" project, which at the state level really needs a little money but needs a lot of work. And all the mayors of these counties, which is a cross-border project of co-operation with BiH, all the mayors of these counties have joined the project, welcomed and prepared to work together and, of course, apply with the help of the EU's Ministry of Finance. So, a project that would turn the Dalmatian hinterland into a tourist destination, help turn it into a tourist destination, give people jobs and still serve to repair relations across the border, or build a constructive relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina in the perspective and Montenegro is abolished. So anything related to some economic activity by different ministries. It's important and it's good, and I even have to commend here that the public pressure has been taken seriously and the objections that came from all over the country not to reduce the financing of transportation for students because it's not social, it's not a social project. It is a project prerequisite for a de facto compulsory secondary school, so one higher level in education and the next stage in education as far as Croatia is concerned. It's originally reduced, it's now returned and it's good to at least hear the voice of the public here. The funding of textbooks, high school students and primary schools is reduced by 21%. However, what is really worrying about investment in scientific research is decreasing by 55%, so it decreases by nearly 400 million kuna. Perfecting scientific recruits, it's that chance that we have at all science and higher education. It's down by 80%, with 212 million in '15. 48 million this year. It also reduces the funding of domestic scientific journals that mean, for young scientists, the prerequisite that they can publish at all, that they can progress. This mandate was supposed to be a mandate for education. Last term was the mandate of turning from economic downturn to economic growth. Whatever you're saying, it was supposed to be done and it happened. This mandate was meant to be the mandate of education as an economic strategy, not only as an education strategy but as an economic strategy. From what you can see for at least 2016, that intention doesn't exist, and if you've returned the money you've taken away from the carriage of students here we're pleading with you to return the money for scientific recruits, at least that. These are young people who are the future of Croatian science and higher education. Finally, the issue of human rights, although at first sight it does not look like an economic issue, certainly affects the general climate. Among other things, the general climate has an impact of course on investment. Among other things, one very interesting change in how to finance the work of national minorities. We at the club here especially follow the Roma National Minority in whose position and status we believe that much has been changed positively in recent years. This budget reduces the autonomous resources, hence the resources with which national minorities can dispose in accordance with their programmes within their communities and increases the funds where they will each be assessed whether it is a programme or a proposal that is acceptable or not acceptable and of course will be assessed by the Government, not by the national minority for which the money is intended. Therefore, autonomy in the actions of national minorities and project planning is clearly reduced by this budget. And finally something that isn't in the budget because it can't be, but it affects the investment climate, the entrepreneurship climate, research, entrepreneurship in science, art, in any area is a political climate. And the political climate, however severe the financial and economists may be, has a huge impact on the economy, on the investment of the foreign and domestic and entrepreneurship of each species. And the political climate is the government's concern. Some commentators are beating this budget that it is the budget of continuity. By reading the budget, it doesn't seem like the budget is continuity. It seems more similar to one situation where two drivers would take the car from Zagreb to Split, one would drive to Zadar and tell the other now you take over. And the other one would take the wheel and still stand in Zadar. Continuity doesn't mean staying in the same place. Continuity means continuing trends. And even boost the trends that those before you started. Since there are no indications in this budget, since it does not promise to continue the positive trends that started at least in the economy, the Croatian People's Party will not support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4823	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4824	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Pusic, you said public reform of public administration and state is needed. Of course it is necessary, but this government has meant 38 working days in the past four years I don't know how many agencies there are. There have been reports here, as many employees of course may well be good people doing their job. But how much is it? How much of this did your party and other parties take part on both left and right? Yes, of course we have to do that, and of course the agencies have to shrink and reassess, and that's what our minister is going to do. You say investment. In 37 days, you expect him to start investment. Of course, Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic has experience in that. But I'm sorry there's no former prime minister here so he can hear too. You founded 2013. The Commission for State Strategic Investments, which has only met 5 times since 2013, and you haven't solved a single investment except that you regularly placed it in public that Croatia is launching a number of investments that should be launched by Croatia. That is why I expect from this Government the social component that I said in the first line to Mr Milanovic and this investment employment of our fellow citizens in Croatia and the survival of young people in Croatia mainly in undeveloped areas that are extinct and burned. That is why I expect you in future 2016 in the preparation of the 2017 budget programme to support us in all legal acts and amendments to the reforms that we must implement. And in 36 days, these people, the government had to find 2 billion kuna and more in the budget, cut it into 37 days. And 100 billion kuna is in debt of 290 in the last 4 years, the 100 billion Croatian state is in debt. And one more thing, out of the national minorities who are rich, and I live with those hard-lived people, you can't talk about national minorities like they're just the self-service of certain parties. National minorities are a wealth of Croatian society, and they need to be truly fought with their hearts, not just because of the voting machine. Thank you very much. You can laugh, but I live with these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4825	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, as far as working days go, the government doesn't have any work or work days. The government works all the time, believe me, it doesn't measure what they're working and not working. Two, four months have passed since the election. In the first month of the elections, we were not only preparing the budget in January 2012, but we carried out an entire referendum on Croatia's EU accession. So, it's been four months since the election, and every government when it comes has a short time to make a budget. But it's not the first time they've thought of it. I guess they have some ideas. As far as public administration reform is concerned, it is clear that it cannot be done in one year, but whether it will be done at all is shown from the first step. Is there a first step in this year's not? In this year, in this budget is a step in the opposite direction. Maybe it'll be next. But in this budget is a step towards public administration reform in the opposite direction, and even if you want to finance, the exact same model is 90% of the state, 5% of the city of Zagreb, 5% of all other local self-government units. As for investment and business climate, just to remind myself that in that mandate Croatia from 80th place on the ranking list does bussiness or business came up to 40th. If that's not enough, I have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4827	Thank you very much. Please don't yell out of each other's benches. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4828	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. You said you were able to run a lot of things in the last term and you didn't see any signs in this budget, and you said that the last term was marked by success. I will say that last term was the mandate of stopping life in Croatia, and it seems to me that you as foreign minister did not have time to see it, so you lived in another world. And I'll be very specific. I will tell you that you, as the majority in this House, have managed to pass a series of very stupid and harmful laws, careless laws that have threatened investments in the past term and that will endanger investments in this mandate if this government does not urgently initiate amendments to the law, i.e. the adoption of new laws. Not to tell you, you've just mentioned draining and some other projects from the EU that I'm not telling you about water and sewer projects. So, by very clumsyly amending the Construction Act, you have endangered hundreds and hundreds of building permits and thus threatened the withdrawal of money from the EU funds. After that, the Law on Exclusion that has completely complicated all these projects and if these things don't change, unless this Government urgently does that, I'm telling you that you will be responsible for hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas that will not be withdrawn and for staying, poverty in rural areas because we won't realize projects. It's the truth of your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4829	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4830	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact that there were certainly bad or inefficient laws absolutely does not have that mandate in which they were not present. So that's what it's all about. The question is, what's the net score? Did it eventually produce a more positive investment climate than it was when we came or not? Now, fellow Hrg, you can think that your impression is more important than the ratings that we got internationally but the ratings doing business told us that we were in 80th place, and we jumped to 40th. I don't know now whether your impression is more important than what the agencies estimate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4831	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4832	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs Pusic mentioned the project "Provansa" i.e. Dalmatian Zagora. I'm going to tell you here about this project something very important, in the last four years, people have never moved out of the Dalmatian mountain. And you know why? Because of what the colleague of the Hrg just said, so stupid laws passed like one decision, and that's your decision to index the local administrations. So it happens that the local administration which is indeed both factually and realistically indeed at low levels has received an index as if it were more developed than Zagreb, Rijeka. That really was one of those stupid decisions. And not to tell you about the decisions you've made in the field of environmental science. I'll tell you, Salonit, from the area where I come from, three focal points have been removed previously, the fourth focal point has been dragged away for four years without being even rehabilitated. The reason why? Today you have so many asbestos patients in that area that I just can't figure out that and that one little step that's left for four years hasn't been realized. And I'm not speaking above all about eliminating state support for mountainous and mountainous areas. So today the budgets of local communities in this area of Dalmatian burn, of course the Gorski kotar, like and others fell over 30% to 40% before making that decision. And for the very end, I've seen you leave this assembly on a few occasions when it's being spoken by the honorary general of the Croatian Army, so please tell me why you're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4833	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4834	Thank you very much. So, as far as everything you've said about the "Adriatic Provence" project is concerned, the first indexation was passed in 2010 as you know, so during the HDZ government. Secondly, as far as the Adriatic Provance project is concerned, if anything, we should just concentrate on that kind of project if you say the situation is bad, people are leaving. That's the possibility the French made, and that's why they called themselves so on the job, which they did maybe 100, 150 years ago. The possibility of not attracting the number of tourists he could from a beautiful area today, and he could be absolutely the same as Provance, which is probably one of the most famous and popular points in the world to allow people to develop beyond the border to develop that area into a first-class tourist destination. And people wanted to. I don't know why that would be negative. The local mayors wanted, the local mayors, and in my opinion, the project should absolutely continue. It is related to the economy, it requires almost nothing from the state, very little money, only business and coordination and local self-government and county are competing for European funds, of course with the help of the state, for funds for the project. So I don't see why it should be lifted. Your whole argument, in my opinion, goes in favor of what I said. And I don't know who you think I'm getting up for or not getting up or leaving. Believe me, the needs are very private.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4835	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4836	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pusic, I would disagree with your claim when you say education is an economic category. Or I'd agree in part. Besides education is an economic category, it's also a strategic category, at least for me. Some colleagues here when we were only discussing the beginnings of this government were saying that the budget is a strategic document of each government, and this budget is a strategic document. And according to this strategic document, education in the particulars of this government is neither a strategic nor an economic goal. I agree with you that co-financing of student transport is announced if the HDZ and MOST clubs submit that it is commendable. But we have also heard a lot about EU projects from colleagues, about EU funds that should also strengthen our financial capacities. And here's just an example of education. The EU University of Osijek has reduced co-financing projects from 6 million to 100 thousand to 398 thousand. So that's the strategic policy. You were also talking about what was reduced, so also about investing in health and research activities, the scholarship of regular students and scientific training was cut by a third. The development of higher education has been reduced from a million and 600 thousand to 500 thousand. This turns out to be more strategic investment, i.e. the state is more isolated for the restoration of the Constitutional Court's rolling stock than for the development of higher education. In my opinion, this strategic decree, this government strategic document on education, is a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4837	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Radiir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4838	Thank you very much, President. First around this dilemma around do busniess. We already said that here once, if the same elements had been applied and they could be applied, that analysis was done, we would have fallen by one place, since the methodology was changed then we grew. And learn that. That's what I'm saying. It's easy to check. Thank you. So let's stop talking, so I don't say what. Now, my replica was next. In 2005, as mayor, I introduced free transportation for high school students deep at the expense of the county and local self-government fifty and the only Varazdin County had it and no one else. No state has ever taken part in this. After that we expanded it even to a few more counties and after that is Sanader from... And two years later, he canceled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or before the election he gave and after that he took it back. The government has made a major decision, a difficult decision and an incomplete decision. But 300 million in the 2012 budget was huge money, when the only cut after Shucker's 9 billion 2009 cut was actually made. 300 million were found. After that, Molnar said that, publicly, he would cancel all 300, so at zero, from 75 to zero, instead of going to 100, to create a presumption of mandatory high school... We're going to zero. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now this government is making the same mistake. Unfortunately, as the minister from Zagreb or Rijeka comes, he doesn't see or understand what it is, not because people are bad but don't understand, they don't know, they don't have that empathy. And of course here we're talking about an additional 20 million, I'm surprised that Mrs. Pusic didn't say that which is taken from 15 of Varazdin County, 5 to Koprivnica, which is absolutely unacceptable. Varazdin himself, the Varazdin County itself and local self-government have funded 32 schools, none of the state got. And now that part that goes on them is now taken. It is a direct blow to the Varazdin County and in a small segment to Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4839	Thank you. Now we'd move on, and the answer is, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4840	Only for a short time to respond without rude insinuations has changed the methodology for Croatia, it has changed for everyone else, so the methodology remained the same for everyone in the first and second cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4841	Thank you. Now we would like to go to the next club of representatives and this is the Club of Representatives of the Most in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4842	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister, Minister of Government, MPs and MPs, I welcome you on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. The topic of today's presentation and debate is the state budget. So I'll be free in these 15 minutes to express our views on, observations and attitudes about him. The Croatian economy and society are located in an environment that is determined by things in the processes, defined by external and internal factors regarding the external constraints of our economy and thus the budget. It is a rather prophetic atmosphere in the economies of the European Union. There is a further increase in instability in the financial markets both in the European Union and in the weakening of the position of the Chinese economy in the world. We must keep all of this in mind because the estimates of Croatia's GDP growth depend well on that as well. Furthermore, one elemental question is whether public debt is too large. Here we see that the left side has its penicillin on the right, the right side has penicillin on the left and we have both sides, right? So the rhetorical and essential question is whether public debt is too much. It's one thesis for discussion. You see, Japan has a public debt of 245% and it works. Bulgaria has 28% but it does not work. We've got 85%, so we're shooting at it. And now if we open the debate, then I'll prove to you that there are grandmothers, frogs, etc., because there's an unsettled methodology and there's no need to scare us or the public, but we can talk about it because it's a serious problem. I don't want to say that that's not the problem. Here, the finance minister said that, not to repeat the figures, that the deficit, meaning the central state, the pardon, of the general state, would be 7.5 billion, when we add 2 billion extra budget funds to that, that would be 9.5 billion, that would be an increase in public debt of 3.5% compared to GDP, compared to the current situation. And it does mean that it's a public debt increase in the future. Furthermore, the revenues planned by VAT of 55 billion in 2014 were projected, in fact, in 2015. 57, in 2016 are projected at 60 billion kuna, which is optimistic. In my opinion, or ours, there's a little bit of an explication on how to do it. And there is one of the risks of failing to achieve such VAT revenues, which can then make the situation worse and lead to rebalancing. Furthermore, an increase in revenues from international organisations is planned, and this is where EU funds flow is thought of, the withdrawal of funds and they are optimistic. They are in 2015, the plan was to withdraw 7 billion and for 2016 they should withdraw 9.7 billion. So this also raises the question of whether or not it will succeed, so I am stating some of the risks that can be exposed to the achievement of this budget. What is very important to highlight in this proposal is the item of expenditure on interest on government securities, these are bonds. They are estimated to be 9 billion and 100 million kuna, and the expenditure on interest on loans is 1.7 billion kuna, totaling 10.8 billion kuna. What is interesting there is no indication of how to reduce these interest rates and therefore should be taken into account especially in the next budget, because that is the carcinogenic part of the budget that is fastest growing because it feeds itself. From the following items, I'll just count a few more. For example, for the State Office for State Property Management, expenditures of $42 billion, of which on gross wages of 12 billion, material expenditures of 18 and a half and all. Excuse me a million, excuse me. The institution would have to finance itself, although it does something and sells. However, this position should, in our opinion, be repositioned and seen and thus stimulate the institution's work. I noticed that only 5 million kunas are foreseen to change the status of the Immunological Institute. Someone's been saying these days it's going to be 30 million, so I don't, I'm quoting what it says. This is a strategic firm, it's a company of national interest and according to national security, and I think something further must be done in the next period. Furthermore, I saw, I noticed an item called the INA MOL MOL MOL MILL 46 million kuna in 2015, 45 million kuna, excuse me in 2016. In 2015 there were 45 million kunas. The next draft budget to this Parliament should not appear without any explanation of the effects of such disputes and of the items indicated. Further subsidies to restructure the shipyard have increased from 313 to 891 million kuna. The following budget must be accompanied by the effect of such subsidies as has been made, i.e. budgetary money. Furthermore, why subsidies for concessionaries and highways Zagreb – Macelj grew to 98 million kuna, highway Rijeka to 56 million kuna. You see, these are the results of some contracts long ago, but we see that today we are paying them gentlemen, or not just us here, but Croatian citizens. Furthermore, the budget is of general concern, unfortunately the budget has arrived late before us and we do not have time for any major changes. We understand that Zeitnot, but it's not a good approach, because it's about the practice we've been judging so far and we wanted to get rid of it. But we understand this situation, because the government is formed late. Furthermore, this budget must be harmonised with the EU ESA methodology in order to be compatible. I mentioned earlier that there are risks of achieving macroeconomic economic assumptions, and that is the growth of the gross domestic product of 2.2%. There's a lot of attention being given to exports. However, the phenomenon of Croatian exports should finally be explored as to why it is growing this way, and due to these circumstances, I think there is a significant transport present. On the side of the budget expenditure, an item on interest and loans will have to be reduced. Why is that a problem? We must have one poly-economic approach to the budget, because it is practically necessary to refinance existing debts, and especially the states, and especially those of kuna origin, means from the Croatian domestic market. If we see, assume, and so it is that the average interest rate on government debt is 5% and if we know that the projected GDP growth is 2.2% we are now automatically seeing that this does not allow the service of accumulated debt, and that means a very big and dangerous problem that is holding us all back together. In this context, the need to refinance debts is imposed as the primary objective and this will also show the direction that this Government is going to and what this Parliament is thinking and where we are going as a society. In addition, there is a major problem in stimulating growth, expensive financing by banks, unrealistic exchange rates, etc. Since there's not much time yet, I'm going to say some concrete things. So, the next budget will need to see additional information other than naked figures such as practice in the EU, to see what it means, which means. If this is about shipbuilding subsidies, then we need to know how many workers are there, the structure of material costs, services, etc. Or if this is about the Innovation and Competitiveness Agency, and we also need to know how many workers there are there to make certain analyses and to know why budget money is being invested. So, today I got the information, I thought this was a problem. For DORH, less than 16 million kunas were foreseen. However, I have received information that this will not be so because this important institution must not be allowed to run out of funds, because judicial reform is among the monetary and tax and public sectors, so it is one of the most important. Now what I end up saying in this whole story is how to solve problems and I quote some of our conclusions. We can say in a vivid way that this is a fire budget. It may sound too harsh to someone, but why? Because it's been done in a time frame, and that's why I have an understanding. I have already pointed out that it does not reduce public debt and cannot promote growth. Why? The state budget is an important instrument for fiscal policy or economic policy. If he doesn't have such a charge and we don't have an expansional monetary policy, we're the two most practically important engines of economic growth we haven't put into function economic development. Therefore, this must be taken into account in the next period. In this context we also further conclude, propose and demand, we believe that foreign foreign markets should not be in debt because Croatia has a high external debt anyway. This would endanger bad credit rating or country risk indicators for Croatia anyway. At any cost, to force kuna debt if possible and if necessary in foreign exchanges, then gentlemen, let's ask our citizens who have about 20 billion kuna in foreign exchanges, in banks, would they be buying maybe state bonds if they were already denominated in foreign currency. Why prevent citizens from holding their kuna deposits at 1.5% to 2% and if the state emits a state bond with 4%, 5% that they do not have twice the yield. And what else to say at the very end? In addition to these recommendations and the requirement to refinance the kuna part of the public debt, it is necessary to access the transformation of the second pension pillar in such a way as to allow all citizens to pass through the democratic procedure and freedom of expression to the first or third pension pillar, so there is no breaking over the knee. Such a procedure would reduce, improve state budget indicators, mean reduce the deficit, reduce public debt and correct Croatia's simple rating towards these rating agencies. So the reserves in the system exist and there are large ones. In the next budget or rebalancing, this must be used because more repetitions of the same or similar budgets of Croatia cannot be made out of such a deep crisis. And finally, MOST supports these warnings and requests of this budget. I personally said yesterday that I would be abstentioned and this morning I found out that no grant would be abolished for the transport of students, that the DORH would not reduce the isolation but I heard about it and I think it must be adopted and that science and higher education of 150 million kunas will not be taken. Those were some reasons. And gentlemen, I'm going to finish the presentation, and Seneca said a long time ago when you're at the bottom, it's too late to save. What does that mean? This means what I said earlier that the budget must be an active instrument for economic policy and that this kind of budget that was now made in haste and due to a number of other circumstances simply next time will not be possible as support, or will not be a solution for real economic recovery. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4843	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused a whole series of replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4844	Thank you. A colleague, Lovrinovic, mentioned the CNB, in terms of improving the budget. We will be objective and constructive, so we will not criticise to criticise but there are objections. I hope that you will also be respected through the amendments. In particular, last week was the CNB report. And it's convenient for a comparison so let's see some ratios. We've got six vice governors, we've got 45 directors at the CNB on 600 employees. And so when we combine about with education and with this article that's been reduced, it turns out that eight teachers work for the monthly salary of governors or, say, five teachers work for the monthly salary of leading vice governors. Therefore, Croatia will not be a country of knowledge like this and the prime minister said we owe this to future generations. I agree, of course, that future generations are instantaneous and should be focused and important but not one thing to say, and then specifically in the item you do not show it. So, we'll take on what I said to advocate through a concrete amendment but I pray that what my colleague Lovrinović said is what was at the meeting to really do it, so that it doesn't just remain declarative. Last year, or passed, the government reduced the salary of teachers by 35 years. The opposition at the time, and today's rulings, are horning. We will not participate in left- and right-fires but the fact is that today the average salary of teachers 815 kuna is lower than the average Croatian salary. And it is also a fact that the average salary of Professor 415 kuna is lower than the average Croatian salary. So these are the facts that must be considered and so these things we will try to change through the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4845	Thank you. Is he gonna answer or not? They will? I didn't see it. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4846	I thank you for this question. I can get you on this first part of what you asked about the CNB. I think we'll know a lot more about the costs and the real financial position of the CNB after the State Audit does the job because it means here it is and the Prime Minister said yesterday we won't interfere with that part of monetary policy, they're independent. However, one is a report on work and the other is a report on financial operations. So, you've now listed some items, and these are salaries that are 50%, 100% higher than the prime minister, the president, us here. And you see, for such a waste, the potential grant of HNB to the state budget is reduced. I'm talking about financial business, not monetary policy. And so we see a direct link here, and it's your question, and I think that's what needs to be taken care of, but until the state's audit is doing its research, I wouldn't want to speculate with anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4847	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4848	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Lovrinović, you have asked in the introduction of your exposure to the issue when public debt is high, whether it is high when it is at 80, 90 or when it crosses 100% of GDP. It can be a dilemma and it doesn't have to be. Public debt is high then if they are financed by spending, if he does not go into investment and there is no return. Unfortunately, at a time of crisis, we have just such a situation that our public debt is growing because we have consumption that we cannot cover with economic growth. And that's the problem. And now that we are in a system of excessive deficits and economic imbalances, we must take care of it no matter what we may be able to properly service our debt. But look at it now in this year, the anuities are about 19 billion kuna, the new debt is 25 billion. It will again not result from a little more investment than we will mostly go into consumption, i.e. covering deficits and possibly budget deficits and balance of payments deficits. And your proposal to finance, i.e. the government's borrowing on the domestic market should, in fact, be seen from the point of view of what this means, to what extent the banks will finance the domestic economy. If they focus their resources on the state as a safe believer, the question is how much our domestic economy will be able to finance from domestic sources, domestic banks. The last piece of data I've seen, sources of funding from our banks are in 80% of the amount actually from domestic deposits. Therefore, you really should see What is the policy of banks, I'm sorry, in relation to the financing of the domestic economy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4849	The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4850	Dear Madam and Representative Zgrebec, your two questions are very important. That public-long thesis, it stands, I haven't said it conveniently that it is something better and even at the time of the government, which, so the previous government has increased and statistically, here are the former ministers, public debt in one year. Why? In one 30, 40, billions of kunas. Why? It's the HAC. And you see this, why the HAC? Is that a public debt? It's hypothetical if it all fell apart. However, since Croatian highways have cash flow means those every year earn so much and so much, 700, 800 million kuna on the necessity of restructuring is a different story but this company has its cash flow. Therefore, it is not so problematic for the public debt, i.e. for the balance sheet. There is, of course, the problem of paying off the foreign debt in the short term because over the next 2, 3 years they have accumulated and that is the problem but you have asked a great question. On the other hand, when you mention this thesis that public debt should be financed more on the domestic market and O.K. And that's what you're asking, in fact, and that's what you're saying about the danger of pushing out the private sector because of the lack of money from banks. See, there's a need for monetary policy cooperation and monetary and fiscal policy is working together. And the key problem that I have constantly explained is that in this country, the central bank does not approve of kuna loans to banks, but banks have to invest in foreign exchanges, change into kunas, so that the kunas are approved by businesses and citizens, and thus the entire system is irrevocably exposed to currency risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4851	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4852	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MP Lovrinovic, I must say that I am a little more concerned about Croatia's economic prosperity in the next period after your debate. You said that I would professionally and professorly explain politics through the budget of this government. And the government has agreed with us, and this is the government's first step in this term. And it is the government's legitimacy, however, that first step is driven along the old rails of fiscal and monetary policy. So you claim that debt cannot be reduced, these are financial indicators because growth is not enough to cover debt service. And I am even more concerned with the fact that neither you nor the government has specifically declared social goals through policy fiscal. Are we going to live better at the end of the term, are we going to have bigger salaries, are we going to have more jobs, are we going to get a better job in Europe, are we going to get a better education and will there be better schools? I am interested in declaring social goals both in this year and at the end of your term. Not financial, financial indicators as much as we've reduced or increased. That's why we need a social consensus, a national consensus of objectives when it comes to external debt, no matter how anyone looks at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4853	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4854	Dear Mr. Leco, again a precise and excellent question, in fact two, three questions. I thought I made it quite clear when I said that it was a limitation of this budget and that I made it clear that public debt would not decrease, even something would increase. So, for about three and a half percent points. But we can't get away from numbers. However, there is something called economic policy, because growth in the economy is not only stimulated by what is written in the state budget, so it is a public sector. There is a private sector, there is an international institution, meaning environment, foreign investment, etc. etc. It will be the government's ability that during this period, these other components that are not the state budget will know and be able to activate to go in that direction. And as far as the character of the budget is concerned, what you're asking is what kind of nature it is, it's actually a policy economic approach to the budget. I also made it pretty clear, but here I'm going to highlight one thing polit economical. I emphasized that interest banks were not touched, I guess it takes time to talk to them. But if it doesn't move on, and everything else is touched by vulnerable groups, then it's a very strong policy economic message to the public that it's not acceptable. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4855	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4856	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lovrinović, you must be one of the greatest authorities to comment on this budget. You belong to the professional public who otherwise evaluated this budget, here I quote not reform, not ambitious and without any shift towards serious fiscal consolidation. All planned savings are reduced to compensation for expenditure growth that cannot be avoided as interest, half a percent for past work, new pensioners, and those savings affect the most sensitive social groups through social support cuts, reduction of support for education. We have already heard the intention of reducing transportation for students, reducing youth employment funds, reducing reconstruction support and housing care for returnees, reducing support for minority communities, etc. Which is even more worrying. Therefore, these proposed measures are not accompanied by any arguments, any legislative proposals which should follow. We're in March now. When will your laws come? We'll discuss them by summer. Can savings be achieved by the end of the year at all? So the cost question is completely undefined and I'm afraid of inexhaustible. And what I particularly appeal to you for being part of the Most to be a bridge in some of our amendments to be accepted. Because, as a rule, the amendments to the opposition are never accepted, and there will be sure to be quality proposals that will try to fix this budget as much as possible. You've spoken a lot about the carriage of students who seem to have been solved after all. I would mention here, and I will return to this several times in the debate of a public-private partnership in Varazdin and Koprivnica that wants to be stopped, and the former government has taken over and started a project that will improve the standard of students in Koprivnica and Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4857	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4858	Well, here's Mr. Jovanovic, I also think I may not have been clear enough. I said at first that it was obvious and that's what the finance minister said, I think they are and, I don't know if the prime minister is but the finance minister yesterday that it's really little time. In the first year it's a real circumstance that there's no, that's a grip, that's a zit, right? I'm also unhappy that I didn't get the budget 15, 20 days ago. But obviously that wasn't possible. But what we can say together is that the next budget doesn't come for three days. Right? So, we're talking real here, and I think in this House if someone says anything, we can't understand it, see, this is what he said, or this is what his tone was like. We're here on the same job. And what you said that I like that, that what I think the SDP was complaining about was transport costs. Well, now we're going to propose that we get rid of it together. Right? This won't be a party or a party proposal. This is about the interest of all the students of this country and I think we can do a good thing here. Right? That's what we're expected to do. To expect now in such a cramped circumstance to elaborate something wider I don't think it is, I'll be realistic, it wasn't quite realistic to expect. But that's why I keep seeing you talk, but in the next rebalancing or budget it can't happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4859	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4860	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, just for a little while. Maybe we didn't make it or you didn't follow up. So, here's the deal. We worked hard on both MOST and the minister's side and tried to solve the Immunological Institute, so an additional 32 million kuna was secured for the Institute. The Immunological Institute is a strategic facility for our country and we all recognize it. So far, it has only been intentional, but it has not taken too much or moved in terms of restructuring from a company to a public institution with these additional funds that we have provided in this budget. In fact, in addition to salaries and maintenance, we can actually initiate procedures, start production, and for the following year, as many as 60 million kunas are planned, so that this facility remains in our possession and remains a strategic institution which, meaning, will process our blood, the blood of our voluntary donors, produce blood preparations and initiate the continuation of actually viral and bacterial vaccines, which is actually very important for our country. Every country needs one of these, so a colleague here's just a little correction. It's actually provided enough to continue production in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4861	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4862	Here is a colleague, Strenja Linić, who completed these details because I am unfortunately not able to remember or download all the details. Here I'd say next, be careful specifically. If we have a domestic share of public debt of 150 billion kuna, 5% to 150 billion is 7.5 billion. And if there were to be a refinancing of 2%, beware that all European countries are now being refinanced at 15.5%, 2% on top of the head, that's this new and monetary policy that helps, then if that debt were to be refinanced by 2%, that's 3 billion. 7.5 minus 3.5 billion remains to save the budget. And you know what 4.5 billion is? Everything you asked for and didn't ask for can be covered. And not only that, it automatically reduces deficit indicators, public debt, improves the country's credit rating abroad, and we have completely different performances. But it has to be done now. So obviously it can't be done in 30, 40 days, but now it's got to move into that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4863	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4864	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's my colleague Lovrinović talking about how unfortunately a lot of things are missing with this budget and what's the problem is actually our citizens who don't know what's going to happen to some of their rights and where their lives are going to go. These days, so here's the vice president himself, has confirmed that certain censorships of property or income rights will be introduced. The introduction of any income or property censorship will directly affect the quality of life of people and it would be so important to know what kind of censorship and what rights to be introduced. Social rights have been introduced by an asset censorship, and don't let them tell you he's not here because he has it. And there's no room. You have one right to which you have no property censorship but income is child's allowance. So that's where you can introduce the property censorship. However, it is a question of other categories, persons with disabilities, their disability. There are over 70 and some benefits and rights that citizens receive from the state budget and the question is whether these rights will be introduced by an asset censorship. That would be, for example. meant subsidized travel to islands, so for our people living on islands, if an asset censorship is introduced, they practically remain without these subsidies. So there are a lot of questions that should primarily be given to citizens to know which direction their lives will go in the next year or a year and a half. On the other hand, you should also say what's with the 1,000 euros I'd say about 7.5 thousand kuna for every baby. We found in the budget the item for newborn children so for equipment some increase of 31 million kuna. It may be for law enforcement in the last two or three months of this year. However, the question is why is there no increase in these funds in 2017? So the little budget is illogical. When you look at 2017, there is no increase of 31 million kuna. So it's completely gone. I don't know why it went to taking money for Anna Rukavina, so for one trust and for processing tissue samples that save people's lives? So, these two million kunas that have so far been detached from the budget are now also taken. It won't save anyone, but it saved people's lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4865	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4866	Dear Ms. Opačić, I am not an expert on social policy and I cannot answer your question precisely but I am a supporter of something which is that in Croatia there is a lot of false solidarity. This country is going down on it. What does false solidarity mean? Give the books to everyone, give this to everyone. What kind of censorship will be introduced I don't know but it's necessary. That is why I say I am not an expert in social policy, but these questions must be answered by the Government or by a certain minister with his advisers. But look at one thing, where are the savings? That's what I forgot to say. I didn't have time. There's one item in the budget, it's not visible. Last year, a bank was paid 37 million kuna for factoring services. What's this about? Because instead of the state budget, the bank credited the shipyard because the state did not pay what it promised in time from the budget. Gentlemen, that's not in the budget. So I say next time don't score, we have to, it's 37 million kuna. That's how we could solve some of the things that someone's been looking for. Maybe more. But that only strengthened what I said. Let's not, I think everyone here cares, this is a fundamental document of the state, but we have to take care of the money of the citizens, and that every expense must not be unsettled. It has to be explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4867	Thank you very much. Of course it has to be, but let's not talk about the failures of the last budget, now we're discussing this budget. The distinguished representative, Nada Turina-Đuric, will now be now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4868	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I am going to replicate Mr. Lovrinović as the person who debated today on behalf of the club of representatives, so it represents the position and opinion of all the representatives in that club. And I'll say this, the state budget is a financial document but it's primarily a political document. And what's read from this budget is that it's technically well done. It's obvious that it was the people who were technically managers and I was in my own time and I personally looked back somewhere to hope that they retired and that they would at least make a technically good budget and he did in that sense. However, he as a political document, Mr. Lovrinovic, is completely contrary to what was expected, especially from the Most. If that were just the HDZ budget, I'd even say it was something we expected. He's basically boring, he hides everything and everything in the paragraphs, so he'll probably see how he'll eventually spark, or realize. However, MOST was expected to show this budget as a political document in which direction the government's policy is headed, I would say even the backbone. You can't see that in this budget. You said parole support through your attitude. And I'm asking you from all that talk about reforms what of it you as the person who spoke on behalf of the Most in this budget you see?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4869	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Lovrinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4870	Dear Madam MPs, you are, we don't know each other enough, but I guess by now you've been able to see that I as a man, and now I speak for MOST, but first of all you asked me as a person I'm not here to unconditionally defend anyone, right? But since this is about a single basic document without which this country cannot function either the economy or society, then it's very important to Anticipate, it's important to know. You're asking in which direction they're going to go, where we see these reforms. I'd just repeat one piece, you can't see everything from the budget, of course you can see a lot. And I made it very clear that it would still increase something public debt. I've brought up some negative things that might come up. But I'm also repeating to the government is now to activate other mechanisms other than budgets, other tools, economic policy instruments because there's only one thing that matters here. It is not such a problem whether the deficit will be 3.5% or 3.5%, the key problem is how much GDP growth will be. If it means being stimulated and finding an answer and instruments to do so, then we won't have to worry about it. So it's a mission standing in front of the government and we're just going to see clearly in the coming months where things are going. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4871	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4872	Thank you, President of the Parliament, Mr Lovrinović, so if you want to borrow other people's money then most often you still want to borrow money from determines the interest on which to borrow money or not to lend money. In this process, rating agencies are somehow helping those who lend global money to determine interest rates. Unfortunately, the former prime minister we heard wasn't very interested in these rating agencies, he wasn't interested. But my replica concerns you first of all the Immunological Institute. The budget includes an Immunological Institute of 32.5 million kunas of projected money. So significantly more. However, what we should finally understand in this assembly is that there should be no money for companies in the Republic of Croatia's budget. So we must finally face a painful fact in 2016 if we want to be successful in some game then we need to respect the rules of the game. Our handball players weren't trying to play with their feet, they were playing handball the way the rules of the game were prescribed. Well then, there are certain rules of the game in the European competition, which means professional management, which means that the state should not subsidise any more companies regardless of whether they are strategic or not. And that strategy could be discussed. Is it maybe strategic paper production so we're going to, so the state is going to build a paper factory? So let's just forget the old-time gap between the private sector and the public sector. There are today very successful countries in the world, and these are small, small, because large, important companies are business and products, they are successful and they are strategic companies. So let's give more and forget the stories that strategically is something state-owned. Strategicly, it can be something that's privately owned. And it doesn't mean that it will be less important for Croatia, that it will be less employed and that it will, I don't know, pay more taxes than public companies do most of the time and not be subsidized by the money of all of us. And in the end, I just have to use more, I don't have any more time, but I just have to mention the shooting. I keep hearing about some bickering. Mrs Vuksanovic, you know the bickering is the foundation of democracy or debate in this House, left and right. So everywhere in the world, if you've been to parliament, people are fighting it out, and it is the purpose of Parliament, of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4873	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4874	Mr Milosevic, when it comes to state relations, i.e. public sector view, public enterprises, what is strategic, not strategic, this would finally have to be decided by this House. And I think we should all agree on that once and nominate clearly, define what is strategic in this country. I'm not some big supporter of state-owned enterprises, and I've already said that once, but I'm not because the private sector is entering some segments that I'm sure in advance would not be good. What's this about? I believe that, apart from several perhaps most important segments in many public enterprises, 100% or 75% of the state's share should be reduced to 25%, the rest should be opened as mixed property. But as far as the Immunological Institute is concerned, I don't agree with you at all. It's a matter of blood preparations, a virus means vaccines, it's a matter of national security, such as electricity. And so we saw when we tried to take over the Immunological Institute that there were various ideas but we saw one other thing means that, when it comes to the health of people in one country, that it should be taken care of. But you probably want to say one other thing. The way it is managed in public enterprises is God preserve in Croatia. That's probably what you're trying to say. This is where basic, economic rules should be introduced, one real management, not political management. That's what this is about. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4875	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4876	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lovrinović, I highly appreciate you and here, as you have already heard, I think you are extremely competent to comment on this budget. After your debate, I can conclude that I am very sorry that you have not worked or participated in this budget, because it might all be different. And what surprises me is I'm not clean with myself, I was unhappy and after hearing you, I'm kind of happy, because it turns out that we still have time to fix things because on a few occasions you said in the second budget, we have to on the second budget. The second budget will be in a year. So, the rebalancing you mentioned only once, so it's kind of likely that we'll only be able to fix this for a year that's not good. We are discussing today what we have in these several thousand pages, but you are all informing us that you have information and that you will vote in favour of the budget because we will solve the funds that are missing from the DORH, that we will solve the transportation of students, that here we will solve science and education. You didn't say how we'd solve the immunology, but here's the answer from your colleague. And what we haven't heard the answer, and what I'm extremely interested in is how will people in this budget know what their rights have been abolished since 560 million kunas have been less planned in this budget for compensation to citizens and households. So that 560 million kuna we have to be aware that someone is going to miss them this year. And the fundamental question is how will the people whose rights have been taken survive to another better budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4877	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4878	Dear Mrs Tyrelly, I'll do it again another time if I've said the rebalancing once. Unfortunately, rebalancing is a constant of past governments and we've had them in the past seven, eight years I think all the time. And this speaks of fiscal policy instability in Croatia. Every serious government and country has a budget that means what projections are in two, three years that are stable. No rebalancing. We just need to get into this one situation, obviously. And as for this lack of funds that will get some less benefits from certain social, social groups in Croatia, of course, will make life difficult for them. This will reduce consumption, because we must not forget one thing that if the budget decreases in more important segments, it simply reduces aggregate consumption, aggregate demand and thus leads to a fall in economic activity. So, in that case, he's prophesy. But naturally, the economy doesn't just live off the budget, public finances. I repeat, it's exports, it's personal consumption and therefore investments. But that's why I say now we need to activate other segments of economic policy that will compensate for these negative individual effects of what has been achieved here. According to the word, there is now a government to achieve this in the coming months by activating other mechanisms, instruments. And I repeat, the implementation of the finance of the kuna part of the public debt would solve not only everything that is required here, but much more, and therefore I am more willing to talk about billions, not millions of people who are being pushed around here by more and more people, and the same food is being said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4879	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4880	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So there must be a document in front of us that is the strongest policy, the strongest leverage to run economic policy in one country. And if we look at the little structure that has grown public debt over the past 15 years then you will see that certain political decisions and measures to lead the wrong or not the wrong economic policy has led to its awakening. And that's why this document is very important. However, I would rather debate than enter into the very core of this budget by listening to these discussions of colleagues before me from other clubs ask one fundamental question. How realistic is our readiness for structural reforms? Did we realize what the rating agencies wrote to us that we were bickering about what someone did or that we were going to read what was inside? It says clearly inside you haven't implemented structural reforms, and if you don't implement them in the future, you'll be in a worse situation. It's a simple folk language written inside. So that's the rating and what was before and what they're looking at today. The second thing is whether we are finally ready in this country to take political responsibility and lead to a rational and fair spending of funds in the state budget. What does that mean rationally? Have many institutions, associations, institutions, agencies, agencies that we have established whether because of what the EU has told us or someone else answered the question or tasks for which they have been established. And we've had the past month and a half here all kinds of reports from these agencies, and we've talked about many of them in critical terms. And should we bring them to the point of doing what they are founded for, and in such a way they will encourage many economic activities because they will begin to behave as they should behave for what they are founded for. Are we going to start spending fair money from the state budget? We can have as much political talk here as we want. However, the fair spending of money is the enforcement of social policy based on the law passed by this High House. So it's policy to say how much and what social rights someone will have. But it's also a matter of politics to determine who and how they can get it. Is that family status, is that property censorship, is that income censorship, is that a combination of all three? But my colleagues and colleagues here, I'm asking all of us one question that was in the interest of the OIB not working? Who was it in the interest not to be seen from the top to the bottom to whom it was paid? If the OIB had functioned, the way it was imagined and the way it was supposed to function, it would probably have been much less likely to answer these questions today. Second thing, what's the actual deficit in 2015? Look, we're talking about 2010, 2011 by ESA 2010, but when we talk about 2015 and 2016, then we're talking about some kind of national methodology. Here you have received from the Ministry of Finance, which is the document the Government sent on page 27, that with 31.12.200, there are outstanding liabilities only in the central state of 2 billion and 78 million. What about the Croatian Health Insurance Institute? It was extracted from the Treasury, as it will work much better, but according to the information that comes there is minus 3 billion kuna. I am sure that neither colleague Lalovac nor Linic nor all of us who were before unfortunately managed to squeeze that health care section to finally know how much it costs, how much we have to pay. For the simple reason that you know how much something costs you a year then you can take certain reforms because you must finally say whether you can or can't pay. So I think it's a very important question. But did this budget try to answer some questions, did the government, with this budget, try to send some messages in this very short time? The more the Government simply has nothing left than the previous governments that have taken over the government than to rely on the budget of the previous Government, preferably on the implementation of the budget. But did the Government send a message that it wants to come out of the European Commission's excessive deficit measures with this budget and projections for 2017 and 2018? Is the message that the central government deficit should move around 2.2% and the general government around 2.7% and that there should be a slowdown in public debt growth with significant economic growth and its slight reduction in a certain economic message? But a certain economic message and a political message that we'll be able to discuss in two years whether it worked or failed. Because that's the only way we can talk about whether a certain policy has worked or not. But if we're not ready to implement structural reforms, if I don't believe this is going to be done, then it's very difficult for us to talk about it. Another thing, regardless of what is said, but here are very often discussions on the plan, and not the execution, the government has sent a message that it will protect the most socially vulnerable and that Croatian pensioners, whose 850,000 have a pension under 3000 kuna, will not be touched, however, will be indexed this year. I have already said that the fairer use of the state budget is when the money from the state budget is given to those who need it, not to those who do not need it. Then we'll say we're using funds rationally. It is logical that one who has more taxes in the state budget, and logically, one who no longer has the right to claim from the state budget. That's logic. But it's also logical that one who has less to pay less taxes, that the social state is the one that will give him a decent life. I don't think there should be a fight between us. I, simply political all of us, whether we are democratic, whether we are social Democrats must simply be a consensual question. Not a question of political bickering. Now, will we agree if we say that our goal is how we get to it, there we can differ, but the key question is whether the government has sent a message with this budget to the goal it wants to reach. I agree completely that colleagues on the left of the assembly may have their way, that we on the right have our way, but let's unite around one that our goal is to make fair use of the money from the state budget. To really get them the ones who need them. And also what anyone or not would like to admit to this budget sends a final message that they will better manage state property, that the government will strategically determine what is important for the state, give it some real management way and what is not important to resolve and thus finance the deficit. Another thing, these unfortunate EU funds. We can also argue here as much as we want, but on the spending side we have one item that we cannot fight over, and that is how much of our tax revenues we have to pay in the European budget. So we just have to pay for it. Now, once again, one goal and one point, and that is how successful we will be to withdraw funds from the EU. So why should we have a political fight about it if we have 10 billion or 11 at our disposal, it doesn't matter how much and if we say 9.5 we're going to withdraw. Let's go next year at the 4th month when the budget is carried out see how much has been withdrawn and why it's not so withdrawn. It's the only thing relevant, everything else is stories for little kids. Now let's go to the revenue side of the state budget. And as I said, the structure of the state budget's income is such that it is based on the so-called so-called. consumer taxes. It's a value added tax and it's excise duties. Because these other contributions, they basically, you have them in revenue but you have a much bigger spending side than income from that. So these tax revenues are planned realistically. Because if we're talking about having an economic growth of 2%, if we're talking about that consumption started, then the logical thing is that income is going to be so big. Finally, let's look at what the budget was like in 2015, and you'll see that if it were with a different and not in this way planned revenue then it might be said that they were a little overly planned, etc. I've already talked about EU funds. Expenses, look at your colleagues and colleagues. This is really not my intention to withdraw a political debate. However, page 19 of this material that we have received and the budget explanation is about the famous factoring. Factoring is nothing more than avoiding the year in which the cost was shown as a deficit of the state budget. Because in 2013, in the 14th year, if the Croatian shipyards had received the funds they had received, it should have been shown in the state budget. And please nice. However, what is now happening, of the total resources of the incentives to you 891 million kuna goes to the shipyard, shipbuilding. In this respect, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So that the 500 million kuna is not in the economy ministry's budget this year, counterpart Panenic would have the possibility to point all 500 million and something else. However, see also in 2017 and 2018 this factoring comes to the Government for payment. He will or won't limit the budget of the Ministry of Economy. And that's why I said it, and we have to finally, and that's what I'm going to say in my final part, finally say what that cost is, which is not. Also, increased hospital work. 700 million kuna is owed to doctors. The former minister said he would not pay them, time was spent, and material was spent. Who says he won't pay for it? And finally, finally, open questions. I believe that structural reforms, in fact we at the HDZ Club, feel that structural reforms in the public administration cannot be implemented without amending the law on wages, i.e. without introducing the Payment Class Act. Simple payments, without paying classes, will not result in adequate remuneration of public administration employees and that those who work are paid and that the job and job are paid, not to pay for the chair and the formality. Which is unfortunately now. And then we'll come to the fact that in the total amount of money those who work well, who, as I say products, are also producing certain acts, will be paid better and those who do not work and who only belong to formation... get less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there will be a prerequisite for reducing the mass of the funds and also for rewarding those who work. The management of the public long question is something that my colleague Lovrinovic spoke about, so the public debt management strategy ultimately this high public debt can lead us to earn on it. But let's not fool ourselves that this job will be done by people who have been paid 7, 8, 9, or 10 thousand kuna. This job will be done by people who have been paid 30, 40,000 kunas because it is somewhere adequate for those with whom they will cooperate and work. So you can go public, you can make a debt, maybe it's weird and funny, but it can be earned by people who deal with that job, who are masters of that job. And it's as crafty as any other. But there must be a public debt management strategy to discuss this High House and we on the right and you on the left or vice versa. ... And he has to be made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If possible, Mr. President of the Croatian Government and Mr. Ministers to bring the 2010 budget closer to the ESA in 2010 so that simply some national methodologies etc. We're eliminating. And what should be, if nothing else at the end of the fourth year's term, and that's the register of dues and not the obligations charged. 'Cause this is already getting a little funny who left what to whom to pay. It is precisely known by the ESA 2010 methodology, which has reached rather than the obligation charged. And at the end of the budget risk, the conversion of Swiss into euro, the potential threat of 7.5 billion kuna, the treaty with trade unions. To be honest, this is one question why no clause was used when the decline of two quarters of one percent was applied down, six times was such a possibility over the past four years. Court proceedings and ultimately credit ratings. And our debate today, some of them listen to it, and it'll give us a credit rating. So whether we appreciate them or not, in the end we will all pay interest, whether we are left, right or in the middle, but we pay interest all of us and the interest is determined by the white-world travelers who protect someone's interests and we are too small to fight them. So if there's anything else we need to send a picture that we want to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4881	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the replicas that are 16 this time. I just want to draw attention to a few facts. One is a fact we'll work of course without a break, that's clear. At this point, while ignoring these 16 replicas, we have eight other clubs and 64 individual debates. Without any next replica, that no one replicates at any club, later on, we'll end up somewhere around three hours a night, just so you know how to concentrate. Here it is, and now we'd move on to the replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4882	Dear fellow Shuker, you have asked such a rhetorical question whether we are ready for structural reforms, whether we are ready to take responsibility and to fully base our exposure somehow that your government, or our government, is prepared to do so. However, it seems to me that you are neither ready for structural reforms nor for responsibility. This is primarily seen by the fact that you are calling for social sensitivity, social orientation, but I would say before disorientation. Because if it's taken out of social benefits 100 million kunas what we're talking about then. Yeah? It would still be there, but since this is a two-minute replica, I'll do it for a while. A poor man is not a free man. A poor man is not interested in democracy. Well, it's not the devil that you're interested in being such a citizen and a man like that, is it? From science and education, you have reduced funds by 160 million kuna. You're saving up on the future. Let's say the smaller universities are in an unequal position compared to the larger ones. The University of Osijek was stripped of 15% for construction, for example, I don't know a dormitory while in Zagreb it increased by 22%. And for national minorities, I only speak where I'm on board. For national minorities, you cut the funds by two million kunas, and when we spread it a little bit, then let's say that you took over 5 million kuna from the Serbian National Council. And it wouldn't be particularly tragic if it weren't actually seen as some kind of let's say revenge or rematch because the Serbian National Council is the publisher of the "News" that is here, and they're constantly piling up on how to put it on the cross, crucifying on the cross as an anti-Croatian note, which, of course, is not true. But it's interesting and I'd like to say it again, but it's interesting, let's just say you didn't touch it at church. Now, I really don't want to be the one to say anything against anyone, not even the church. But interestingly enough, perhaps the church should bear the solidarity of all these cuts as well as all other national minorities, education. Just a second more, social, church nothing. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4883	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4884	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So probably what will happen again and during some other replicas should be watched to carry out the budget. So here's the budget plan. Making a budget is something else. No, the implementation of the 2015 budget and when you look at the execution then you will see that the items of this budget that rely on the execution of last year, then it looks quite different. Oh, yeah, I'll repeat today probably more oho ho times whether we're ready to implement structural reforms. Let's not just say it when we like it, and at the same time, we'll push it here and there. You must have a clear goal. You can only implement structural reform if you know what you want to achieve. And it could happen on that road and some kind of mistake. And the thing with the students, there's been a mistake. The government honestly admitted it, submitted its own amendment, settled this school year and said what they would try to do for the next school year. Is that correct and fair? So if it appeared somewhere else you'll see and at the end of the year how much the government's decision will redistribute between the positions because our budget is at that level and it's very difficult to predict consumption, so you'll see that certain positions will change and so agree. But I repeat, it's important whether certain messages can be read from this. I've talked about some, and I'm very ready with them, with every debate about these messages. Schooker
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4885	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4886	Comrade Shuker, you have begun your debate about the fact that the budget is the best leverage to run the economic policy that we can agree on but also vice versa. So it is also a means, but in some ways and the consequences of a certain economic policy. Unfortunately, I have to say that if it is so that I can conclude that here, this very budget does not result in any particular economic policy that you indirectly acknowledge. Because there are no major reform shifts. You criticized while you were in opposition to a series of laws in fiscal policy, etc. which the former government has proposed. But you've kept them all, there's no change. One year and more are all of us from HDZ with info institute, with new economic policy, new economic measures, etc. Announced. Unfortunately, we don't see anything in the budget. So I'm saying this not because I'm in opposition, so I'd be criticizing the criticism for it, but I just don't see anything optimistic or new. And that's what we have to confess to ourselves. The whole budget is therefore based on revenue growth. It is based on GDP growth that emerged from the past government, which is simply true. What you yourselves are predicting in this budget, unfortunately, I'm afraid it's not standing. For example, you predict a growth in income from the sale of shares and shares in companies, so from the sale of companies, shares in enterprises, from privatisation. I don't really know what you think here's the end of the third month how you plan to make that 1.8 billion of it. It's just that I'm afraid of inexhaustible. I'm afraid you're planning something that's unrealistic, or you're going to do it quickly, or maybe you've already agreed with some of those sales, so the question is that it's technically done through the procedure. But anyway, I think it's absolutely unrealistic or it's going to be done the way it shouldn't be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4887	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4888	So look, colleague Jelusic, if you look at my annual budget debate last year and try to compare it to this one, you'll see that there's not exactly what's going on with you. So, I've not once said that this budget is based on the execution of the previous year. In order for the budget to change, given its structure, that 92, three percent of the budget is set by certain laws, rights, these ones, you, in order to do so, must change that. But to also change certain rights, you must have communication with the people to whom it applies. Structural change, just cutting rights without structural reforms will get us nowhere. And as for state property management, I think for the past five, six years, we've had big revenues in each budget from the sale of state property, so it ended up as it ended. Well, let's hope this year ends better. But if you won't predict, if you won't try anything, then you won't do anything. But let's remember last year and last year how planned the proceeds from the sale of assets were, over 4 billion kuna. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. I'm not saying it was the government's fault, I never said it that way, but I was saying it in the way of that property's problem. We're saying we have 32 billion, but the real value of it is somewhere else. That's our real problem. I think the economic ministers of the former government know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4889	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4890	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Schucker as former minister, and there's still one in the assembly, I know you're competent to talk about some things. However, when I look at the debt of an unpaid tax of 50 billion kuna, if I'm wrong, correct me, it's basically almost half the budget. Therefore, part of it means our state's social policy and the whole policy is partly to blame for not charging taxes and of course there are large fish that have spread well throughout Croatia without paying taxes. So this is what I'm telling you as former minister, and I can tell this fellow Lalovec, but it's not about him. The replica is of course. Of course, this government has to make analysis of offices, administrations, counties, municipalities, decentralisation of funds, so it will be easier to organise education, local self-government. Of course we need to talk about it and spend it. Of course, there should be a guide to boldness because this is what the people expect of us and accepts from us that the state means that both financially and human and potential is decentralised towards the periphery of the Republic of Croatia so that it is not all in one place and that it is the center of decision-making. And I'm only saying this because of undeveloped areas that have been forgotten by all governments so far. This government will obviously have to take care of it and is essentially the key to the problem of the development of the Croatian state in terms of regional structure throughout the area. A very important element, a lot of funding until it reaches local self-government stays in the county. How many employees are there? Who knows? And so in other agencies, administrations. The former president's office, let's say, Stephen Mesic, now he's been rewarded for life and has an office. Yes, during your time, these also supported you. What's the point of that office?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4891	Thank you. Here, will be answered by the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4892	My friend Bulj, it's best not to take advantage of something... I listened patiently to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So many have talked about the tax, and the order of the former prime minister of the IRS went to run an analysis of why something was not paid. The IRS has made it, but the facts are what they are. In 2002, the Law on the collection of profits and outstanding claims was passed, and 22 billion kunas were then spoken of. A tight interest rate was averaged between 14 and 18 of these 12 years, so calculate and you'll see. On the other hand, according to official data from the IRS, not counting the crisis in 2009, it's about 98.5%. Which is among the highest percentages in Europe. And it's not good to throw numbers. The second thing, the number of 50 billion is not true. And the third thing is, if someone tried to do something to someone, they wouldn't record it, put it in debt, and charge him interest. Because if you record someone having to pay that much and that much, if they're counting interest on them, then no one can amnesty alive, he'll have to pay for it eventually. And the logical thing is to charge everything that goes into the state budget so that redistribution can be done. But while we're talking so much about local self-government units, I hope the report will come about the collection of local self-government units, so you'll see, except for a few major cities, what is the percentage of the municipal fee in those units of local self-government. Just as many units of local self-government charge... So I let you talk, you let me talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's what local self-government units do, it doesn't work for the state. And about decentralisation together we can pass the law, in the end we're in the ruling coalition, and we'll agree on what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4893	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4894	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you mentioned one term for a fair execution of the budget. Well, now I'm wondering if it would be fair to respect the commitments made by the former government? I think it would be. And that in this budget all the commitments made by the former government should be continued. Here's two examples. So I ask that you, as club president, influence this amendment to be accepted. The first concerns the public-private partnership model. In Varazdin County and Koprivnica-križevci County, where in 2013, the government signed a contract and took over 55% of its commitments in the realisation of a project covering as many as 33 buildings. These are 32 schools in Varazdin County and 1 in Koprivnica-križevci County. According to this commitment, 20 million kunas were to be found in the 2016 Budget, and they are not available. I appeal to return that amount because it's actually stopping a project for 33 school facilities in those two counties. And secondly, we got all the letters, no prime minister, but he got the minister, the chief of Babina Greda Municipality where the construction of the school hall started in March 2014 and the estimated value of 22 million kunas, the contract signed and, of course, what usually happens when public procurement is badly done not because of the municipality's chief but because of our regulations. The performer quickly proved completely incapable of completing the school so that a cave that currently stands at 2200m square depths of 6m is attached to the school and practically threatens to collapse and the school. In order for all of this to be resolved, a broken contract with the performer has been opened, a new competition has been opened, a new performer has been set up, a construction project from Slavonski Brod. However, this budget provides for 800,000 kuna, which means practically nothing. In order for this project to be implemented in the first place, so as not to bring the school down, 9 million kuna and 9 million kuna should be secured this year and the hall should be ready in a month. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4895	Thank you very much. They will answer, the hall is well-known by the well-respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4896	Yes, my colleague Jovanovic, I agree with you when I spoke, but when I spoke about the fair execution of the budget, I thought of something else and I explained it. But to you, I will pull the parallel, the elementary school of Novo Čice, the Great Gorica, you've come to be minister, you've lost consciousness. In the end, the town of Velika Gorica was funded, Minister Molnar said it would pay otherwise the school would never be finished. The European basketball championship, the tourist community says it is a top event for the promotion of Croatia until it becomes Ivan Shuker president of the basketball union, then it is not a top event and suddenly the European championship where the opening was in Zagreb, all the countries of Europe were transferred, the basketball alliance did not get that money. So much for politics, I disagree with that approach. The public private partnership, my colleague Cacic and I can talk about it the most here in this hall was the project of the Varazdin County and this was started by counterpart Cacic and then the project was about the units of local self-government financially risky, it is a fact. There were certain political arrangements to get rid of it. You've politically solved it because it was such a political constitution. But I'm in favour of getting rid of it politically and in the future, because I think if we did, and then there are official documents that it's a political, actually financially risky facility, children and citizens and those units of local self-government and regional self-government, they just have to find the means to get rid of it. And I fully agree with you. That's why I was talking to my colleague Jovanovic about that register of fines and not the obligations charged, where all short-term and long-term obligations will be clearly recorded, and then there is no political right to measure a government's decisions under this or that segment. And I think that in Croatia, if we want to do well in this country, we must finally start acting that way. And I sincerely hope as you... that I will support, that you will support when the budget for 2017 is, that you will support such a conclusion of the HDZ Club if it is not proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So register of contracted and contracted... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4897	Thank you. And the next replica is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4898	You say a colleague and you're absolutely right when you say it's a matter of politics who's going to and how they get social status. However, it is a good policy to preserve the social order, peace and social status of those most, the good social status of those most threatened in all times, especially in difficult times. The abuse, of course, is beyond any doubt that they should be prevented. But that's no reason to reduce the rights of those who have those rights in these times and most needed. The government's reform shears caught schoolboys, their parents, unemployed, minorities and social benefits users. And in the reduced participation of the state in transport costs, the total amount of compensation for citizens total but also the expenditure of the state for employment programmes has been reduced and support for the cultural autonomy of minorities by 11%. The government now, since it's been pressured by the public, says it's found in the budget, so as an honest finder, it pays back the money for the transport of students. And it actually shows in the very beginning that the government is actually working as old Fico to push. I'm telling you, my colleague, that just because of these cuts, it's obvious that the government has declared war on the social state. And I can tell you that Croatia will either be and remain a social state or it will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4899	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4900	Comrade Ingrid, Croatia will be a social state when aid from the state budget is received only by those to whom it belongs. ... I'm asking you nicely, that's why I said it was a matter of politics. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So this is where we make the laws. And I was with the former Deputy Prime Minister when we talked about these things very often here agreeing on this debate, he can now confirm. Why? That's why we're talking about the goal again. It doesn't matter what the path is, it's important that we know what we're trying to achieve. And the goal will only be achieved if all those who do not have the right to social assistance are eliminated. And that's why the OIB was introduced, but that OIB stopped halfway. And that's why when you talk about these other things, I would advise you to look at the budget. You can't tell if someone did something last year and he planned 20 or 30% more that this government reduced that by 20%. No, she just stayed on track for what was done last year and will see in next year whether there will be opportunities for what was done last year to increase. But I'll tell you one more thing, I was talking about factoring. Did you know that the Minister of Agriculture paid off an advance in 2015 for 800 million kuna and it should not have been paid in 2015, but it was 2016. Ask, there are no colleagues, Roma, the Minister of Agriculture today, that's a billion and 300 million. If those billions and 300 million were not burdening this budget, then the story would probably be quite different and probably also former ministers would view some things differently if some things hadn't been pushed away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4901	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4902	Thank you very much. Mr. President, before I begin with the replica, I'll warn you that there is no proposal in the assembly, so there is no Prime Minister or Minister of Finance, more than half the government means to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4903	They do, the other ministers are here and the Minister of Finance is coming back now. I can't tell you why he went out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4904	All five ministers, let the Croatian public hear it. All five ministers are sitting in the Croatian assembly while the document is being proposed. So there's no quorum, no prime minister, no finance minister. The other thing that actually prompted me to argue and the replica is Mr. Shucker's debate that took place in one I would say brotherhood and unity style. So we know where our goal is, we're all together, we all know each other, let's do the job on the left, on the right, it's important that we get to the finish line. And then he throws out a few of these or usual not only his own, but usually people say structural reform, a fairer society, and it was a debate. No concrete indicator in which direction this should go, in what way, which means structural reform in general did not explain it in any segment of its debate. And then he hooked up to the debts we had left behind. Oh, no? But as people remember, then they remember the 2011 budget and 2.2 billion kuna of unrepresented debts inherited by the government in 2011. You can look at that, Mr. Shuker, you weren't loud at the time, you weren't warning about it, you were ignoring it. So the fact is, the state exists, the state works. Some do their jobs and do not need to cry at the start of each term if a job is started and is to be done in the following year. But that's obviously the continuity I'd say is a little bit of oblivion that rules with Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4905	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond. As you can see, the minister is here. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4906	Mr. MP, you should know the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, then the provision for half of the ministers should refer to the current morning. And for everyone else, for the current morning, Mr. Maras, read a little bit. Don't. ... This is called political primitiveism, by the way. [[You can't hear it.]] So, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament says that only during the current morning must it be, the Prime Minister must provide more than half of the government members. And by all points of the agenda, it is defined by whom the Government has decreed that it can represent the government according to the agenda. So that's it. The other thing is, I've sent clear messages and I haven't talked about a thing, but that's why I said that in the future we don't get to fight as much as anyone left behind. Let's finally make for the benefit of all of us that register of outstanding outstanding liabilities and the register of agreed commitments. So does that cost us anything? And after all, it all comes back to light again, and it all comes back to light again. And I don't think we have any need to be politically bickering about it. If we're not politically prepared for this, then isn't it logical that for some of the crucial things in the state and about social policy and something we try to find if we can consensus. If we can't, we're responsible for politics and we're gonna push it like you pushed things. Some of us agreed, some of us disagreed. Well, that's politics for the good Lord. However, your political rhetoric is to insult, to speak unargumentedly. I said it on behalf of the club what I said. I had no idea to comment on what counterpart Milanovic was saying on behalf of the SDP club. If I had something to say to him, I'd say it like this. He said what he thought I should say, I told him what I meant to say. You have not brought forth a single fact with which you would pollemize with me, and that is your problem, because you cannot pollemise with anyone because you do not know anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4907	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4908	Dear colleague Shuker, in your speech, I quote: "The policy is to determine what kind of social policy will be run and who will receive it." It's a finished quote. And I totally agree with that. It's an accurate finding and the government's policy has shown for the welfare is reducing the funds of 100 million kuna. It's political will. They will suffer the most sensitive, and that is political will, legitimate. You run such a policy. Hit the most sensitive. But I'm not answering that for 10 times or 15 times, I'd draw your attention to that. I think that this policy of yours directly endangers national security. Here's why. A meeting of the War Veterans Committee was held this morning. The board president didn't invite reporters. For what? In order to avoid the fact from this budget that 48 million kuna is provided for by the Ministry of Defence. Social care for a defense attorney from 910 to 862 million. Helped from $2 million to 1 and a half million. So for crutches, for wheelchairs, you're reducing resources for defenders. Rehabilitation 8% less, hiring defenders from 13.8 to 9.9 million. Now, why do I think that puts national security at risk? So because part of the defenders gathered around Glogoška and Clem went out for no reason in their Templar uniforms, took gas bottles out on the road, used to come to Mark's square to beat the cops for no reason when the prime minister invited them to ask them why, they didn't know why. And what will be done now that they have 48 million kunas less? I'm afraid the citizens will die. I can only tell the defenders to stay calm, because this improvised experimental government will end its mandate very soon. When we get back, we'll pay them back 48 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4909	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4910	Comrade Stazic, I always admit I have your rhetorical abilities. But unlike your rhetorical abilities, I handle numbers. So if you had given yourself the effort and looked at the implementation of the budget for Croatian defenders, then this debate of yours would not be offended by the effort of the players because the defenders got what you gave them last year. The lip hasn't been reduced either. And because you wanted to deceive them, you showed them that you'd give them more, that's the second pair of shoes. That's the second pair of shoes a fellow intern. Another thing, someone else beat them up and tried to enter St. John's Church. Mark here in this square. But I repeat, and these social benefits you've been saying, let's go and see my colleague Stazic execute. And when it's done with the state budget, then we'll talk about it together. And if what you're saying is true, and it's not true, so the lip is less secure in the budget than it was in the budget last year and here on page 27, if I'm not wrong about the reasons of the state budget, you'll have a list of outstanding liabilities from 31.12.200 and you'll see exactly how many defense departments have shown that haven't paid off. I can even tell you that here, if I can find it, then it's all written to you. But I repeat, you can't say you gave something you didn't give. You can't say that something was taken from someone you wouldn't give them and that you wouldn't give them. Thus, the budget comes from what was the end of last year, and it is certain that the new laws on the rights of Croatian defenders will take good care of the Croatian defenders. Don't just ask as nicely as the dear God to take care of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4911	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4912	Thank you, President of the Parliament. You mentioned structural reforms so far, I think we've shown that time and money are resources that don't matter to us. Since we didn't care about time or money, then now we're in a situation where we don't have time or money anymore, and then it's really the ultimate trend to start structural reforms. And that word of reform has already been so strained that we may need to come up with a better word instead of reform or what this government needs to do. After that plan of root changes, I will say what is to come or what must follow and what we all must advocate and that is to speed up economic growth. Only through the acceleration of economic growth can fiscal consolidation be achieved, debt reduction relative to GDP, and in the end, there will be money for everything that many have talked about today with the best intention. And in the end or in parallel, I hope that the government will come out with a plan of tax discharge and economy and citizens. Because so far, I hope we all learned together that higher taxes bring lower economic activity, lower consumption of citizens, and higher debt. So, so far, by increasing taxes, we haven't been able to achieve what we thought. And finally, I must say, you mentioned a potential threat to the state budget of 7 billion kuna for the Swiss franc. Mr. Milanovic also had a need to talk about it. Well, I suggest that when he gets here, God forbid if he comes and that bill comes and we send that account to the SDP, so I'm sure they'll pay, since they don't care about this country's credit rating and they don't care. And they probably have money to pay those 7.5 billion for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4913	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4914	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, no matter what we call change, can we call them structural reforms, anyway, but the key thing is that Croatia until the economic growth of 3, 3.5% is very difficult to talk about structural change in both income and expenditure sides of the budget. Croatia until it has a million and 650 thousand employees in Croatia will be very difficult to talk about, in fact, not to mention the problem of pensions. So these are the facts. Croatia has had a decline in public debt in GDP for 3 years, but do you know when? Three years when economic growth was over 4% and the deficit was coming down. And when the deficit came to below the annual GDP growth, the logical thing to do was to reduce the share of public debt in GDP for the simple reason the need for borrowing was smaller, and what the economy and everything created was growing faster. So that's a fact. And otherwise, when we talk about those who are most responsible for the creation of the Croatian state, which are Croatian defenders so that there will be no confusion and no one will say tomorrow, there is not so much left for them and so much paid. According to this data from the Ministry of Finance, there are no obligations for Croatian defenders not paid in 2015. So this story is that we've lifted something, etc. It just doesn't stand because nobody planned to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4915	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4916	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do for my colleague Schucker. One sentence that I agree with, and that's that politics decides who they're going to give something to and that the system has to be just. But that's the difference between you and us, you're democracies, we're Social Democrats, and we're actually trying to protect those social rights in 4 years. On the one hand, we have introduced order and I now guarantee that when it comes to social benefits there is order. You may find it at the level of statistical error but as in any European country, people who may have slipped somewhere under the grain. Somehow I think we should turn the whole story around. So we're always talking about taking some kind of right, some kind of restrictions. It would be better to talk about how to open jobs and hire these people, because these people who are on social benefits, in fact, from year to year, everything that stays on social benefits will be harder and harder to find a job in the real sector and more and more difficult to hire. I don't mind if you decide on the property census, the income census of whatever kind of censorship. I said here when I was telling Mr. Lovrinović the replica only the government has to say in which direction it goes all the way so people know. Why? Because when, for example, Going to income censorship is very dangerous to determine. So it's a very sensitive question where you're going to determine that censorship. So, just one kuna up or down someone's going to get into that census or they're going to come out of it. It wouldn't be good if one part of that little bit of maybe some middle layer that we have left to submerge with some kind of income censorships actually below the level at which they are now living. There's very few of those I'd say turbo rich, very little. Maybe 5% of them are in the Republic of Croatia, not anymore. What you're about to put on the income and asset censorship isn't going to touch them too much. But this one part of the middle layer still as much as it somehow keeps its head above the water wouldn't be good, so you need to be very careful about it. I remember when we decided for example. about that limitation of social benefits. We went to that minimum wage because it's not right for someone who works in the textile industry to live on a minimum wage to live better but it's very tangible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4917	The Honorable counsel Shucker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4918	Thank you very much. Comrade Opacic, I'm glad you've replicated it this way, that's proof that we can discuss it. So when you talk about minimum wage, that's one kind of income censorship. It doesn't matter how you determine it, whether it's below, whether it's earned, or whether you determine the upper limit. However, in Croatia today you have many types of profit. It's not what it used to be. However, what we will certainly discuss in Croatia is why I spoke in my debate on behalf of the club, it is family status, property status, property censorship and income censorship. Because you have traditionally in rural areas that all property is practically on, what you say to the head of the house and the real situation is quite different. But if we're going to edit the state, then we need to start doing it slowly and then it's about family status. There are also documents in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Care where the leading experts in the Republic of Croatia have dealt with these topics, as well as the leading consultants of the World Bank and elsewhere who have been trying to give us advice. But when I said it was a matter of politics, I thought in the context that politics was the one that proposed the law. And when that law, meaning politics, is passed by political will, then we can't say that politics is not what determines it. Because after all, politics determines everything. Politics determine whether there will be structural reforms, politics determine whether we will give money to shipbuilding, agriculture, all determines politics, if we will paraphrasise it. But it all defines through some regulations. But then the key question is whether in Croatia we want to slowly throw out the budget of those who do not belong by some standards that we will agree here. No one's gonna set those standards anywhere else. And from here on out and slowly work order in the state. We can't do it any other way. Because making order can only be done if we control money, it's the same as home. If you don't watch how you spend it, if you don't watch it and spend it with energy, then don't be surprised at the end of the month when you get a big bill for energy. That's the same story with the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4919	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4920	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you said in the introduction structural reforms should be implemented, which requires agreement. I agree it's just a matter of structural reforms which means who. The debate should also be opened and the state budget is an opportunity to talk about it. You're talking about structural reforms of the state sector and the public of course. But it certainly isn't enough. One part has an important impact on the state budget, it is a pension and health system. He can't be solved in one year, and I don't even think in one term of office. And now we open debate II. Retirement pillar. We need to know what II is. The pension column, if it remains, is abolished, which will be, the citizens must know, those who pay in II. Retirement column. As far as the health system is concerned, which will be a higher level of services that citizens will have to pay. This cannot be solved once, in one year, the debate should be opened and it should be known. Unfortunately, at this point, we do not know how these reforms will go. And that's why we say that this is, someone said already there, the continuity of the state budget. Maybe he couldn't have been any different at this point, but let's open that debate. What would be the most important structural reform? Those in that segment affecting participation in the state, the growth of the state gross product. And without greater economic activity, we'll never get out of these problems. Greater economic activity means new investments, means new employment. But we need to open a debate about this, and we need to know what the government's policy is. Neither the guidelines for this year nor the next two years relating to the state budget nor the government programme presented to us, we do not unfortunately know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4921	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4922	Comrade Zgrebec, I'll start with what you started, so retirement, health care. On the one hand, these two contributions undermine the competitiveness of the Croatian labour price, destroying the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. On the other hand, what should be financed from these contributions creates a government budget deficit of some 16 billion kuna. So we have two things that are opposing and we can only solve them in some years in the future to hire us another 300, 400 thousand people. On the one hand, payment in the contribution will increase, on the other hand, tax revenues will increase. And so it's the only way. And when we talk about reform, so I'm here to touch something that we have to start with, which is the system, the pay law, the pay grade system. We need to stop paying formality in the state administration. Just because someone's sitting in a chair, let's say we take intensive care of medicine. You have doctors, nurses working inside, taking care of severe patients, but you also have some who don't even get into that room. However, they belong in intensive care and all have a 20-percent add-on. We want to talk about the M.O.P., talk about school and everything? So the point is that those who really work and get a job for that job that they do, and those who don't work for God, should they get rid of it? So today it's harder for you to fire someone in the state administration than to get a jackpot, a Euro jackpot. Well, you know what that means, what procedures it is, how many courts it is, like you don't know what you've done. But if there's no one there all the time someone's saying we have preliberal labour legislation, then we can't close our eyes in front of that. Or we'll say OK. We agree with that, and then we have to give up some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4923	Thank you. The next one appeared for the replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4924	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you started your discussion with the concept of structural reforms and ended. That way my replica will go. Any budget should in my opinion have a certain stamp or signature. In other words, the direction the government will go. What I object to this budget has no seal or no direction in which the government will actually go, especially this part of which you are talking about, which is structural reforms. Minister Maric said by explaining the budget that he was prepared realistically and conservatively. And it really is. I'd even call him if it was the bowling alley budget. You know, the bowling alley is a cake that's being prepared to be poured into a specially prepared mold and then it's quite delicious but it just has to be what the mold is. Structuralally, when I talk about structural reforms, then we must say that they must be equally acceptable both from the job position and from the capital position, and we cannot mention labour legislation reforms. And as the Bible says, everything has its own time, so I think that every government must have priorities. So as not to tell me what the prime minister once said, the former government has not implemented reforms which are not true. The former government carried out reforms in the conditions and conditions it encountered. If we see who's talking more about internal debt today, the fiscalization project, shipbuilding, a lot of things have been done. And what we still have to mention, structural reforms are not technically neutral procedures. We have economic growth, we need structural reforms to sustain this economic growth, even increase it. I am also sorry that we do not see it in this budget and that we do not see these guidelines that would actually enable these structural reforms, above all, to achieve competitiveness. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4925	Thank you. The Honorable counsel Shucker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4926	You see, fellow Zhagar, they have certain parameters that measure whether someone is successful or not, we don't need to talk, did we do something or didn't. Simply certain indicators speak, so in the past government was left with chaos like this. But look, this country that has been in chaos, which has not implemented reforms, has completed negotiations to join the EU. Now you can think that those in Brussels are the deadbeats to say so, and they've accepted such an unsettled state. Well, some things had to be done to meet the criteria for you to come in. So today I didn't even think to say that the last government didn't implement the reforms. The results are what they are. I have not once said that economic growth in Croatia is the result of inert, because those around us grow much faster than we do and drag us. Secondly, when I talk about these unfortunate exports, let's be aware that many Croatian entrepreneurs went to the European market themselves and started selling the products themselves until Croatia was a member of the EU that could not have happened. Or, for example, Croatia is a tourist country. You rent car houses in the fifth month sing for about 350 million cars, cars and then in 10 months for 300 million and cars return. However, according to the methodology, these 300 million are treated as exports, and I know how much I know Croatia does not produce cars. But look, as it was in this government, that's how it's going to be this year for this government. So, I'm not gonna say they faked something. It's just a methodology. But we need to be facts, structures and what generates our industrial production, which generates our exports. But what is crucial, which is that we unfortunately lack employment. You look at, say, January, we're talking about high growth in industrial production. However, when we look at the employment of January 2014, in fact January 2015, you will see a decline in employment. Then all of a sudden we start talking about high productivity and if we haven't taken a single parameter to make sure that this growth in industrial production is due to high productivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4927	The next replica of the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4928	In your presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, you said that regardless of the different paths the position, opposition and different parliamentary parties are taking, that you would like us to agree and that we must agree on one, which is that the money from the budget is really given to those who need it. I agree with that, too. However, do you really think it is necessary to go through savings on students, where the biggest budget loss will be the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, as many as 159 million kunas. I don't think that's the right way to go. It is the students, students, our schools, our universities, the system of science that we should not at all consider in the system of savings but in the concept of investment. And when you say that a single amendment will solve the problem of co-financing between local transportation of high school students from Thursday to today, I have to defuse you. You and I both know that's not the case. It's just a fire strike that's trying to actually control the damage that's been done from Thursday to today. But the only thing you're going to do with that amendment is give up on reducing co-financing from 75% to 50% for these three months, meaning April, May and June. It's been gone since September. This will fall on the burden of units of local and regional self-government which, of course, they will not be able to compensate those 25% simply, and then the ultimate measure will be that it will fall to the burden of families who will have to re-choice which child will send to high school in order to get a first qualification, in order to succeed in employment, and who must stay at home for school costs. We're not going to solve any changes to the government, we're just going to get a solution to the problem out in two, three, four months. And according to the projections for the seventeenth and eighteenth, it's not good for the disciples.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4929	Thank you. The Honorable counsel Shucker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4930	Comrades, look, I read here in materials that the Ministry of Education, Science, Education and Sports is, there are 42 million earned and unpaid obligations. It means that the execution was below the oho plan, oho, and since that 42 million will have to be paid in 2016 means that the Minister in 2016 you practically took 42 million opportunities to create some expenditure. Another thing, let's see when the budget comes and then make a copy-pass, and we'll see how real the difference between what's been done and what's planned in this budget is. ... So let me tell you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4931	I'd pray we don't throw away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4932	As far as transportation is concerned, both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister said the government is going with the amendment to address the transport problem for this school year. Whether the transport costs will be based on the income principle or property censorship in the autumn is the second pair of shoes. I will tell you honestly mine and any child of us in the National Assembly should not subsidize transportation. It's just a fact. But that's why those who don't have a child give 5 kuna for a country sandwich not to be financed but to finance a transport with 100% and should be given 20 kuna for a sandwich. Then we'll talk about a fair state. And why would someone who received 10, 15, 20 thousand kunas receive money from the state budget? That's the facts. Well, look, sometimes in socialism, ZET had a show and we all paid it so much and so much for that story. There's a show like that today. But this is about a subsidized show. If we're a social state, then we're really a social state if we give it to those who need it. We're not a social state if we give money to those who don't need it and we could put it on the other side to those who already need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4933	Thank you. Please don't throw away. I would now give my word for the replica of Honorary Representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4934	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, in this draft budget, colleague Schuker lacks a very important component that was mentioned here this morning, so minimally so says what we have defined in the Ministry of Regional Development together with the Ministry of Finance, which is a minimum of 40 million liquid aid for mountain and mountain areas. Let me just say what this is about. So, after we introduced these indices of famous development, after 100 municipalities entered a system that had never been in the system and had the opportunity to get support from the state for their development, mahma, so 95 of them in Slavonia and northern Croatia came to the problem of the unit in mountain and mountain areas because they were still developed and they came out of the system. We respected all the objections of the people on the ground, so from these units, and designed one system. One meeting was even with the President of the Republic there, and we agreed on what measures these measures would be and we adopted these measures. One of the key ones came into force on 1 January of this year with an increased share in income tax for mountain-mounted areas. And another key measure was defined as a minimum of 40 million kuna per year of current aid to be distributed according to the development index, which was actually the idea of installing it into the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget because it is common to such measures. As it is now in the law stands for the refund of that tax on units that have been in areas of special state concern. Here, this actually solves this problem that my colleague Bulj pointed out here this morning, and several times it was repeated here in the assembly room. I definitely believe that we did our part of the job. So here, if it's possible to put that 40 million in and solve that problem for those units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4935	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4936	... a tax revenue redistribution project that local self-government units have lost nearly a billion and 800 million kuna. [[Specially enabled.]] And all this talk of being given to more Croatian citizens with the basis of an increased untaxable act, etc. It all fell on the back of the local self-government unit in principle. Another thing, looking here, they say the Ministry of Regional Development has practically fulfilled all its obligations. Is this amount that you were talking about in relation to the plan so reduced? You know well that there are criteria which, people remain the same at the Ministry of Regional Development, which have worked with you, there has been a change of minister and two, three assistants all the rest of the old employees. So, the same people who prepared the laws for you were making a proposal for this budget. So I guess they knew what they were supposed to do. Tolusic certainly did not tell them to reduce the mountain-mounted area to 40 million. But I say we wait for the execution and we'll see. The second thing is, when we talk about local self-government units, the question is whether we've made the most difficult transition from the field of special state care with these new development indices and whether unfortunately there are many local self-government units left affected because when we see today only those ads in the houses are sold, then I think we've all missed the policy quite together and that we have to run that policy in the other direction. And that's job creation, and then this is all easier to solve in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4937	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4938	Thank you very much. You're wondering why the SDP is attacking this budget. I don't know, you might have skipped, but they recently attacked their own budget, the SDP budget. a report on how they spent their assets as a party and concluded that they run their finances as a piece of nostra and that if they said everything. If they gave all the numbers out there to make it work for the DORH, BREAK and all the other bodies. This is what they concluded on their own, it is not HDZ that they have concluded as members of the SDP themselves. And I attribute it to their loss of identity because there is currently a struggle between the plant and animal world. And we follow that every day. And that is why they happen to be able to sign all reforms at the same time and be at the same time against all reforms. Then they get a statement from the former finance minister saying listen, the budget is bad because it's the same as ours since last year. And what to say now, we voted for that one and we won't vote for this one. We voted for that one and we won't vote for this one. But I say we shouldn't be afraid because we know what the SDP is about and we're listening today. They're against cost cuts, states, against increased fund usability. They are against fighting this high public debt, we see that they are against both deficit cuts and therefore they will vote against this budget and that is their natural position and the right to be so. It's up to us to do everything they didn't do and they could and should have done while they were in power and then there shouldn't be a problem and the SDP let the attacks continue to move in space, so let the attacks and these numbers because I say while they were in power they were lucky numbers and now that the opposition they are unfortunately unfortunate figures for them. But, well, naturally, it's their right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4939	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4940	... colleague Boric, we had the opportunity to hear this morning on behalf of the president of the SDP who spoke praises about the successes of his government and this should be respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man gave his opinion. However, the result of this government is the implementation of the 2015 budget. Now we've seen today and through replicas of objections in many positions but they're actually objecting to themselves because they haven't implemented the plan, because if they had implemented the plan then we could say that with our plan we're planning lower and they went under the plan because they wanted to show that their deficit is going to be much smaller, so this list of these 2 and a few billion kunas. But I'm interested in my colleague, Boric, who will pay the doctors about 700, 800 million kuna of spent material and spent work for certain checks and all the things they were supposed to do. Now hospitals are sending invoices, but HZZO is returning invoices because they see that they have no right to invoice it. And those costs exist. It's probably going to be re-proposed some sort of recovery or something, but that's why it would finally be good for the government to tell us what the real debt is in health care, short-term, long-term, how much is due to these pharmaceuticals for medicines, which are due due to payments, or let's just say once we pay it all off, let's go from scratch, or we don't deal with it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4941	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4942	Dear fellow Shuker, so I will return to the part that you spoke of, or you asked all of us if we have the strength for one consensus on structural reforms in our country. You were talking about the fair distribution of funds from the state budget to those who needed it, so the most needed and what is really our goal. I would very much like to finally know, hear from anyone, from the Government or here from someone from the Croatian Parliament who are structural reforms that everyone is talking about and just talking about structural reforms. And if this draft budget is the beginning and indication of these structural reforms, then I ask the question how is it that the beginning of structural reforms is always the most difficult to feel those who are just the most needed in our society. See the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, items in that budget, see items that have been downloaded when it comes to persons with disabilities to reduce to parts of the budget and this section relating to children's allowance. That famous measure of a thousand euros, so the children of a thousand euros, increased by 31 million, by 31 million, so it could possibly be for a few thousand children in the last 2 or 3 months of this year. But I'm also asking why, let's just say, it didn't go straight into structural reform at the level of local self-government. You know why? Because that's what we need a broad public debate about, who gets what, who loses what, and this is how it's best to fire on the pocket of those who can't really rebel, they don't want to rebel because they have little or nothing anyway. And there's our problem and it's actually a question of what we really want with this budget. And how exactly do you tell me through this budget where you see a sign of structural reforms when, among other things, in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, 50% of investment funds are reduced in science, technological development, technological development. No one's said anything about it here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4943	Here will be answered by the distinguished counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4944	Fellow Sobol, therefore structural reform is also a system of pay grade. Structural reform is also a fair distribution of the state budget, all structural reforms. Because in order to conduct a fair debate, you have to change a series of laws. Here's a colleague, Opačić, mentioned one of six, seven. So you can't tell someone you won't get it because someone decided. Someone has to propose a law and someone has to take responsibility for what he's proposing. But it must also take responsibility for those who really need that money to get it and even get more. But... Well, it's also a process. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But look, let's go now, but don't really take this as an objection, please. Remember the 2012 budget. So back then, some laws were passed, and then when it was seen that they went the wrong way, they changed in 2, 3 months. So I'm gonna say what I've been saying these past few weeks. I believe that in the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th month, this government must offer legislative proposals for structural reforms as some to be implemented now and some to be clearly seen in the 2017 budget. That's a fact because we can't say anything unless we change the law. Because look, when you look at the structure, you just have to look at the structure of our budget. And we don't have to fight politically. And you can't change a single position without changing a few bound laws. Not one. .../The intruder can't be heard. And look, I'm just telling you remember the sudden legislative changes, remember the legislative proposals, but I'm not saying we're not going to, I'm not going to, especially not with you guys, but so when I talked about structural reforms, I just asked the rhetorical question whether we're ready for structural reforms or not. Because structural reforms are sometimes painful, but we need to see a clear goal of getting them both on the income and on the expenditure side and what we generally get from it as a society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4945	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4946	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, I agree with you that in the course of the debate and the adoption of the state budget, it would be a good bar in this case when the budget is being discussed in the third month, it would be good to know the implementation of the budget for the past year. We are talking here today about comparing the positions between the 2016 plan and the 2015 plan, and we know that the implementation does not exactly agree with the 2015 plan. It would be interesting to see how much it will be, and we'll know in a month what the deficit of the state budget for 2015. It's about 15 billion, so somewhere around 4%, over 4% of the government budget deficit. And another thing you mentioned was, you were talking about the need to reform the state administration and then clear and local self-government. For me, the fact that in this year, Croatian citizens will pay on behalf of public administration seems to me a total of about 135 billion kuna, and that the central state will choose how we see 115 billion kuna in the budget, and the entire local self-government, including the city of Zagreb, 20 billion kuna, is enough to say how centralized the Croatian state is. Therefore, out of a total of 135 billion Croatian citizens, 86% take the state budget, and 14% and 20 billion, respectively, take the entire local and regional self-government including I said just before and the city of Zagreb. Therefore, when we talk about the need for public and local self-government reform, then it is very important to take care of this information that Croatia is already a very centralised state today and that the abolition of small municipalities and reduction I would also say the powers of these small units of local self-government, the reduction of their work cycle should be seen in the context of their financial opportunities, given this I am talking almost fragrant information about such a small amount that the units of local self-government are participating.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4947	Thank you. The Honorable counsel Shucker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4948	Comrade Bačić, when we talk about local self-government units, I think we'll all agree that some of the jobs the ministry is doing should be sent down to the county. And then we would stop saying that we have a surplus or not a surplus county, but we would talk about whether our Croatian citizens are satisfied with the work of that state administration or not. If we've lowered certain rights, actually obligations, then we have to lower certain rights. But we have one process that's extremely negative, and that's, say, county hospitals. They are by amending the law on, and financing units of local self-government and local self-government in 2002 dropped to the county. They've dropped one share of their income. Now, look, they've been given a price and everything and expenses, and they've been determined how much money they're going to give, even though it was known right away that it couldn't be covered. So we don't need that kind of decentralisation. But in order to talk about decentralisation, to talk about the functioning of local self-government units, we must first see if they meet the needs of their citizens. We're talking about some small municipalities. These small municipalities, thanks to the ability of their leaders, have made more infrastructure than some cities that have a hundred times the budget. Why? They're just out of state finances, whether they're public enterprises, water, forests, they pull everything the law gives them. So, thanks to their resourcefulness, not because someone is threatening them. So it depends a lot on it, too. It's not just a territorial structure if some legal definition is a prerequisite for something, it depends on how much anyone works. And that should be the basic parameter. However, when we talk about reforms, if now that everything that is happening in Croatia is not clear to us what we need to do, what we should do, then we will continue to engage in such an infertile fight, accusing each other in one way or another. And I agree with you completely that it is practically like this when almost one quarter of the financial year is practically impossible to discuss without data on the implementation of the budget for the previous year more than the fact that the government colleagues simply had no other option but to lean on the budget from last year and start doing something from there, because unfortunately they didn't team up. She worked the same administration that also served the 2015 budget across all ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4949	Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the replicas of your presentation, and then we go to the next club of representatives, which is the HRID and independent representative of Shandor Juhas, in the name of whom the distinguished representative Drago Prgomet will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4950	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Greetings to the ministers wherever they may be, fellow MPs are well served, and one message to Mr. Shucker. So there's a right path, there's a left path but there's a road center. So don't forget us next time. And the Croatian Parliament is indeed a place where it cannot and is not a place of bickering, but I answer to a fellow Milosevic who is not there but a place of serious and responsible debate. There was a short journey between not knowing how much real optimism that our current mandated when he was in Kitsbuhel and unfortunately the last messages of credit agencies that seriously tear down the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. What happened between those two events? Our prime minister has been elected prime minister. And if you remember correctly, many of them, even then, have warned about how well they are with all the good will to implement reforms, with all the economic knowledge, are the political system that can stop and help political relations dictate at what rate and speed they can carry out. Because good politics can make the state a good one and a bad one a failure. Why am I saying that? Because the conclusion of a credit agency that ruins the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia a few days ago is that it is the result of poor political relations, primarily among the ruling, the diversity of the political messages they send, the inconsistencies in the approach to reforms, the thin parliamentary majority, the inexperience. And the conclusion of a credit agency that we can or cannot agree with, and I fear they are right, that the current Croatian government can hardly implement reforms necessary for the recovery of the economy. My only regret is that our prime minister, who comes from the business world, who understands well how the world economy works, has unfortunately quickly blended into domestic political miles and chose the path of non-loathing rather than the path of reform. And it best shows a review of the budget items that very clearly shows who the victim is and who the winner is. The biggest loser of this budget, but above all, the biggest loser of this society is knowledge. The future of a country is based on knowledge and science. Countries that have come to realize that there is no future without knowledge and education are investing large funds in them. With us, these funds are being downloaded. With us education and knowledge is unfortunately treated as a cost. And while the countries, the smart countries of the 22nd century, we are not standing, we are not standing in this 21st, but we have unfortunately taken a step back in the 20th century. Forgetting that investing in education is investment in demographics, investing in the economy, investing in democracy. A country that does not invest in knowledge and education has no future. Is there a more painful invitation for young people to go to countries that respect and appreciate intelligence and knowledge? Well, we've isolated more, someone has already said, money for the vehicles of the Constitutional Court than we've singled out for research and development. And at the same time, we increased our isolation for political parties, for religious communities. Yesterday I spoke to one bishop and the man said nicely why you didn't ask us and we would be willing to separate some of our funds for children and education, and all of this according to the famous sentence of Pope Francis who says, "Put bread on the table and provide the children with a roof over their heads, give them health and education that is basic to human dignity." Unfortunately, this subsidy budget also sees as an important incentive for the development of the economy and growth and the facts are a little different. In addition to the fact that this is a very often unfair transfer of funds to individual lobbys, some stakeholders are unfortunately very often subsidized by certain industrial branches probably just for populist or some reason of good memory of good life while these industrial branches worked. In addition to such subsidies, the message is clear, politics does not want to give up the power that comes with the possibility of controlling public enterprises or avoiding the political cost of handling their business. And even in addition to the findings of the 2014 State Audit, which says no measures have been taken to achieve the dedicated use of State aid for the restructuring of the shipyard. Therefore, the state continues to make large budgets with a broad hand and not to monitor them at all or have a clear strategy. I'll remind you that in the last few years, exactly 12 years, we've given the subsidies 82 billion kuna. Thus, subsidies and support are converted into permanent income to companies and individuals without, I repeat, the state formulating neither a clear strategy nor a control over the spending of these funds. And what to say then is that it is a major obstacle to the development of the market economy. I am free to say that unfortunately Croatia is a country of partner capitalism. I look forward to the government's intention to bring order into the social segment. The concept of the social state must not be abandoned. He has to be more righteous and he has to apply equally to everything. Because it must be based on justice, on solidarity as the foundations of our society. I think we all need to be aware that we can't go on living the way we've lived so far. Or simply put, we can't live beyond our means. And that is why reforms like this are necessary. But I repeat such reforms in which the burden will not fall on the back of the poorest but be equally distributed. And therefore, if we talk about property censorship, then no one can be excluded from it, neither politicians nor Croatian defenders nor top athletes who receive support for life regardless of material status. Not a small part of the funding when we talk about this budget is planned to be obtained from privatisation. My question is what do you intend to privatize? I want a clear answer, as the citizens want. Are we going to repeat the mistakes of the past when, with the privatisation of certain companies, in particular the Croatian Telecom, we sold the infrastructure and now we have a situation to have the most expensive Internet in this area, we called this neighborhood or region, it is still the most expensive. So we want to know what's planned to sell. I repeat, citizens have the right because Croatia needs to be free and open, open society in which facts cannot be hidden from citizens. And a society that promotes pluralism and diversity becomes a closed society if there is no such incentive. We can't exclude anyone from making public policies, we can't exclude anyone from making decisions because it belongs to another community, because he's an individual. And that's why I find it unacceptable for small funds to be reduced by national minorities, for independent media, because the government cannot strike at weaker, unprotected and media. We expect the government to have power but the powerful must not become all-powerful. How to interpret the situation and return to the rating that was made on the basis of the other political situation in Croatia. How to interpret the decision situation in which only a few days after the adoption of the budget in the Government, the same majority accept amendments to that budget. As logical as these amendments may be, the question arises, and who is sitting in that government, who are the ministers who watched that budget and for which budget they raised their hand. Will any such decision that causes public anger, the dissatisfaction of certain stakeholders will result in a change of government decisions in the Croatian Parliament. Or how to interpret one of the ruling leaders sending a message, we'll be doing rebalancing in the 6th month. Then let's not be surprised when our next rating might be the same or worse. Such a policy is not easy to trust. If you think I'm exaggerating, I'll only give you a few examples where it's very different from what was said in the pre-election campaign and what this budget is offering. Remember the well-known sentence we will protect the dignity of Croatian defenders. And we are making a budget in a situation of reduced budget to the same ministry and without the elected minister. We're going to introduce a mandatory military deadline, and we're reducing the defence ministry's budget. This will be a land of knowledge, reducing the budget of the Ministry of Science. This will be a country without corruption, but we're cutting cash for DORH. We'll reform the judiciary, but we'll take away their money in the budget. We will reduce the benefits but we will increase the isolation of political parties. Demographic recovery is a priority, unfortunately, there is not a single seriously developed study in this budget, nor a elaborated measure on the trail. Maybe the government and its parliamentary majority are counting on certain things to be corrected in walking, possibly, but I'm afraid it might be the old one that hasn't been right since the beginning. The prime minister called for a consensus here, that's an excellent thing. I'm going to remind you of two historical not so long ago facts that two major states just because of consensus helped make them the most powerful countries in the world today. Clinton's reform of the social state that he did along with the Republicans and Schroeder's reforms he did along with the CDU. We are ready, indeed, ready to support both the laws and proposals that come from the ruling and as an opposition. Because a serious situation in society requires serious behavior. Above all, responsibility and knowledge. And that's why our debates aren't just supposed to be at the level of that usual crackdown at the level of opposition, power. But of course the move is up to you, to the rulers. When we see that there is mutual trust in your coalition, when we see your willingness to make difficult decisions, there is no problem or wants to be a problem in supporting those decisions that may not be popular but are long-term useful. We are ready, I repeat, to share with you the responsibility for the future of this country and prepare Croatia for a new home. But I repeat, before you do, you have to show us that you are capable of ruling, and I would not, in that time that was ahead of us, wish we were just watchers of the famous piece waiting for Godo, and I really wouldn't want it to be the only one, the only play in this theater of absurdity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4951	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4952	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Prgomet, through your discussion, you are on two occasions, and I agree absolutely mention that knowledge, science and demographics should be the basis of society. And I agree with you in this first part, knowledge, I won't, and science elaborate but I'll say demographics. And no one since this morning, here we are, how many four hours does not mention it and yet it is one part of the reform measures and that is almost 100 million kuna in the budget for each newborn child. Demography is so important that I wonder who in 10, 15 or 20 years, in this country there will be jobs, who will work? Who will come to those jobs if we don't really raise this pillar of society to one higher level? That's why I commend the Honorable Mr. Minister for introducing this measure. And I use the opportunity in some way to think for 2017 to encourage another measure, and it is a parent nurse as a status in this society through a working form of employment and everything that belongs to a parent's work status. It is a truly quality measure, with praise for this measure, which in the long term can contribute to this rapid decline of demographic image in Croatia, and in particular the last three, four years is amazing. Amazing indeed. The question is, where are we going to be? Is it possible that in 2050 we will be on almost 2 and a half million inhabitants? Well, I can't believe it. Who's going to work in this country? Who's gonna build it? Who will ultimately provide us with pensions when we arrive at those happy times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4953	Replica reply, distinguished representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4954	Thank you very much. I agree with you. Unfortunately, the depopulation of Croatia, public debt by me is probably the two biggest problems facing Croatia. But what you're talking about, unfortunately, is just one pre-election promise that's only fair that you've done it. But it's not a systematic measure, because we need to know why people give birth less, why people leave. So they don't leave Croatia because there's a harsh climate here, they don't leave because there's war, they don't leave because there's an epidemic of disease, they leave because they don't have a job, they leave because they don't see a perspective in this society. And how they'll see it when there's no public tender that's been called and no one's already received it. How will they stay if they do not see which direction the Croatian economy will develop. If it's going to be the way I said it was gonna be in a friendly discussion where our people get out of our budget, and the rest of them get along in the free market. Demographic policy cannot be a policy of any party or government. And that's what we don't want or can't understand. I would like to finally adopt a demographic policy that will oblige all governments regardless of the change in administration, but they will primarily involve active employment, employment of mothers, equal relations and single mothers. Building infrastructure. How many shopping malls in Croatia and how many kindergartens within these centers. As far as I know, there's not one. So, obviously, we only agree on what the problem is. But I would really like to approach this problem together as one of the biggest Croatian problems, otherwise from Croatia, a small country will turn into a small country for no life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4955	Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4956	Dear colleague, I know that all you've said is basically all true and that we've all repeated ourselves here so far countless times. You were mostly talking about social components, actually equality, i.e. constitutional obligations arising from the Constitution towards education, primary education, towards secondary education, on the transport of pupils and, of course, that we are trying to build a future budget and this one. For what? Because it's unimaginable, and you have more experience in this House and you've acted in this section so you know how it works. Because today Zagreb has secured every child everything, meaning we don't have equal constitutional category, while in Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski Kotar, I will always repeat it, you are a friend of my city coming to Alka every year, you often see how full the streets of those days are when the alkarian celebrations are. But now everything's empty down there. For what? Just because there were no criteria for allocating funds. Rich environments were able to enable their children, and those in rural areas could not. That's why this government has to work on criteria for both family property and regional property, i.e. the development of these environments. You say that and I agree with you that privatisation must not be allowed, i.e. Croatia is to be a hunting ground as it was in previous periods during Sanader and before. Croatia must not be a hunting ground. The property is implemented for new jobs, not to fail, it sinks. But it can't be a hunting ground, because you mentioned as well as TELECOM has now taken over our telecommunications. I agree with that. But the fact is that Croatia owes 300 billion, that this government only owed 100 billion before, should tell the truth and look into the eyes of the truth. And this is the budget that was made for 30 days. And we're all trying to make it right together with you. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] And I expect that these good intentions will be implemented in the future in support of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4957	Replica reply, distinguished representative Drago Prgomet. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4958	... Excuse me. [[Specially enabled.]] No, no, no. But you're in the ruling majority or you're an opposition within the ruling wing, which I still don't understand. So what it is, in which you are in collegiate, is that HDZ has repeatedly claimed that all the committees have worked for the past three years, prepared legal solutions and completed projects. I'd like to see them as soon as possible. I know they worked, I know there are great people out there, capable, smart, valuable, but I'm waiting to see the results of their work. Others related to depopulation policy. On the one hand, I may have the right to talk about two things when you were talking about the problem that you have, because I was born in a similar area where people were going. I think I have some social sensitivity because I must have been socially sensitive and shared everything with my seven brothers and sisters. And if anything bothers me, it's a social injustice. And if something bothers me that the child in Baranja has no bread and that the child in Zagreb has everything for free. I agree, my children really don't need it, I thank God I can afford it. That's the only reason I insist on a fair censorship. If it's an asset censorship, then it has to be worth everything to a professor, a politician, a defender and a athlete. And finally we realize one education is not a social category and it cannot be subject to laws and measures that fall under social state policy. Education, I repeat, investment in education is an investment in the economy above all but in democracy and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4959	Replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4960	Comrade Prgomett, you said you wanted to know, and of course we all want to know, what is this planning to privatize? But what is equally important is the question, and how will it be done? I guess not according to the model as Plive was privatised once a Croatian brand of widely known who employed thousands of scientists, who had his research centre and equipment worth hundreds of millions of euros. So it's also an important question of what, and more importantly how. Of course I believe that there are a lot of people here who are worried about reducing social rights. I said it and I'll repeat it and that it bothers you with social injustice, then you really need to be bothered by this kind of budget. The government is such a budget, by reducing all social almost most important social rights, I'm going to say rights, not abuse of rights. Here's the question we're talking about rights, not abuses because abuse is not the right thing to do and it's not an argument to end them. That only means capitulation of the state in non-rights. No, it is never the right, or the right never to turn away from the right. So only one satiate, healthy and educated man can be a satisfied man and must be the goal of every government. And you rightly warn if the funds for education are reduced, which is an investment in the future of Croatia in every way, if the judiciary budget is reduced, especially in the battle against corruption and the efficiency of the judiciary, the separations for both defence and defence are reduced as well. And that's who's doing it? It's a patriotic coalition. The same question arises as how is it that a budget without a defender has been drawn up, without for the first time in history without a defence minister? Is that even one of the reasons why you wouldn't ask for something for your portfolio? Because I believe that any secretary of defense was to keep it from shrinking, though, in order to maybe increase the amount intended for defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4961	Replica reply, distinguished representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4962	Thank you very much. There is little I can answer because this was not a replica in the right sense of the word but rather a comment of what I was saying. About what I think about the budget, I was more than clear. But I'm just going to answer the first part of your line, about privatisation. I absolutely agree with you and I support that this privatisation must be clear, open, and that we need to know why we're selling something. I really don't see the point of the state being a majority or part owner of over 1,000 companies, 1000 companies companies. But I repeat, there are certain things that are not sold, which the state does not sell if it wants to preserve its own, above all, energy independence, its own sovereignty. And these are public goods and it's infrastructure. And that's what I was talking about in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4963	Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4964	Well, you have well noticed that there are certain problems in the budget for Croatian defenders, but you may be misreading them as HRT does. They announced in the budget that 550 million kuna is in the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension Insurance, but this is only about the allocation of funds that have been paid after the adoption of the Law on the division of pensions to those who have been paid under special conditions and that there is no reduction. As far as the Ministry of Defence itself is concerned, there are 32 million kunas of more funds, 32.9 million kunas of more funds in that position than in the past budget. So the implementation of the past budget was an indicator of the adoption and the possibility in this budget. If more revenue had been made in the past, that was better worked, that was greater GDP growth, that higher budget values were believed to be more and for defenders who needed it, the older they needed it, the more they needed it, the more they needed care, the more they needed care, the more they needed help they needed it, the more they needed it. There's still a lot of unsettled residents, and 1,800 of them are waiting for a housing solution. There are still many who are unemployed, 36,000 of them need help in employment and should be placed in the function of society, in the function of work in order to serve for themselves and for their families but also for the country of Croatia. Yes, the budget is consistent with the possibilities and we can only say that we believe that this year there will be indicators that will fill out what the ministry lacks in the next budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4965	Replica reply, distinguished representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4966	Thank you very much. You know that famous operation worked, the patient's not so good. So this budget is technically excellent. I have not heard from any economists yet that this budget has been poorly done in technical terms, but the budget is a political act that sends clear messages and ultimately we expect the country, where the economy will develop, how much it will stand out for social, etc. So what I'm saying today, I'm saying by reading what's in this, I'm repeating a technically excellent budget. You claim the media transmitted false information. I've been putting out here what I read. Why do I tell you this? Because during the debate today until noon I heard several times, Mr. Lovrinovic repeated it, we agreed that it would not be so. Or I heard on the board that it wouldn't be like that. So I don't know what was agreed on boards, which was agreed at coalition meetings, I only know what was in the budget and the budget says very clearly that the defence ministry's budget was reduced. I am sorry that this is the case, as I am sorry that the Ministry of Defence is neglecting a large number of defenders who have not resolved their status either as Croatian military disabled or through retirement and have them. Unfortunately, there are many who really do, unfortunately I repeat in social cases and in the social category. And here I insist that the Ministry of Defense more properly deploys its resources to those people who may not be as loud and aggressive as these others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4967	Replica esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4968	Mr. Prgomett, in your inspirational presentation, you pointed out the difference between what was promised, which was pre-election rhetoric and what was realized. There's one important thing you seem to have forgotten to tell me, and that's that it was promised that by running the bar on HRT would be chosen by the two-thirds majority. However, what do we have in practice? In practice, we have to eliminate the democratisation of the media, we have an attack on electronic media. Here's our Vice President of the Parliament as an interested citizen walking with protesters, I guess, to see what it looks like right in practice. Then we have an announcement of the attack on HINA, we have the abolition of non-profit media, or no funds for non-profit media, and our culture becomes... So actually, the state budget, this one can also be understood as some kind of ethical cleaning, not to say ethnically but to say ethical cleaning, and that means actually introducing some new rules, media control, taking over public space and actually eliminating all freedoms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one of the dangers he's been reading in this budget. And whether he's technically perfect is less important. And you're an operator, and you can technically perform the surgery perfectly, but the patient, you said it yourself, and that's not to live and die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4969	The following came to the debate on behalf of the SDSS and Reformer's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Radimir Cacic, reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4970	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. There's been a few pretty affected statements here so far. One was very good of Mr. Boric, I think. This budget is bad because it was the same as the SDP, HNS, HSU and IDS budget last year. Of course it's not until the end, but it's pretty much hitting things. So A) the budget is technically significantly better than we've ever had, it's an honor, I think it gives a few reflectors and makes the story much more transparent than politics often in this country wanted to be. That's important. Could he have been any better? No, no. It's part of the coalition through Mr. Lovrinović's exposure, here and admitted, it was done quickly in a short time, more or less... There's been a copy of what's been prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since it didn't end up knowing what, where and how, then some mistakes and miss, okay. But if the mistakes of the ID are made, it's much better than not to admit them, and in that sense it seems to me that some good things have happened. Could you have expected something important different, too? That's what Shuker was talking about. To change things, you have to make assumptions. If you have no idea you can't do anything. Why aren't they made? That's another story now. They're not made, no. Real. I only hope that there is enough knowledge and preparation to make certain things happen quickly because the first quarter has passed and by summer we should already know what will be done and that then of those promises that were which, of course, we cannot come to a thousand euros per child which is very nice and everyone will welcome it but of course they are neither solutions nor are reforms nor are any systematic measures. It's a promise that no harm can come from but from God and no good. I'm talking long-term, I'm talking strategically, I'm serious about demographic politics. Now, let's say some basic things here. And that's said in the debate, but I'd just like to round it up a little bit. Several people, and particularly the president of the HDZ club, stressed that the shifts that took place at the end of the mandate last year were primarily the incentive of one overall shift in environment and some other factors. And Shuker's right. It's a simple fact. A lot less affected by the government, and the same is now the situation of this government. In fact, joining the EU. Okay. It's ten years of effort, but now we're where we are, the fund space is open. 10.7 billion in that wallet on the fourteenth, 20th, we took a little of that. Far, far too little compared to what we needed and could do, but yet in a rough system is set up and it's good and some projects are prepared and it's good. Right now, we have this shift ahead of us, and we see it in the budget, and that's the important move. Secondly, the open space is economically and legally for our exports and for the investment outside here is quite different when you are in the EU or when you are not. It's a simple fact. The prices of energy for a country which is an importer, and even at one point five years ago we were the largest importer in absolute electricity numbers in the world, would not believe what is absolutely amazing. But these energy prices for a large importer of energy such as Croatia directly affect around 0.8% of GDP growth without anyone doing anything, no. That the government doesn't come out of its office, no, that it doesn't exist. It's not so small, it takes effort to make it happen. The price of capital. Well, I'm pretty old, but she hasn't been down since I remember. We're entering a negative zone. So the price of capital for a highly-indebted country, of course, is a terrible contribution to the chances of us starting to move in the right direction. It is of course clear to everyone and should not be specifically explained, regardless of what is ours... Tall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the price of capital is roughly built to measure what the EURIBOR is, so that's zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero. But if we're at zero here, not at 2, 2 and a half in the beginning of God, that's not a small difference. So right now, it's a good climate for us and it's going to take a while. In a country where it is not basically good, but the fact that GDP is at the level of 18% affected by tourism, we are monoculture. When all this happened politically in the Mediterranean, neither guilt nor debt to us was opened. We're not particularly responsible, but it's just like that, that niche is there, that chance is there and it's affected both the rise and this year. It's a sad fact of these tragedies, but that's a chance. The fact is that we only have 13% in hotel facilities, so we have a huge space that encourages foreign investment opens up space for both GDP growth and budget stabilisation, debt etc. The country, which is the fifth most valuable state asset to EUROSTAT in Europe, and among the last of the gross social product and the fact of the impact of the state's contribution to GDP growth, we are somewhere below 1% of the contributions has a huge chance of using that property. So all of what we missed, all of what we didn't do, all of what we did wrong is essentially the chances of looking at things strategically. Oh, no? So I've listed only a few, and then I'm not talking about reforms, etc. It's all that space standing in front of us. Now, the prime minister said, that sounded great, a vision, a direction, a pace. His answers were none of that. Things aren't so black white. I suppose and I'm sure the Prime Minister has a vision, but we can't see it in this budget. We'll see about that in the next one. The pace is gone, the direction is indicated, we see that we are going in one direction but in a way that is slow and square. Now, what we really have in front of us. We have a task ahead of us to cut costs and increase growth. We can reduce the cost of course through reducing the cost of upgrades. Here's the pay grade, the loss of a living right to a job if you don't satisfy it, etc. etc. And of course the activation of this property such as the impact of private funds, pension funds and IPO on HAC ONC in privatisation and a number of others. This is to reduce the cost of the state, and also in economic growth we have key things to impose, which is the use of EU funds and that is, of course, the formation of a guarantee scheme that Vujčić was talking about here, justified. A lot of other things he hasn't talked about with too many arguments, but it's true that the flow of monetary policy without a guarantee fund can't be realized. On the other hand, the state has to do its part of the job, the government, and give the possibility that our weak in the balance sheet of the economy will take the money that will eventually come on any basis. All these are the tasks that stand before us and we really can do these tasks, if we don't do almost nothing, we'll grow about 2%. And that's the budget, conservative. But I'm always more conservative than euphoric. However, if we do something more serious, there is plenty of room. Yeah, they cut our ratings that's right, but it's not some particular fault of this government like it wouldn't have been a credit if it had grown. It's just the moment we're in, the agency estimates that the government is unstable, that there's still nothing to know, and then they're punishing it. Let's just be objective about it. I know it can be a disappointment, but it's just like that. That what Mr Milanovic was saying was incorrect, of course, he probably knows. Rating's important. Rating is terribly important. Why? Because if you're spret and he doesn't know it's 3.75, that's the addition to the risk of the country and if you have SPRET 4 and someone else has SPRET 1 so it's not so complicated to calculate that he can have 4 times the debt and have the same debt cost. Is that so complicated? It's always about the cost you pay. There's no point in coming back, the point is, what's the cost? But here's the minister, so he'll make me right. And so can colleagues who aren't ministers. But it's an alphabet and we have to figure it out. Of course the ratings are important. And there's a huge reserve that the relative impact of the debt is shrinking. 10.8 billion kuna is a blow to our budget. It's unsustainable. We have to change all these measures that I've been talking about here. And at the end of the two, three words about things that directly hit us and which as far as we're concerned, the Reformist will be particularly important. As far as the SDSS is concerned, I would especially point out that the amount of funding for the 60 million State Department for renovation and housing is reduced, which is of course unacceptable because it is a very sensitive subject and there is really no time or place to cut the budget, it will try to change by amendment. And of course, the development of these environments is largely dependent on the domicile component for EU funds. It also cannot and does not deserve to be reduced, and it will also be tried by amendment. As far as we reformers are concerned, especially given the fact that I'm a third-unit representative, I've already said and talked about transportation. Transportation is a completely clear category. It's not a social category. Anyone who has a mustache doesn't know the point. Does anyone today talk about elementary school and whether anyone is saying that they should make a social censorship for children from primary school who have a ride? Well, everybody, nobody thinks about it anymore. The primary school has a transport because that's an assumption that it would be mandatory. In order for one schooling to be mandatory, it must be free of charge. It can't be paid otherwise it's not mandatory. So, in your heads, did it ever occur to anyone that they're going to charge someone because they have a higher salary or anything because they go to primary school transport? No, I don't. Well, now the time has matured for it to be for high school. It's an investment in the future, it's an investment in education and I introduced it in 2005 in Varazdin. However, I agree that if we are not yet mature to introduce a mandatory middle we are going with this, we should include European funds. Let's not go below what we've achieved. Let's try to do more. In that sense, we are going with the amendment and it will be one of our conditions whether to support Oreskovic further. And most importantly, as far as we're concerned in the north, that 20 million was taken to co-finance a public-private partnership. That's not 20 million, that's 15 million kunas to Varazdin County and 5 to Koprivnica. It's not 15 or 20, it's times 20 years, it's 300 million. It's not 15 million, the state is 15, but it's 40 to 50% of all the development funds the Varazdin County has. 32 schools are made. Kune didn't give up the state, Kuna. Now you're doing, like, a Split one, let's do it. And with one area of 145 million investments. I agree, but I'm really into it, but here goes everything from the budget, and here even the part that the state should take over 55%, and 45% still carries the county and it's taken. Guys, mind in the head. I understand, I talked to the minister, he's just not enough in that problem. But let's see how to fix it. The only thing that matters is that if a leak is made somewhere, we need to be aware and try to correct it. Here, these are our terms for the budget. As for the infrastructure in the interview with the minister of the fast track Zagreb-Lepoglava-Varaždin-Cakovec is already in analysis and I expect that we will have valorisation this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4971	Replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Cacic, you spoke of a reduction in resources for the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, which was reduced by 60 million kuna compared to the planned funds for 2016, which means slightly more than 20%. In view of the remaining cases of renewal and submitted renewal and housing requirements with the remaining 170 million and something, 172 million kuna as far as it remains will not be possible to realise. And we, Mr. Minister, expect these things that last over 20 years and where people have been waiting for years to solve their issue of restoration or the issue of housing to be considered by this government. The issue of the development of assisted areas, the areas to which the exiled Croats have returned and refugees from Serbs with 40 million kunas have been returning, has been reduced by 8 million and 700. These areas are areas where people need to be rewarded because they live there, not by reducing their assumptions about how these areas might develop. Otherwise, we'll have a situation that in a few years we won't have anyone to develop these areas for. The same applies to the item co-financing projects in these areas where the reduction is even more drastic, with 11 million kunas for European projects falling by 6 million and something like 4 million kunas. How these municipalities, with which funds these municipalities will be able to participate in co-financing of projects. At least it's 30% of the funding. Why are we punishing them? For what? Should we let them go to waste? If that's politics, then say it, don't even give that 4 million because it won't do any good either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4973	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4974	In fact, I wanted to support your debate one more time, Mr. Cacic, I almost agree with you on everything. When we talk about the government's policy, which one of the more important potentials to increase GDP and reduce debt sees in unactivated state property. I wanted to hear your comment on that fact. I don't think the solution to the sale of state property is in this way to collect government debt. I think the solution to the long-term concessional model is such property with building rights. However, our experiences so far, very modest but have shown that in such cases very often such models have gone in the wrong direction and that in fact the units of local self-government have also taken on great obligations in this regard, we have also talked about our world championship halls, we have talked about the number of projects. We now have construction downstairs in Dubrovnik port terminal, so we have an airport in Zagreb where everything seems to be quite a lot of new affairs on the pier. So in this sense I wanted to hear your comment on how to make this system transparent that really of this activation of state property that really has a lot, especially on our coast our country benefits in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4975	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4976	... First of all, every abuse and crime is not the reason Ingrid used to say 10 minutes ago to reject models. [[Specially enabled.]] That's why there's the police and the Jump. Let's learn that. In an unsettled society. In societies where the judiciary doesn't work and ours doesn't work, of course what you're saying is that you have corruption, hopefully less and less, but that's the case. So you also have it where there was no concessioning and EPP like building highways. When I ran it the average price was 5 million euros per km, after being run by some other average price was 10 million, the same road, everything was the same, the same performers, the same projectors, just twice the price. So you can have crime in these models and in these models and there is crime. Public private partnership is a model that, in different forms, is a model that the world accepts, which is very important to include private capital and upgrade to what the state has and can invest and does not have to give money and it opens up the space of course developmental. I'm personally convinced, as far as we're concerned, we've done it phenomenally. We are at interest rates 1. 1.5% at 25 to 30 years, with prices that are amazingly made by 32 buildings, 94% of children in Varazdin County go to one-way classes, with sports halls, with everything. All alone. So, yeah, someone has to do it honestly and professionally, that's two little details. A sale of property and speech in general, JANAF by no means, PLINACRO by any chance, transfer to the power lines in HEP by any chance. You know exactly what things are getting into the sovereignty of the country. I don't want to add any more water, etc... Here, so I'm sure we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4977	Replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4978	You told your colleague about the worrying fact that the funds in this education budget are being reduced. So cry out to this government people in their heads. But I think you're asking a lot because the government is just cutting, not only in education but also in the weakest shows what it really knows and what it wants and what it can do. And in relation to the income he believes he will be, he will collect more than 3 billion kuna in the name of the tax, and where are the reforms to make it happen? It also plans to withdraw 94.6% of funds, hence helping from EU funds compared to the previous government. So this knows, this will, we've seen it before, and it's going to happen right away. And what God gives, if there is. Maybe the only hope is that here's our prime minister's passive fisherman, so he catches a goldfish that will meet these expectations on the revenue side.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4979	I would like to thank you for your reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4980	Thank you very much. I'd be there, you know, often in our politics, and even in our Parliament, everyone likes to call themselves a constructive opposition. And then finally we get that one opposition and one position, another opposition. I'm not lucky in that position. I can afford to say, because I went to the polls as a center. The basic message was I'll tell you what's wrong and I'll tell you what's wrong. I understand Ingrid, she's not as good as I understand her colleagues, they're good. But Boric said rightly, you're not doing well with the budget because it's the same as yours. I mean, let's be realistic, not people. Let's be realistic! Well, we all know that in this room, no. Well, it's basically prescribed with the shades that were given in that time, no. The key thing was indeed well said by Mrs. Marinovic, she said very well that 94.6 expected increase, what Ingrid said, on the funds is not enough compared to what we could and wanted but it is very ambitious compared to what we did in the last government. It's not done enough. I expect the formation of a pyramid, assumptions already exist but has never been realised, no one has ever taken full responsibility for EU funds. Now, Minister Tolusic must offer us a pyramid of responsibility, deadlines, amounts and responsible people headed by him. I expect to see that. I'm not saying it should be in 15 days, but in the next month yes, so I'm going to have a lot more trust in this increase of almost 100% than what was realized this year, because then I know who I can call responsible. We don't know yet. So, Mrs. Martinovic had, Marinović had And it's not real. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] We'll see in a year, even before.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4981	Next in the debate on behalf of the IDS club, distinguished representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4982	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues. I want to start by saying that we are not satisfied with the proposal of the State budget for 2016. Unfortunately, we have a document that continues the established practice of streaming, I would say, from hollow to empty, and that brings nothing new. No matter what election announcements I think there are no visions in this budget, no determination, no courage to make decisions that will push things forward. We continue to cut certain items five percent, ten percent, and we essentially don't solve anything. Although the word reform for the ruling coalition's colleagues until recently was a mantra, unfortunately I have to conclude a harsh but irrefutable fact. This budget is all just not reform. He is sustainable, not encouraging, and certainly not just. Well, let's get it straight. It is clear from the draft budget that there is no indication that the promised reforms will begin from so much announced decentralisation to public administration reform, indeed. The justification that for the greater reform moves in this budget was not the time I simply couldn't accept it. I personally in this House nearly two months ago also appealed to Prime Minister Oreshkovic when voting for confidence in the new government not to be prisoners of history and primitiveism, and to use the time to vote the budget to discuss the reform measures and key problems of our society, unemployment, economy and the increase of the standard of living for our citizens. Unfortunately, there have just been pointless debates about the 1990s or perhaps even worse about the 40s, and ideological issues have been used for who knows which times to distract himself from the real problems. As I was reading the draft budget, I was hoping to come across at least some indication of so many announced decentralisations and public administration reforms, at least a little something that a man could catch himself looking for any change. Unfortunately, "the hills were shaking, the mouse was born," from great announcements, nothing at all. It is clear from this budget that everything will remain the same as the last 25 years. Troms, backward and unjust, the centralized structure of the state simply won't change. This year, too, plans to keep the current allocation of budgets according to which the central state spends about 90% of the budget, 4 to 5% of the waste on the city of Zagreb, and the rest of the less than 5% is allocated to all other cities, municipalities and county. I'm going to repeat again what IDS keeps up with and keep warning. The centralised state simply cannot be maintained because Croatia must be decentralised by example of developed European countries in Germany, Denmark. I don't think there's any alternative here. Administrative, functional and fiscal decentralisation is the only sustainable model of economic development, and this can be linked to the words of the prime minister who appealed this morning, we can't do all of this alone, take over part of the responsibility. And that's exactly the key word. Part of the responsibility I see at regional and local level which I am sure can contribute to precisely economic growth and that is what we are saying. However, in addition to the words themselves, concrete actions are needed, concrete measures need to be made manifest in the budget itself. The second thing I want to do today, particularly highlighted as a representative, is that this budget is mildly spoken unfairly to Istria and its citizens. Istra participates in filling the state budget in significant percentages, however, when these funds need to be returned to citizens in order to build capital facilities from the budget, only crumbs are allocated. If we fill the state budget in percentages, then I can say that the citizens are just coming back. With this draft budget, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to invest in Istria without counting subsidies for BINA ISTRA just over 60 million kuna. Which is minimal compared to those 800 million kunas that Istria is more participating in the central register than it is returning, and with this budget proposal, I'm afraid that 800 million is approaching the amount of billions. This cuts down the citizens of Istria for basic development projects that are of great importance to our region. What is particularly eyebite is a reduction in the means of education. Investment in science and education is a matter of the country's strategic commitment and a very clear indicator of the far-sightedness of the people who lead it. This budget shows that we are a very shortsighted country. Unlike national policy, we really want Istria to be a region of knowledge and, to that end, we invest considerable resources from local budgets in the area of education. I believe that tomorrow's progress by Istria is just young, so despite the crisis in the last 5 years in Istria, we have built new 4 schools, reconstructed 8 schools, built 6 new kindergartens and increased the number of scholarships by 30%, with our own funds without the participation of the state budget. I believe that the state should be our partner in this business, but the draft budget shows that there are no new investments in schools and infrastructure facilities in the field of Istrian County, and significantly less funds are allocated for the regular work of Jurja Dobrila University in Pula as well as for accommodation, feeding of pulse students. What bothers me especially is that everyone swears on European projects as a basis for the implementation of investment projects, and then the EU project of the University of Pula is practically abolished. Out of the 605,000 kuna from last year's budget, only 15 thousand kuna are foreseen this year and all expenditure on employees and services has been abolished. So Minister Maric also said in the introduction that it holds that 4.7% of income increases depend significantly on European funds and the use of them. If we look at just one small example where with 605,000 kunas of our component it is reduced to 15 thousand kunas then we can see very clearly that this European project that could have been 10 million kunas total will fall to 100 thousand kunas. Because this particular reduction refers to our part, our part of our own component that we need to secure in order to ensure the European project itself. Also what I believe this government can do and at the same time save in the budget is to cancel the project of the Istrian Ipsilon. It is a project that will enable an investment of 170m euros and employ more than 1000 people. This directly affects GDP growth itself. With 100-year budget cuts, the implementation of this investment would reduce and only reduce the burden on the state budget. I note that for Pazin-tunnel Učka, 28 km long, all technical conditions are met and the funds are secured. What is crucial for the finalisation of the project is precisely the issues of state support for a project that has so far unwisely left out. I do not particularly need to stress what the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon means for the safety of transport, but also what it means for strengthening the Istrian tourism that carries at least a third of the total income in Croatia. I don't have to remind myself that it's about an amount of nearly 20 billion kuna revenue. Also, what we stand for in Istria is the even and politic development of our region because we are aware that small environments in the interior of Istria do not have all the resources like those on the coast. We've worked a lot to raise living standards for citizens living in the interior of Istria. We combined green and blue Istria, successfully branded agricultural products and worked to promote rural tourism in Istria. The most important achievement is the fact that, according to the 2011 census, for the first time in some parts of the interior of Istria, the positive growth of the population has been recorded, which has stopped the eviction of people. Even the other way around, people want to go inland and live in that area. We are bitter that in Istrian municipalities in areas of special state interest, Oprlje, Grožnjan and Lanista, since this year, radically reduced resources from the state budget. We're not asking to be given anything, but I'm going to remind Istria once more of a full state budget with a surplus of more than 800 million kuna. We're only asking for the right to our own. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that this budget is not going to change anything. And that's the saddest thing. For decades we've been trying to change and solve problems with the same inefficient logic that doesn't lead us anywhere. It is necessary to take a step and completely change the paradigm that will modernise Croatia and give it an economic boost. It takes inventiveness, courage and determination. And we simply don't see it in this budget. Finally, I would ask our Prime Minister Oreshkovic and Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Maric, whom I greatly appreciate given that you both come from the corporate world, would you, as managers of a company in serious troubles in trying to save your company from bankruptcy, try to change things where they work or reduce the funds to your best and most effective departments? So in this budget, that's exactly what it does. Those who need to pull the country forward there are shrinking, and where things don't really work out there it's left behind. For all the above reasons, although I am using the opportunity to send my congratulations to the Minister of Budget in a technical sense, but when we talk about the content itself, our club feels that this budget does not bring any development step and that it does not stop the development of Istria alone but also all other regions of our region. That is why we cannot support this budget in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4983	Replica, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4984	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, here we are not seeing each other like this, we're going to lean a little bit, but of course we're politicians both, we're not in the same political party, of course it's inevitably leading to the fact that sometimes we disagree on different topics, that we have different views on certain problems and how to solve them. But that's normal. In one democracy, that's even desirable. However, I think you and I have always agreed on some fundamental values. And I'm very glad that you were talking about the University of Pula because we're talking about two values both for me and for you, which is the value of education, knowledge and value of our Istria. And right at the University of Pula, I think both of these two values by the proposings were questioned by the government of the Republic of Croatia. The budget for the University of Pula on its 10th anniversary when that university finally grew into a respectable university, little but significant, which is being developed, which is being built, is reduced by 10%. But just what you pointed out, this is a tragedy. We swear to withdraw funds from European funds. Our university is great at this, but it can't withdraw funds unless you provide funds for a national component that, beware of what amount, ministers are careful how much you planned for 15 thousand kunas. How's it going? Not at all. I therefore invite you, we from the SDP Club, our fellow MPs have prepared an amendment, and I believe you will go that way. We will surely support the amendment of you from IDS, I believe that you too will be ours, and I hope that there will be reason in the Government to use the funds available on other items to ensure the development of our university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4985	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4986	Yes, our university is young, it marks only ten years of existence, but as a region that wants to develop knowledge, it is normal to advocate its development and therefore we have decided within our club to submit the amendment to which I am going to try to correct this mistreatment and this mistake. For the reasons also said budget promoters that the issue of withdrawing funds from European funds is crucial for increasing revenues. I believe that this is exactly how we can at least contribute partially to achieving this goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4987	Replica's distinguished representative Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a chance to replicate both my colleagues. I experience science as a scientist and therefore as that segment of human action that is the driver of the development of a society. And yet I will say one fact that perhaps colleagues will not like and it concerns that Croatia has more universities per capita than Spain, Great Britain, Hungary and a number of other countries. Well, then we share that poor cake we have in very thin slices, and in the end, no one can function normally, we're all shortened, we all feel hopeless in such a situation. My question is whether it would be better to determine which universities we will finance in quality and then give them fair funding to get you science in Croatia. But when I was reporting for replication, science and education, of course, when I was reporting for replica, I didn't have any idea of replicating this, so now I'm going to go ahead and say it. So European funds are not the basis for creating scientific policy or any country. Each country must make its own scientific policy through its own means. Here's an illustrative example. These days, the Foundation will receive some 17 million kunas to explore climate change. It's a European project. If you add that money to these funds that the foundation will get for funding, it would be a great situation. However, I ask you how many scientists in Croatia can be involved in such a project that will explore climate change. It's a very interesting project, very important that we participate in this, but at this point it's not our national priority. It is the EU's priority. Therefore, we need to strengthen our own research base, our own research potential and strengthen competitiveness so that we can apply to European funds and we can only do so by our own means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4989	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4990	So should we reduce the number of universities? I believe that we are a small country and that we should define ourselves to excellence, that we should seek as much as possible of highly educated citizens as possible because I think that on average we can hardly compete on the world market. But when we also talk about the number of universities and when you touch the issues of a young Pulski University, then I'll tell you one more time, we absolutely need the university, it's the dream of many of our intellectuals who's been loyal 10 years ago. And I'm going to say that, we can look at how many counties make surpluses and charge more into the state budget than is spent in their area. Therefore, while Istria does this annually over 800 million kuna and by proposing this budget we can say that we come to an amount of nearly a billion kuna then I will say we have the right to our university, we can support it ourselves, we just want the money achieved in Istria in Istria and back.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4991	The following came to light for the debate on behalf of the HSLS club, Buz, the independent representative of Gordana Rusak, the esteemed representative Darinko Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4992	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. It means on behalf of the HSLS and BUZ Club pursuant to Article 248. I request a 20-minute recess from the Rules of Procedure to allow the President of the Croatian Government to attend the debate of parliamentary representatives on the 2016 budget. With the full respect of the Minister of Finance who is here, who has been here all along like I have for the last four hours, I ask that the Prime Minister, and possibly other ministers, attend this debate because this is not a debate for us. This is a debate for the promoter, and I ask for an article from the Rules of Procedure from 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4993	Thank you. Just a little peace on the left side of the assembly, please. I'm fixing a break on behalf of the HSLS Club. It's a ten-minute break. 20? I'm setting a break of 20 minutes at the request of the HSLS Club. It's 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4994	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.19 HOURS]] Here you go, pal Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4995	Here's another thank you to the Minister of Finance for being patient here since 9.30. I'm sorry there aren't any other ministers, and I'm particularly sorry there's no proposal. Now that the debate is on me, and the Prime Minister is gone, I'm giving up the debate. As far as I can tell, he's gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4996	Thank you very much. In order to clarify only, as always there are official promoters, except the prime ministers are official Zdravko Marić Minister of Finance, all Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ms Ivana Jakir-Baja, Assistant Minister of Finance and Chief State Treasury and Mr Zvonko Šakić Assistant Minister of Finance. Therefore, all of them, as with other laws, are authorised promoters. So it's not unusual, it's all common. Okay. The rest of the time will be used by the esteemed representative of Milivo Spik. ... Come on, let's calm down and let my colleague Spic say what he thinks about the state budget. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go, fellow Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4997	Thank you very much, esteemed president, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, certainly more people are watching and listening to us than it is here in the assembly right now, but it's not really my fault personally. I'm just sorry we don't have a middle here, they're always here. ... Okay, I'll cut it short, of course, we won't take this second. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What we were saying at the beginning, so this is, yesterday I said the same thing at our club, this is a good-looking budget, a little summation of the last SDP. I suppose even you will support this with some small cosmetic changes. Why did I even answer for a debate here today? Only for a few reasons, and it is a few facts that interest the electoral body or my membership. So, if we know that 100 and some billion are already in advance, so based on the legal rules that are, and on those 120 billion, then it's quite clear that there will be no major interventions within the budget without amending the legal rules. What's the main reason why this budget is like this, for two reasons. First, the government is still not complete, too little time and they did what they did. So, this is a practical budget for the implementation of the SDP of the government, and this is the budget of continuity not reform, reform will probably be good work when it is the first rebalancing, and the next will certainly be in the full sense of that word. What is important for our citizens, so for those who are directly connected to the budget, which is the fact that social rights and pensions will not be touched. That's what our citizens are most interested in. And if someone in some ministry is going to get more or less for some of their stuff, it's at this point for our citizens irrelevant. What one part of the people are certainly interested in and that's the question of this Royal Insurance, especially us who represent the retirement population here. Then for the sake of public interest and people, there are 3800 who are directly interested, I can say that we understand the promoter that at this point he did not go to a solution to this problem because there is a legal basis for some things to be settled here. So these people can be calm because within the Patriot coalition and the Most, we'll definitely find them at the annual level of the 16 million so that soon there will be a continuation of payment to those people who have received their share of pension through Royal Insurance. What nobody said about the budget here at the moment, and it's not the time to say because this is the continuity budget until we get to the changes in the legal rules, and that's the stories that are certainly going to open, so I'm going to announce them in advance. One of these is the way of using funds from the second pension pillar in the function of reducing public debt, including in the function of more quality and transforming one of the ideas that will be on the table and which will certainly be the opposition to talk about it, and that is the idea that the second pension column even goes under the state wing and that it will even be one investment fund in some way. In this way, only in this year would they reduce public debt by 5 billion kuna or increase budget revenues. So we also have an example of our CNB. So, if the CNB is going to be in a state function in a better way than it is so far, for example, why don't the CNB buy bonds of 0.25 interest and not that the state sells them to mandatory pension funds with interest rates of 4%, 5% or 6%, as far as I don't know exactly. So, I'm one of those who's certainly waiting when we're going to go through these reform procedures, and I say one of the conditions for that is to change the legal basis because without growth, development and employment, and hence GDP growth, all of which we talk about and some prosperity will be nothing. In the meantime, all these populist ideas about cutting a little finger at us, and then it'll be better for someone than that, there's nothing. That's what Buzz is going to stand up to. In the context of these stories of behaviour within social rights, it was mentioned here and income or property censorship. Yeah, he'll work on it. One of the reasons why this will be taken into account is the fact that in front of the soup kitchen people with vehicles are not rarely stopped for 20, 30,000 euros and are fed from the kitchen. One way to stop it is to be a problem for all of us and not just for one or the other center. And I think by the end of this year it's gonna end and stuff like that. So it's easy for all of us here to deal with this spending site. And what I would be more interested in is this revenue side from both our government and our ministers, from all those who are directly involved and us who will be proactive here is to help them find the best possible solution. Of course, I expect him to do his job because they said we give them hell, here today he was your party president, probably has more important things to do, I don't blame him for not being here and not having to be. But I believe that in some crucial things, the time is slowly coming when both sides of this assembly will have to agree on some things, have to negotiate, and we will not use some things to collect political points, but something that will be in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic. Until then, and until this Monday, it remains to see what happens, but if God gives us health, we might as well support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4998	Thank you. We have three replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u4999	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad the Honorable Representative of Spica said that this is a continuity budget, so you admit that everything we've done so far has yielded results and that you're moving on. I don't know if Minister Maric will be happy because you announced at least two rebalancings by the end of this year after what you discussed. As for Royal Insurance, it is necessary to provide 43m euros by 2050 to resuscitate the entire, entire Royal Insurance. But what's most worrying, what concerns man is your discussion, you're part of the position where you advocate nationalisation, when you advocate the nationalisation of the second pension pillar and that's what I think and I think at this point you should clearly tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia whether you are for the pension reform to be implemented in this way when it has been implemented so far, which gives results, the pension system is stable, long-term sustainable. Or do you want to take our property, mine, yours, which is already in II. It nationalises and transfers to the I. Pension Pillar and destroys the future of young people who are now entering the labour market because their pension will not be adequate. And yes, because of these things we're listening to, so from members of the Patriot coalition, one of the reasons why the rating agency crashed your rating is because you're obviously sending false signals to people who watch what's going on here and that it's not an economic recovery and stability problem, it's political instability in the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5000	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5001	So this is the order from the end. No one here thinks of any nationalization, no one takes anything away from anyone, it's just about putting something under the hat of the state administration, and that the state manages on behalf of the same people, not funds that don't match anyone, not funds that don't respond and do whatever they want with those funds. So no one is going to nationalize or kidnap anyone or anything else, it's just a matter of rational use of these funds. And why wouldn't the state use it as an investment part. Second of all, Royal is not a problem with HSU or SDP or HDZ, Royal Insurance is the problem with all of us. And those 3800 citizens who went in such a way in early retirement don't deserve to be rejected as rags or treated as numbers but deserve full attention to solve their problem and their problem will be solved by the government until the next budget rebalance and that's about what's agreed. And when we talk about the budget and what you've been doing in the previous term or the previous government, I'm one of the ones who says that nothing has started with us and that nothing will end with us and that there are things that you've done well. But this isn't where I'm going to praise you. But anyway, we're aware of what was good, and I will personally always say it was good. Because we're not coming to anything, this is the continuity of something that you started and we'll keep going and if there's any luck, it'll be even better, if we don't, we'll be sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5002	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5003	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'd react to Mr. Spike's statement here that there's a need to introduce order because people are coming for social aid with Mercedeses and I don't know what you're saying. So I'd like to ask you not to watch TV shows and that you're not doing parliamentary debates. For a parliamentary debate, however, we should read a little more and bury a little deeper into some things. This kind of casual talk about people who are socially endangered and who are certainly not easy to come to the center every month and live on welfare, is not quite correct to talk about them that way. What you're talking about is local politics. It's Mr. Spica in the local self-government. Like local self-government ingenuity and what some colleagues used to say here today, they're also chasing pots, which is that kids, people who have high wages get free textbooks, that from local self-government units. But that state will not be able to do anything, they are projects of local self-government and thus differs life in Zagreb, Umag from life in another environment. Therefore, you will find it difficult to do something because local self-government has the right to spend its money on social programs as it estimates, there are not many control mechanisms. Some deliberately let go that there are no control mechanisms because it's their electoral body. So there's a lot of stuff. We in the city of Zagreb pay the biggest tax and have such a mere kitchen where there is no order, where people come like that. But I'm asking you not to go after two things to a local self-government policy that doesn't have a control mechanism and a state that has a control mechanism. And I'll tell you again. Among social benefits users, you can only find by statistical error perhaps a man who does not deserve it. So, the sociale is in order. All those who receive fines are indeed receiving them because they have nothing to live on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5004	Thank you. They'll answer the esteemed Milivo Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5005	Dear colleagues, don't get so excited. I of course didn't say that you were creating a mess or that you left chaos saying that we would seduce order. Take that more as a figure, a stylish figure. So you have a very large number at the local level. You should admit that, because we see it, we get emails every day, we get calls every day. There are a very large number of people who abuse social assistance at both local and national level and you certainly know it. And when I say that we're going to try to bring order here, then it's not an attack on you that you haven't tried or done everything to seduce the order. Yes, you've done as much as you can, and I say you need to make even more effort and make an even greater contribution to all of it, because there are still those who receive social assistance from the state, and they live in luxury villas, drive expensive vehicles, or work the opportunity when they do certain certificates on an annual level, then figure out whether or not to have. So I'm just saying that there's got to be order in that segment, and there's got to be plenty of room at least based on what we're getting from the field. And when it comes to state and local, there's no big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5006	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5007	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Spika, you justified this budget at the beginning of your presentation, as Minister Maric said in the end, it is indeed a conservative budget in which there are no clear guidelines for future action. You're justifying him that the government isn't complete yet, that it's a little time. But Mr. Spica has been five months since the election. You mentioned the word continuity, and I agree with my colleague Mrsic that in this way and if you talk about the continuity in the budget that you recognize, therefore, the action of the former government. However, there is continuity in political parties. The political parties go to the polls with their platforms, programmes and on the basis of these programmes, they get votes, citizens' trust. After that, you had, the Patriot coalition had negotiations with the Most, a lot of things agreed. But these things aren't in this budget right now, they're not, we don't see these guidelines, we don't see these directions especially when we talk about structural reforms. And what we want to tell you is you can't just justify it by saying there wasn't enough time, there wasn't enough time to form a government. Because there was plenty of time. I say there must be continuity in political parties and must say clearly what they are planning to do in the future when they go to the voters. Unfortunately, that's not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5008	Thank you. They'll answer the esteemed Milivo Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5009	My dear colleague, I did not take any special part in making this budget except that my party gave some of its ideas so that certain things should be resolved. I'm not supposed to defend the Minister of Finance here, nor should I defend the Government, nor should I praise you for leaving something special behind some big cake, so now they'll have this miracle to share. So we have one government, this is the beginning of a term of office. Someone says four years, someone says three months, and we'll see how long it's gonna be. But this is the first budget of this government. And whether they had time or didn't have time it will best be said whether all these reform things we talked about in the pre-election campaign were now implemented in the budget or not. Because I said it could be done to change legislation. So at this point, if something is defined by law, then it must follow the item in the budget. You know that, I guess. If I say that out of 120 billion expenditures over 100 billion, we've already been assigned, so you won't, you won't, but that's it, all of this is cosmetics. And what will be and what time will show is this period after the adoption of the budget if it is adopted until the first rebalancing we will see which direction this government is going, whether it is a reform direction or it is a pull-off by hand and we are going all over again as it has been so far. But we'll see about that. Neither can I, nor can you. I don't have a glass ball. I hear what my colleagues say, what they say, what they advocate. Is it a demagogy, whether these are sincere intentions about it we will see, I, like you, as the entire Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5010	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas, part, and part after that by the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5011	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We'll share time, I hope we'll at least share it. He says that the budget of the state is not a set of numbers that some might want to experience at the moment. The budget is an indicator of the direction society is heading. One country's budget speaks of the democratic achievements of a society, the degree of tolerance, the protection of minorities who protect themselves as much as they want to be protected by most. In the past days and months of debates and discussions, society has shown that it is going in the direction in which we pointed last year when we issued that Declaration in Pula. And this budget is definitely a confirmation of that. In previous discussions in this House, we have shown that the position of national minorities must be given special attention because the reduction of rights and thus the funds cannot be continuously implemented. The institutions of national minorities have been led to the brink of survival. In many areas programmes simply cannot be implemented. It flows from hollow to empty, trying to find solutions to keep the acquired contents and often leads to the very limit of the law. In the past few years, the funds have been permanently reduced, and now we've come to an end. First, the quality of the programme was violated and now the sustainability of the basic programmes is questionable. When we discussed the government, we were promised government support that minority rights would not be reduced and therefore three representatives of national minorities' clubs voted and supported the government. This confirms that minorities were only needed when they were to join the EU, when agreements were to be signed, to meet the requirements, to support them. The projection of the budget and the situation in society unfortunately shows that further progress cannot be expected in the coming years and this will lead to many problems. The National Minorities Council's funds have been reduced permanently since 2009, at the time they were at a level of 43 million kuna. The new budget envisions 33 million kuna. I have not seen, I have not read, no one has shown me that in such a short period of time no government office or institution in the Republic of Croatia has reduced funds to this extent. It seems that reforms are only being carried out in national minorities for six years. We see that the projection of the budget will continue to continue, so we'll see in a few years which line we'll reach. In total, one quarter of the funds were taken away. During that time, minorities were organised differently, institutions were formed, the number of users increased significantly. The particular problem for us is that minorities live mainly in rural areas where development is much smaller and the justification that increased funds to cities and municipalities in these areas are not good for us. Minorities are often the only holders of social life in many areas especially in rural areas, so if we take away national minorities then we take away the primary population of the poorest areas of the Republic of Croatia. A particular problem is also the issue of using the funds that we get from home countries because they are often linked to co-financing, and by reducing these funds, it will lead to new difficulties in developing the environments in which minorities live. The proposed reduction is not satisfactorily justified and is questioned by the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law and the enforcement of commitments made by the Republic of Croatia from pre-accession negotiations with the EU, as well as by a whole series of inter-state agreements and contracts in relation to national minorities. As for the means of raising and educating members of national minorities, they have not been significantly changed and we are pleased. The funds for the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities are reduced to 10.3%, but the fact that new users are emerging is ignored, leading to some national minorities getting 88.9% less funds than in the last year. These funds are intended for the cold drive of homes built by the queens of our country, funds for the preservation of cultural heritage, these funds allow institutions to work and they cannot be the subject of competitions. These are constant programs that make sure that institutions survive. It's about associations that have existed for over 100 years and that shouldn't be touched. As far as the Ministry of Culture's funding is concerned, I am not satisfied that the new concept sets out funds for certain programmes of national minorities because I think that national minorities have contributed to the wide variety of culture and the richness of the culture of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the rest of the budget is concerned, I am partially satisfied here. I read that the funds to help cities and municipalities in the area of Baranja increased the Prince’s vineyard and the White monastery by about 1.5 million kuna. However, I am not sure that this is the only way to help these areas. We have one item to rent land, state land. The rental of individuals pays 350, 400 kuna and the market value is about 1500 kuna, which translates into that those areas that have great wealth in the country cannot make the revenues of those they should make. I'm also not happy because I don't see more significant investment in Baranja, there's no Corridor VC, there's no further construction, there's no bypass around the White monastery, there's no dealing with the issue of cross-border crossings from Osijek to the Hungarian border, etc., etc. I think that should work. Here you go. And say we'll support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5012	Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5013	So, never have minorities experienced such a reduction of funds as in this budget. Neither at the time of Tudjman's HDZ, nor at the time of Racan, nor at the time of Sanader, nor at the time of Jadranka Kosor, nor at the time of the government of Mr Milanovic. I guess that's the kind of time that came, I guess that's the kind of time that came. But if you want me to tell you one thing that you probably won't, you're throwing an ugly picture at something that could have been far better, something that could have been far better accessed, and if you let it go again, with little money. Because minorities, National Minority Associations, cost a little money if you go watch. However, it seems that it has become a sport today to humiliate national minorities, to speak out on national minorities, to speak of national minorities as some segments of the population benefiting from the budget, to say only some parts of the population that are otherwise, in order to say endemicly negatively towards national minorities, we would not be worried at all. If only certain media were to say so, if only certain portals were to say so, certain journalists wouldn't worry us either. But politics, however, has unfortunately become that way. This is also reflected in the ugly image, I repeat, which is tossing on the entire area of national minorities. And don't forget it's a sensitive area, a sensitive area, and it's reflected in the budget, of course. Compared to 2015, everything decreases. Funds are being reduced through the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, funds are being reduced through the Council for National Minorities and more than 10% in one case and the other. They're shrinking in one way that we don't even understand the resources for the press of national minorities. Let's take it, I spoke last time, I'll repeat, we only have one newspaper that's daily with national minorities and we only have one newspaper that's in foreign language in Croatia, it's always the same newspaper of the Rijeka La voce part of the half that belongs to the EDIT publishing house and the EDIT publishing house on, in the Ministry of Culture no one knows why the funds are cut in half. All this tells us is that it has not yet been achieved or has not been achieved or taken yet, let's look optimistic at the future, no agreement has yet been reached between the national minorities and the coalition that is in power at the moment. I think it's one form of punishment for national minorities because they're not within this coalition of government, this government. I repeat, however, minorities did not support a coalition in power in the 1990s, a coalition, a party in power but the cuts were not such, however, were far away. At the time, the government, I'm talking about Tudjman's government, was more sensitive. It was thought to be a sensitive area. It was thought to be something to look out for because when you don't look out for such things it can't happen, nothing nice can happen. It wasn't just because the world looked at it, it was and it was because it felt still, it felt like a value to be respected. And then, let's not forget, it was then the best constitutional law on national minorities, it was called the Constitutional Law on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. So at this point we are in this situation, the National Minority Club together with other clubs that we thank at this point, club HRID, IDS, Milan Bandic 365, with minorities etc., we will give some amendments. The amendments, these amendments are actually aimed at establishing the balance that was in the last year. It means the amount that was in last year with items corresponding to the items in 2015. I do not hide that we are in negotiations for such amendments but I do not hide that the answer to such negotiations has not yet been, Mr. President and the gentlemen of the government satisfactory. If that answer will be satisfying, it will also be a satisfying voice. If that answer will not be satisfactory then neither will the vote be, for this budget it will not be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5014	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5015	A fellow policy usually speaks one thing and the other works. However, when it comes to minorities and reducing the budget for minorities of 230 million when 60 million are cut off, then we rightly have to be worried about everyone, not just the minorities and not just you. But how did this start? This started with a speech that didn't like it, so let the others who preceded even that speech because he has his own graduation. First, it started quietly, and now there's serious talk in the budget. So at first there was a word, at first there was a word. Now here in the budget, we've cut the money, and third, what's going to be the third? Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we'll discuss sending, a law that would intend to send an army to the border, and then what the day after that? On the streets?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5016	The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5017	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, it is brought into a causal-consequential relationship word with certain acts. I hope that's not the case. I'll try to put the ball down. I hope that both at the beginning and at the end, there was a word at the beginning, and in the end there would be a word because we were and we built all those years. You know I've been here many years, I've built with you all those years, civilized society, and I hope it stays that way. So at first, Mr. President was the word, and it will still be me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5018	Thank you very much. The next one is the replica of the esteemed representative Steve Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5019	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I am very sorry to hear these stories about our minorities that they suffer so much in our society in Croatian, yet I cannot mention that we Croatian people who live very well in this society have only one mother Croatia and we get from it as much as we get and we don't complain much. At least not some, some more, some less. And yet you get some more donations from the mother state of any. I must mention that my village of Jarmina is located between three Serb villages, the majority Serb population inhabited, and it is called Karadzic, Gabos and Island and is in the back of Markusica, of course as a center. So I have to say this at this point in Gabos, 10 houses are being built, in Markusica one twenty, in Karadzic two, in Gabos one three to five, and in my village no houses at the expense of the state budget. Furthermore, I must say that all three of these villages and the fourth in the background were a place of special state concern, and my village Jarmina was not of particular public concern although it was on the first line. Our church is down 2.5.92. at noon exactly when people were expected to be at Mass. They weren't lucky, and their churches weren't touched by us. I don't know what the reason we didn't, but we didn't. The fact is that they stayed, and even after the war, we, the Croats, restored churches that no one had even gone to before the war, that's what this is about. Furthermore, it is also visible that they receive funds and have an employee between 40 and 50 on the basis of work for the welfare of national minorities, so I wonder if in Markusica In any place, there is also one employee based on obtaining these funds to fight for the interests of the national minority. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5020	Thank you very much. Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Furi Radin. I'm begging you all, we're gonna stay creepy for a long time. First we all stick to time, the second one I'll be pretty strict now in whether it rises in time or not to respond. Because if we keep doing that, we don't get breakfast here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5021	I'm going to make my contribution and I'm not going to answer this at all, I'm not going to replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5022	No, no. Go ahead. Okay. Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5023	Thank you very much, Mr. Croatian Vice President. Well, dear colleague Radin, here we are, together and in the past term, and we are following the same problem, which is the problem of national minorities. And what we have to say is that we're being completely honest with the national minority budget has been shrinking these years. Namely, national minorities live in Croatian society and as such cannot be esculated from certain processes that occur in Croatian society, and we witnessed the economic crisis, the fall in GDP and so on. However, the way and the debate here is an esteemed colleague who, before me, replicated you speak of the fact that when national minorities are concerned, above all, with worldly, moral, ethical, whatever you want, they are very bad. And when I talk about you, my colleague Radin, my colleague Juhas or my colleague Stanimirovic, I do not view you as Italians, Hungarians or Serbs, but as people living in Croatia, as citizens of Croatia. And as such, I think you're our fortune again, and that's what I'm talking about, what I've been talking about before, and before that, as my colleague Juhas pointed out. Most members of national minorities live in rural areas where NGOs are often focused on the problem of national minorities social and every other life. So, not only are they aimed at members of national minorities, but they are at the whole community. And the majority of the people who live with them often participate in these same activities. Thus their lives are enriched, thus fulfilling some of their personal basic needs in their communities. And actually by funding national minorities we finance citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I really don't see the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5024	Thank you. The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5025	Yes, thank you very much. I mean, I can't say anything but agree with that, and I'm sure most of the MPs in this House think exactly the same way no matter which foreigners they belong to. I would like to point out that national minorities are actually sensitive parts of the population and that, if I were a member of the majority of national minorities, I would behave differently than many in many parts of this country today. I say most people, in my opinion, think the same way as Mr. Hajdukovic. It would be good to feel it in action.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5026	Thank you. The next replica is that of the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5027	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Radin, you, like your colleague Juhas, warned in your presentation about the fact that a significant reduction in funds for the operation of key minority institutions in the Republic of Croatia such as the Italian Union, such as the Hungarian Union, such as the Serbian National Council, the joint council of municipalities and others, which were founded not only on the basis of our domestic legislation but also on the basis of international contracts. And that represents the organisational form of self-government of spoken minorities. The reduction of money for the work of these institutions by 75% actually means making it impossible for these institutions to work. So it's not really rationalization. So it's not about 5%, 10% or 15% as it seems on average, but it's about a 75% reduction. Which means actually making it impossible for these institutions to work. And for that reason, I think it is minimum to make an amendment and that if one of those types of decisions is to be stopped, it is to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5028	The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5029	Yes, thank you very much. We have prepared a number of amendments. We're sorry we had to go that way. We know how unpopular amendments are when it comes to the budget, we remember whether it was HDZ or SDP in power or coalitions that those headed the amendment were always actually one risk and usually did not bring the expected results for those who submitted them. However, we still feel that they should be accepted among other things and because our institutions would in this way either cease to act or act under much more difficult conditions. Someone might be interested, someone doesn't have to be interested, but I assure you this society will lose if it loses the institutions of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5030	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5031	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I do not know why this psychosis is created in Croatia about some kind of threat to minorities in Croatia. I'd call it some kind of storm in the teapot. When we talk about the threat, I would say that diaspora is threatened by all elements while it separates from the state budget for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia about 50 million kuna per year. There comes 16 billion kunas out of country every year and these people don't even have the right to vote because they have to fly 6 hours to the destination, it takes 3 years to get citizenship, no fundamental rights as property rights have been solved, which has not yet been returned to people, for example. Fighter, Crannies, etc., Zrin. And about that, that psychosis is totally artificial psychosis. If we're talking defense rights, I'll just read you the law, it's written in '91. The year and when is the revision of these laws on pension rights of participants in World War II? Thus, the fighter is a Yugoslav citizen who participated in wars from 1912 to 1918 as a member of the Serbian and Montenegrin armies. It's beyond reason, it has nothing to do with common sense, I don't know how that threat came to be? You have 900 Croatian companies that are registered on the world market when we talk about economic diplomacy. What kind of economic diplomacy? There is no effect there, these are Croats, and I am not talking about the Croats from BiH where the surplus to the state budget contributes to 300m euros each year. These are real losers in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5032	Thank you. The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5033	You say the storm in the teapot, everyone has a right to their own opinion. I'm not going to answer that, I'm going to answer this part about what happened. Diaspora or Croats outside the country. I didn't change the constitution so the Croats outside the country would only have three seats, you changed it. I then warned that Croats outside the country should have, I repeat it once again and I already told you once what I was saying then that Croats outside the country should have but the quota number of their votes, the number of MPs that is but the quota of their votes. Just like we used to have. But you've changed the Constitution. The constitution can only be changed if HDZ and SDP agree. You cut it down, not me. Since you've cut it down, then I don't know why you're going today, the speaker doesn't understand. If you're going to need my signature to return that model, you'll have it. Answer this question to your SDP or respond to the HNS, do not switch to national minorities that diaspora is in a difficult position. I also think he's in a difficult position but I know what this has to do with national minorities. I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5034	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica. Please don't yell from the scene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5035	Comrade Radin, it is not good to say that so many funds have been reduced, for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the Croatian public. More individual associations of national minorities do not have the exclusive right to receive money than are placed in the state budget... National minorities and all associations of national minorities can run with programmes for those funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the only truth. There is no exclusiveity of someone who is Parliament and he can get the money and the other associations of national minorities have no right to do so. So if you look at the position of the national minority program then you'll see that the position from some 358 thousand has increased to 11 million. But that 11 million no longer writes this or that, but a public call and a public tender will be called, and all associations of national minorities will be able to run for the programme. Now, tell me, is it fairer or more correct, or is it paying for the exclusive?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5036	The honourable representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5037	It would be nice if the funds were the same, but I was saying, I can count, and you know I can count. Whatever those items are moving, there's still 11% less resources, yes, yes, yes. Yeah, because that's what we've been talking about for days with the Prime Minister. And now I see that your idea is this about being, and not seeing that you're well informed about it. Nevertheless, there has never been such a reduction and don't try this thing, as I would say, to interpret it in other paragraphs to take priority from MPs to represent better their minorities. It's not true, no matter what, the funds are shrinking, and that's the only truth. Very. ... Very, very low resources from fellow Shuker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5038	Thank you. We would now go to the next Club of Representatives and that is that Croatian Labour Party Labour Party, which will be spoken by distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5039	Thank you, Mr. President? How much longer do we have 15 minutes or what? I'm kidding. [[The President's Intruder: Of course.]] Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another picture or better said political mental map of the Government in the form of the 2016 budget, projection for 2017 and 2018. We are not satisfied with this draft budget, and I am truly sorry that this budget was no longer public for a few days. So how did we manage to find the means to transport students so that we might find solutions to some other things that obviously are missing in this budget. I can say as freely as a few colleagues before me that this is a vision-free budget and at least what it is, it is a reform budget and we have heard too much about reforms in these few months that are behind us. And I regret all those hours spent in negotiations, in agreements and in explaining what Croatia should look like in the next 4 years, which way Croatia should go. With this budget, with a budget like this, we saw that we really didn't translate everything we said into numbers. And the only thing Croatia will live for next year is really these figures because unless we have enough resources, we won't be able to realize any of what we want. So what are the problems of Croatia? High unemployment, especially young and harder employable groups, wage default, poor economic activity, low investment, more and more citizens in the category of poor, low benefits and assistance for the most vulnerable groups, poor agricultural policy and no care.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5040	Let me warn you. My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you, I beg you. I know you're late, it might be a little hard but let's just calm down and let's hear our colleague say what she has to say about the budget. I'm really asking you not to talk in the benches, so we can hear what your colleague has to say. ... Well, I also told my colleagues on the right, and I'm looking at them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5041	Therefore, the problem of Croatia is also poor agrarian policy and does not care about Croatian farmers and agriculture, the departure of young educational people and aphided experts, the non-compliance of the labour market and the education system, and the budget should work exactly in a way to fix all this that is wrong in the best possible way. And we're asking a very simple question whether this is the budget that we've given answers to these challenges. The planned funding for support payments for farmers from 2.8 to 2.2 billion kuna has been reduced. Funding to the Agricultural Land Agency is cut by 3.5 million kuna, although agriculture in Croatia has been declared a strategic branch. The Ministry of Education gets less 158 million kuna and we said that we want to be a state of knowledge and, in addition, keep our young experts at home in order to build the Croatian economy with their knowledge and abilities and make it a competitive economy. Social assistance and benefits, compensation for assistance and care less by 44 million, one-time benefits less for 7.9 million kuna, personal disability less for 4.1 million kuna, family accommodation fees less for 1.3 million kuna, other fees and aid less for 26.3 million kuna, employment benefits less for half a million kuna. And you promised to implement reforms with the aim of preserving the social state. This is a social state demonstration only in these few items I've just mentioned. To talk about the poor demographic picture of Croatia, and to reduce the payment of the child's allowance is indeed irresponsible and also unserious. Not only are you giving yourself an auto-goal, and even those long-announced one-time benefits for newborns can't be taken seriously after all these items on social issues that we read in the budget. We want to employ more difficult employable groups and young people, and we are reducing the remuneration of the Employment Service by 366 million kuna. The Croatian Employment Service should implement employment policies, seek to help the unemployed to re-employ, enter the world of education in order to acquire the skills needed for the labour market and thus contribute to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And all the time we're talking about the Croatian economy, the incentives, the investments and the only thing that can get us out of it. The preparation, implementation and support of strategic objectives to strengthen the economy of the Republic of Croatia in this budget is lower by 10.3 million kuna. Implementation measures Industrial strategies are less than €50.5 million, and these funds are designed to implement a regional support operational programme for investment in equipment with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of industry. And after just these few items, we come up with a way of filling the budget. So it's full of taxes that are mostly income taxes, taxes, VAT. We're growing all taxes except the profit tax. This means that we will have a lot more employees, that your employees will have a much higher salary, that they will pay a much higher income tax and that they will pay a lot more tax. The second item with which we want the full budget is the funds, i.e. to help from the EU, amounting to 9.7 billion euros. In these two months since this government came to power, and even before the pre-election campaign was held, the most we may have heard about the inability of the last government to withdraw European funds and not to encourage all and the economics and units of local self-government in withdrawing these money that we need in the first place. I'm asking a very simple question. In two months, what changed so dramatically in the intellectual part and in the material part that we can suddenly count on withdrawing 9.7 billion euros? How many new people we've hired, and does that mean that in two months, it's those who didn't know before, and today we've been listening here, too, to criticise that those who stayed in the ministries were making proposals for this budget, and that those who made proposals were employees of the former government. So, the new people are gone, there are no new knowledge, there is no new money, but now we are still very, very optimisticly planning to withdraw 9.7 billion euros. At a time when units of local self-government have already made their own budgets without asking whether or not these units of local self-government will participate in these projects. And if they want to, did they plan to withdraw these European funds from European funds? I would ask the ministers of five projects to say, after the final address, five projects you plan to implement with these 9.7 billion euros. You don't need more than five. The third thing with which we are planning a full budget is the sale of state property, and I also think it would be responsible that in this budget we have found a list of state property, a list of everything we intend to sell, which we intend to privatise because it is not the property of this government, is not property or parliamentary representatives, but is the property of Croatian citizens. And before we earn any kuna from the sale of this state property we need to know what we are selling and thanks to what assets of Croatian citizens we intend to keep on our feet. The Labourers asked me not to speak for 15 minutes, so I won't. Labourists can't support a budget like this. He's not only socially and insensitive but I still have to share my joy with you today. I think the prime minister mentioned the worker for the first time today, because he said that we must pay special attention to entrepreneurs and workers, so it sounded so good to me. But we can't support this budget because it's both insensitive and socially. I really don't see any big hopes from the economy. And what concerns me, I think, in particular, this item of nearly 10 billion euros from European funds is something that is only a beautiful wish, and that we have not taken seriously what it carries in the long run and what the consequences of such budget planning and such budget projection will cause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5042	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues are mentioned today on several occasions in education and science. The cost of this budget is frozen we would say and the more frozen the better for us, the deeper we freeze them, the better we will be. But education and science are frozen. Dear colleagues and colleagues will have opportunities for a day to at least defrost the area of science and education if we are willing to give up some of our own privileges. It applies to me as well as to my colleagues on the left of me as well as to my colleagues on the right of me, as well as to my colleagues in front of me. We will show whether science and education is the priority that really applies in society, which we set as a priority, as our first and only goal that can get this country out of the crisis that we are in. Let's wait a few days and show if we're ready to put education and science ahead of our own privileges and party interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5044	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned your colleagues withdrawing European funds and I would like to stress that efficiency or ineffectiveness has been assessed by the State Audit. The state audit made it clear in its assessment that part of the European funds were used effectively, however, did not apply the State Audit to the real assessment. 52% of the funds withdrawn in the evaluation means ineffective withdrawal of funds. You doubt that the old administration with new leaders will be more effective especially when we talk about the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. I am sure that those who are managing now have enough strength, will and knowledge and will do what is necessary in order to withdraw the largest part of that cake that belongs to us in the past years and which has lagged behind in order to achieve what we want, progress in the construction of Croatia, progress in the construction of infrastructure, regional development and rural development. They're all spaces where there's opportunities but they're not used enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5046	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5047	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague for the replica, and we agree that we need these funds from the European funds. But that's exactly where I show my fear. If the State Audit said that the past government was ineffective in withdrawing European funds, I am now asking what has changed in the structure of people, in the structure of property, in the structure of property or in the lack of money that we can now suddenly do such a big leap and say we will now do everything much, much better. And I agree with you when we speak even in units of local and regional self-government. We have these wonderful examples of people who know, who have shown on their own examples how and how to successfully withdraw these funds. What, though, of those who have not learned so far? And we don't have time in these years with this projection of the withdrawal of European funds saying that these people will learn online how to withdraw funds from the EU at some speed course. And again, we will do an additional inequality in society because we will have those who are good still be good, those who planned to spend those funds to work on certain projects and those who do not have money, who because they cannot plan and who have so far not learned how to work programmes to meet the quality of the conditions set by the EU and that, thanks to the good programme, they can certainly count on the withdrawal of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5048	Replica, the esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5049	Dear Mrs Tyrelly, you spoke of an active employment policy as one of the measures that should certainly help Croatia out of the crisis. I absolutely agree with that and, as a complement to your debate, I would like to point out that, in any event, additional amounts should encourage this measure to address the professional training of young people. I personally had a chance in Dubrovnik-Neretva County to meet a large number of young people who have really stood out and showed that they really represent one added value to all those who work in public administration, especially those who work in our development agencies. And I can say that all these young people are truly one treasure and I think that the amount of 2400 kunas they receive is certainly insufficient and should be further motivated by another larger amount. In this respect, one recommendation for redistributing that total fund of funds. As I have noticed, it will not be significantly reduced because one good part of the funds is secured from European sources. What I personally care about is, in my opinion, an insufficient amount of insurance for those whose companies are in blockades or bankruptcy proceedings. I am not sure that the amount seems to me to be of 47 million which is planned for those who are in fact the most vulnerable, whose employers do not comply with the legal rules and who remain without their salaries and are legally required by the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims to pay the minimums. I'm not sure that relationship corresponds to the real state of the Republic of Croatia. I'm a little worried about that because if we run out of funds, the more vulnerable they'll actually be on some of their own existential issues. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5050	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5051	... on the replica. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Yeah, we agree on one thing and another. These 2400 kunas for our youngsters should indeed be increased if we want our experts to stay. However, there is this other problem that we are devoting resources from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and we have said that we will coordinate the labour market or offer education, a curricula with the demand for the labour market, which we cannot say again that we will succeed here in this way. As regards insurance of financial resources for workers whom employers do not pay salaries and payments of minimumers through the agency, security should be increased. But when we look at these incomes from the basic income tax and the increase in the tax rate that we can expect to have in this year very successful companies that workers will not fire, which will not go into bankruptcy, which will not go bankrupt, which will not be closed, which will not be fired by workers but rather, and will keep workers, will increase their wages and will still hire some new workers because if we don't do so then we can't talk about the increase in income tax, from the basic income and cut. So maybe when we look at each other wrong, but I agree with you, we are all aware that in this year many more entrepreneurs, many more craftsmen will close down their businesses and their trades, that there will be many more unemployed workers at the employment office and that the agency will certainly need additional funds to pay them back those minimals so that they can survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5052	Replica esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Nancy, and other colleagues today, they've been arguing all day, actually listening to the debate, and I hear who got the most off. Most of all, science and education were taken away, most of all taken away by minorities, followed by persons with disabilities, or social benefits. We can conclude the most money has been taken away by the most vulnerable groups in our society. This I find completely unacceptable and, more specifically, when we talk about people with disabilities, what when you take that programme of key guidelines of the reform government then one of the items says, to allow a person with disabilities to return to the world of work. When looking at the item provided for in this budget, then it is clear that the item in which those disabled persons should be qualified for the working world is, of course, reduced. And we all know here, so that the return of people with disabilities to the world of work is actually a prerequisite for their independent life and the feeling that they belong to society, that they are useful to this society. And indeed we can now all of us here together ask ourselves which direction and what are the real guidelines of this government, which shows this budget, so what was adopted when this government was chosen and these key guidelines are not at all in this budget. Because this government has decided according to this budget that it will step even more on those who need help, and such a budget has now been put here before us, which is totally unacceptable. And I'm really asking my colleagues and colleagues, we've sent a few amendments just as far as the most vulnerable groups are concerned that when these amendments come to support us, they refer to people with disabilities and I ask you and your colleagues to support us in that direction at your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5054	Thank you. I would just once again warn all my colleagues and colleagues to refrain from talking to each other because you really can't hear who has the exposure or the replica. That goes for colleagues who are behind the pillar, fellow Shuker, colleague Kovačić, I ask you that, we must, I know that our concentration has fallen but I ask you yes, because you cannot hear a colleague or colleague who has an exposure. I'm really asking you not to keep ringing the bell. Will the answer be a replica? Yeah. All right, thanks. Next in the line, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5055	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Tyrelli, you are right, and all those who today have said that these huge structural reforms that we all talk about have started to be fierce and hit by the poorest categories of society, those who are essentially the most needed funds from the state budget. However, they have hit even more against those whom we all love to swear most and remember especially when it comes to pre-election, electoral promises. So it can be seen that in the budget for this year but even more important in the projection of the budget for next year and for 2014 but also for 2018 the funds are reduced for children's allowances are reduced, i.e. the increase in funds for that additional maternity leave and those of the famous EUR 1000 for each newborn child. Another 34 million kuna has been provided for this year. But look the same amount remained for the following year 2017 and 2018. I wonder if it will remain that way anyway, because here today we have received a promise that the amendment of the Government will bring out those missing funds to allow free transportation to students, but from that famous announcement on the wings, I don't know any demographic renewals, every child 1,000 euros will remain only at the level of the parole, although such a measure itself does not mean much by itself. But here's what might have meant, if maybe a lot of people hoped they'd get nothing out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5056	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5057	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Sobol, to ask ourselves the same question, but I guess that's just saying that they don't believe themselves that it is an incentive for parents to have a child and that this one-time fee will be something that will make parents become parents and improve our demographic image. This is how when you speak from year to year, sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth without planning any increase in that item we can only conclude that one who suggests such an item does not believe himself that it will receive some results and that we will be able to say in a year that our demographic picture in Croatia has improved. It's just another pre-election trick, another pre-election promise. But I have always believed in the Croatian people, I believe and now, and I know that I will not fall for 1,000 euros in compensation so that if I do not have the guaranteed existence of hell as a parent, I can take good care of my child in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5058	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HSU club and the independent Stipa Petrina, the distinguished representative of Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5059	I thank Mr. Chairman, I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the ministers, the government's representatives. I particularly welcome the prime minister of the first and second prime ministers who have the patience to listen. Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues see that this budget is so open clean copy paste since last year's 2015 with one single change. It's a slightly smaller income. Finally, expecting rebalancing as already said here at 6 months, the idea is that the spending side will also reach the budget of last year. So, the fact is that the draft budgetor of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has determined that the budget minus seven and a half billion kuna, so a billion euros. But we've been further warned, and we're further informed that this budget minus is going to grow by an additional two and a half billion kuna, or two, so there's going to be a nine-and-a-half billion kuna. I like to say as a field practitioner that the budget, the draft budget, paints the character and desire of those who predict it. There's no good budget that's down. That's what a dear friend and respected MPs, members of the government and the ini who listen to this every bitch on the beach and every towel on the beach. There's no good budget that's down. I don't care as much as I don't care about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia how the government will balance the budget, how it will balance revenues with expenditures. These others are less important, believe me. They are only interested in how they will get from the budget what they expect from those who have chosen to get from the budget what is very important at the moment for the quality of life of Croatia as state and Croatian citizens as well as those who trust us with both the legislative authority and the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the executive authority. The government's duties and duties to secure those revenues. It is not a problem dear friends and respected representatives and representatives of the spending party. Why can't the government make enough revenue to cover the budget deficit of nine and a half billion kuna. There are several elements to it. The first element of what we have is a very large emissions of black money, which, with the knowledge of all relevant factors in this country, points out from Croatia, according to the latest report by the US Global Financial Integrity organisation, has shown that in the period from 2004 to 2013, as much as $34.6 billion of illegally earned money has been exported from Croatia. That the largest amount of bull in 2013 is as much as $4.4 billion. If the money was given to respected colleagues and colleagues inflows and the economy of the Croatian state, it would be about 5 billion kuna. I see that all those who seek the spending side to increase would be satisfied. Another thing I would like to point out is the only possible way to increase the revenue side of the budget. We are all witnesses that the Croatian state in its own way has registered on all agricultural land. There are millions of acres of totally abandoned and at this point absolutely worthless, conditionally said worthless agricultural land. Shouldn't the aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia be to lease this land to all those who want it and thus prevent the import of agricultural products of 4 billion and 400 million Croatian kunas and thus to employ a part of the population that would pay the state tax through that employment, reduce unemployment, increase the income rate. Another thing that is very important for the income or income side of this budget, and also for each budget, is re-industrisation. So, re-industrialisation of this country has been completely exposed for 25 years to deindustrialisation, pushing the population towards the coast, pushing the population to seek the existence of tourism. We may see, unfortunately, another time or soon, how that orientation will only be broken on tourism very quickly, but God forbid it ever comes to that. So let's go back to re-industrialization. We see from the paragraph of the budget that a billion and 700 million are foreseen for the subsidisation of shipbuilding. Shipbuilding as a crown of all industry in Croatia had very deep roots. Here we have heard today that it is not necessary to invest or co-finance and subsidize shipbuilding because we have already spent 24 billion as one predecessor said in shipbuilding without getting some result. Dear colleagues and colleagues, that's not true. The truth is, who knows how to make a boat can do anything. Who knows how to build a ship? It's technologically consistent with time. No one's gonna build a ship that's out of date. By investing in shipbuilding but not in this way as the Government has passed, and according to the government, this too will invest, and this is to grant subsidies to those who took Croatian shipyards and there is nothing of those contracts that were presented to the public and to the Government when these jobs were concluded. Therefore, it is necessary to finance and subsidise shipbuilding, not just shipbuilding all industry that would allow at least 50 to 60 thousand cooperatives. And then we don't have to be surprised at anything if some political option says it's possible to hire 200 to 250 thousand workers. It is possible but only by the second distribution of money, the control of money coming out of the Croatian cash register. I like to say money has quite enough. Money in Croatia is disastrously distributed. It has been catastrophically deployed just for the sake of the political element of the money allocation. Now we've seen him pull out $34.6 billion. That's the facts. I'll remind you, I'll give myself freedom, if you remember when the change in power occurred in 2000 and the change in Pantochaka, then one American agency offered to Croatia that they would pay back $10 billion with a 25% commission. That's what everyone knows. I see a lot of you sitting here in that assembly and you've been one of the policy factors of this country. Then the president said no, as a very large commission, we'll do it in less. The fact is, we never got those 10 billions back then, and here we see from 2004 to 2013 is another $34.6 billion. Turn it into kuna, we'll see what the public debt is then -0. I always say it is a poor Croatian country, a poor Croatian government in which the smallest pension, listen well, is not at least 1000 euros and the minimum salary is at least 2000 euros. You're surprised? Don't be surprised. The fact is that by considering the expenditure side of this budget you see the most catastrophic disease of Croatian society as a whole, which is what you give or we pay more than 25% of the salary for employees. One item, Mr. Prgomet mentioned, at the Department of State Property Management, that item goes to 36%. Of the 38 million kunas, even 18 million are spent on wages, the rest on material expenses. But let's go back to this salary expense. The state government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Administration likes to teach local and regional self-government by saying it must not be spent on salaries of more than 20%. I agree, gentlemen, let's just put in the rules of the game for everyone to be equal. Or we are changing what is notorious practice in the last 25 years that game rules change in the game itself as the political power of that moment allows political options. That's really bad. What's been lifted? What are the subsidies? Which items have been cancelled? This morning, on the Assembly Committee on War Veterans, I found out that another 32.9 million kuna was found. Very commendable! Complimentary for the need to take care of Croatian defenders. I've only been curious since this was discovered when the original budget envisioned an 828 million budget. Where do we get that money from now on? So one strong group that fought for its right. Another thing that is worrying, ladies and gentlemen, is cutting budgets for, or items for science, science, education and education. I won't say it again. Only three elements can vex us among the world's elite countries. And that is, the first element is knowledge, second knowledge and third knowledge again. We're ending it. It's sad. Do we predict fate that we will be gone in 10, 20 years? And yet another terrible element, which suggests that this government has no intention of building Croatia's future, though. And that's the suspension of subsidies to the islanders that few people have ever talked about. No one, actually. The island council is indignant because the subsidies to development islands have been abolished, as much as 20%, and by 10 million, respectively, have been reduced by two. The funds for the island's projects and programming projects have been reduced by as much as 40%. The transport subsidy was lifted, down as much as 15%. I don't know how familiar you are, but countries that want marine orientation must stimulate the rest of the people on the islands. Norway, which is the symbol and example of the most successful country that implements this policy, gives free tickets, gives all subsidies, islanders and people living in border areas no taxes. And that's ours. But where to find that money, it stays nowhere. I say, that's very easy. This budget reserve we see is 900 million kuna it must be increased. In 25 years, ladies and gentlemen, she must have at least been 2 budgets of the Republic of Croatia. But we come up with one frightening piece of information. Instead of our usability of the budget, it's as we see the entire 10% will eventually be negative. With this policy, Croatia, neither the Croatian government nor the Croatian nation as a whole, nor the Croatian national Corps as a whole can go forward integratedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5060	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5061	A fellow Petrina you said, time goes and time is money, time goes and time is money. You said this year's draft budget for 2016 is a copy paste last year's 2015 budget. What I'm trying to tell you is, where's the good news? Then this draft budget for 2016 would have a much more humane person, would leave with more social sensitivity and would have more consideration for the socially most vulnerable and vulnerable social groups such as students. It would not happen if someone had thought to cut 94 million kunas into subsidising interurban transport and then today offer as a solution something that is only delaying, prolonging a solution to the problem that will take place on September 1st. Again the same problem, the students will run out of subsidies so far. If this budget had been copied last year, then it couldn't have happened to be subtracting 100 million kunas of social benefits from the most socially endangered citizens. It would not take away funds to encourage youth employment, i.e. an active youth employment policy, would not reduce resources to national minorities, persons with disabilities and, as you yourself said, would not in such a brutal way be neglected by the island by abolishing subsidies which, for the development of the island, are co-financing or subsidisation of certain shipping lines. That's what I wanted to replicate on your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5062	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5063	Thank you. If it's a copy paste, then you SDP guys should vote for this budget, that's one thing. Second, I agree with you that there has been an end to social giving. And I think I said that only groups that are politically strong, politically influential fought to get back what was taken from the budget. That's where I thought in the first row of return subsidies for tickets, it's simply illegal. The other thing and the defenders fought for their own, and I'm very glad. The rest of the groups, unfortunately have no political influence and that is the problem in Croatia what only shares the cake that is all of us who are politically strong at the moment. And it's a bad message, and it's a bad policy that's unfortunately been led for 25 years. It doesn't come from this government or your government, it comes from a dark and rude program that has its own '86 embryo. And there's no longer any dispute. So I'm saying, I agree with you, but let's have a little fun, if it's something copy paste, I guess we'll be unique in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5064	Replica's esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because if the budget was a copy paste for 2015 then it wouldn't happen if some items were reduced 40 times, 40 times. Well, for example, and I've already talked about it, and I'm going to talk about it because it's a shame for the University of Pula to be a co-financing item for the national component of European funds. We have a whole series of projects to develop at our university. You said knowledge is a key element of society's development. With this budget, we will not be able to finance the withdrawal of money from EU funds. We swear on these funds, predict that revenue from EU funds will grow 100% and then reduce the national component that is a prerequisite for withdrawing funds from these funds. The example of the University of Pula is best, for example, because last year, a new student home was opened at the university, which was all co-financed by the state budget, where local self-government participated, where the entire community was behind it. And today, today, when it is necessary to continue to develop to withdraw money from Europe, then we say no. And I am very interested in how what we were promised and announced by the Minister of Finance, the President of the Croatian Government, will be realized, and that is to increase the withdrawal of money from the European funds by 100%, when this budget does not create preconditions for this, but we are closing them quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5066	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5067	I thank the chairman. Here's the deal, Mr. coat of arms. When I said copy paste, I meant first of all the income item that was 107 billion in your 2015 budget, with what is now the item of expenditure with these funds outside of budgets as much as 124 billion. There's only 6 billion left to get to the cost of 2015. So in that part I was thinking about copy paste expenses, revenues. I agree with this other one. But not to say again, you and the government, the European Union and the European funds, I must say, I am a very big opponent of these funds, because these funds remind me of the lottery. So, a lot of people play, one gets a jack pot and they all point a finger at it. And let's re-analyze that, Mr. coat of arms. The fact is that Croatia pays membership fees the circus writes here 3 billion and 800. This comes up to 4 billion kunas we invest in the EU, membership fees or other basics. Croatia has 20 counties. If the money were to remain in the Croatian budget, then an additional 4 billion kuna from the state register regardless of respecting the project documentation could be allocated for each county of the 200 million kuna. You know what it would mean, then the University of Pula wouldn't ask for this money. So any county could get two million kunas. For example, my county that has 20 units of local self-government my local self-government would get 10 million kuna and I today wouldn't triba along with you write an amendment for these T1 petty aids On the other hand, applying to the European funds we've never done before. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] Okay. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time, time colleagues.]] All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5068	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, appeared in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5069	... The only one talked about it even though many talked about other things, so maybe they didn't even have time to say what was being reduced by this budget. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So under the subsidisation of regular passenger and high-speed routes, such a reduction and that you yourself have called what you say and the island council itself means life to the islanders. So, hit the islanders, the defenders, the students, the high school kids, the poor. What can we conclude? That this budget is not that it's not developmental, not that it's not just social, it's anti-Croatian. Today, yes, yes. Because there's no means that you've been replicated by a colleague named Peja Grbin, that someone and... If he knows he's going to invest in something, in some development projects where the day after tomorrow he'll be no better, the day after tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's not there. It's not there. Today, so when we discuss here in the Croatian Parliament on this budget on the March ideas, what would you say to Latina, I look after the March ids. It seems that in our proverbs, Croatian proverbs must be enriched for this proverb, given what the Croatian Government is serving us here as representatives or Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5070	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5071	Thank you. I'll continue what I had those two minutes of my own. So let's go back. I agree with you, Mrs Ingrid, and there are elements of what you said, that the Croatian government is working with this budget and with this policy. Don't be surprised about your colleagues from HDZ and the Patriot coalition, I've been saying that for a long time. And for the first time, I said anti-Croatian government, not for that. Because if any government I say, any government, not the Government, but any team that does the budget and does it in a minus, and thinks it will be covered by the sale of state property, and I am clearly referring to this property in 2011 by saying clearly from the register of state property what it is and how it has been reducing since 2000. And now what the prime minister says is 30 billion euros. What will be gentlemen when these 30 billion euros are sold out, what will be the Croatians and the Croatian state? Aliens, nation without land. What was going on in the history of aliens? It moved like who wanted someone. So if you want to fill the budget of the internal reserves where you can fill the budget you certainly have. It is most inadmissible and anti-Croatian to sell any property of the Republic of Croatia without the real purpose of this sale being emphasized here and do not discuss here in the Croatian Parliament. Because don't forget every task of units of local and regional self-government requires the government's consent, and the government can be in charge without asking anyone. One more thing, we were in charge at 5.99% interest. Today the price of money on the world market is 1.8 max 2.2. Why aren't these debts reprogrammed? So what do we get? Instead of 4 billion and 700, we'll be paying back less. And there will be savings and profit on the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5072	Replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5073	Thank you very much. You told your colleague, Petrina, in your debate that certain rights to the islanders had been abolished. In order to abolish certain rights towards islanders, some laws should, above all, be amended, by the Law on Islands, by the Law on Public Line Coastal Transport, by amending certain decisions which only the Minister can amend and then may speak in that sense. If there is a reduction in one item such as the public line coastal transport item to 270 million kuna, then we also have an explanation that it is so covered in execution for 2015 and that so much has been spent by shipowners in accordance with their contracts that they have for each individual line. They are now in trouble because for several years they have been entitled to a blue diesel and a cheaper price of oil. And that's where the big fuel savings came in. Only Jadrolini spends 20 million gallons of oil annually. With that price and with the contract reached in a public tender that is much higher, they have come into trouble that they will have to fluctuate with the state of income given to them from the state budget. We claim that no rights will be imposed, and in particular that the map will certainly not be implemented in 2016 or 2017 or 2018. It's the relationship between the law and the shipmen who got the lines in the public competition. As for some other items such as the water supply you mentioned, the amount is 10 million kuna. If more countries are spent, they will have to subsidise i.e. to rebalance and add to that item by the end of the year all that is spent because it is a permanent right that follows from the Island Act. Speaking of other rights, island transport has been a special item since 2002. No one's ever changed it, it's above standard to what we're saying today that high school kids have the right to travel all over the Republic. On the islands, everyone travels, and this country pays 35 million kuna in particular. Same amount as last year. So there's no abolishing the rights of the islanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5074	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5075	I thank the chairman. Dear Representative, I will only read you the announcement and cry out to the Eastern Assembly in Zadar in 2016 on the draft budget. You said the shipman was being arranged for a travel ticket subsidy. Since I spent the best years of my life on "Poorline" watching "Poorline" who lived her whole life on state mangers as well as before the '90s. I am also very much now, and I am also a member of the Workers' Council and President of the Working People's Assembly of International Navigation "Poorline" and I know exactly what is being done. So a boatman who enjoys it, whether I want it or not, a monopoly today on coastal transport and how state policy can affect him. But we don't want to talk about it, I agree with you that it's a controversy for new laws and new legislative proposals. But I want to tell you islanders as well as areas of special social care must have privileged status. Because if the islander pays more expensive, he'll move out. And I just want to know if the pressure on the islanders is, and you see Croatia's belly, which is a mountainous and hilly area, is part of a planned plan to push the entire population of the Republic of Croatia towards the coast, tie it to tourism and weaken the national Corps, weaken the geostrategic position of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I think the islanders must have special status. So there's no payment card, no preferential price. So let's rephrase the Norwegian model for God's sake, and we've made heaven on earth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5076	Thank you. Next in the debate on behalf of the HSS club, HDS's distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5077	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, rapporteurs, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. On behalf of the HSS and HDS Club, we will support this budget because above all we all agree that we need a state that works, that we need a stable system and the basic prerequisite is that we have a adopted state budget. And I think that for this reason this budget should be supported in this House because we expect both our fellow citizens and craftsmen and entrepreneurs and farmers and education and health and science because without the adopted budget there is no transfer of funds or projects, there is nothing. Here I congratulate the minister and everyone, Prime Minister, on the courage to go out with the budget to the Croatian Parliament in such short time. Because there was criticism that it was too fast, that there was not enough public debate, that not all stakeholders were involved in the creation of a budget. But simply because of the circumstances in which Croatia is located, I think this is a good path and that those guidelines shown in the budget speak in a direction that the Republic of Croatia could function through this budget. Of course not everyone is happy but there are elements that say why this budget should be supported. First of all, one good direction has been highlighted with a desire for accelerated fiscal consolidation. Also with a deficit reduction of 7.5 billion or 2.2% and in the previous year it was 3.7%, which still shows one courage and a tendency to consolidate the state budget and to go towards a stable budget year. What I also pointed out on the Committee on Budgets and Finance is the positive direction of this government and the minister and the emphasis on withdrawing funds from the EU. It was here and the dilemma of whether we had the capacity to do it, whether it was feasible. So I would point out that during the pre-accession period and in recent years, the Republic of Croatia has used a series of projects where, in all projects, one significant part was technical assistance through which all state authorities had the ability to team up, educate and create assumptions that we have administrative capacity to withdraw these funds and most of these people stayed in ministries. What was missing and this was coordination between state bodies and just the minister pointed out in his statement that his desire is to continue to strengthen those capacities through a more quality coordination. And what is more important, by reducing these administrative barriers through new legal solutions, to make these funds more accessible. And through support to the institutions involved and in this business to make it possible to withdraw funds from the EU. I would also stress the capacity that we have and at regional and local level because most of our counties, municipalities and cities have quality development agencies and other supporting institutions and quality personnel. What is missing is precisely that, the flow of information, that we know how to prepare quality for writing projects and the main problem was pre-financing and co-financing of projects. And that is why I am pleased that here in the direction of the ministry is an increase in funds for the Ministry of Regional Development, an increase in funding for the EU project co-financing fund. The only thing that needs to be done is for this coordination between local and regional authorities and interested applicants to be better and for the absorption of these funds to be greater. I would also point out the problem of plating funds from aid within the general state where the funds, which are allocated to co-financing of municipalities, cities and counties, are only 5.6% of the counties or 37 million kuna, especially when we talk about counties that are developed by an index of development below 75%, which are primarily Vukovar-Srijemska, Osijek, Virovitica, Požeška, Brod-Posaviska, Lička and that I am not counting further, that they should take care of the allocation of these funds that they get most, greater amounts compared to those counties that are above averages such as Dubrovnik-Neretvaska, Sibenik, Split, Zadar, that they are not angry, but such facts and figures say so. In particular, the different state bodies use different indices in calculating and approving aid. And some still use those criteria from the area of special state care, others use the indexation done by the Ministry of Regional Development in 2010 and the Ministry of Finance has some rules. So I think it would be necessary for the state bodies to agree on this, that we have transparency and that we know how these funds are distributed. And of course we expect these counties that are below 75% of the average to have more significant support in future periods so that they can equip and co-finance their projects. We are also particularly pleased from the Croatian Peasant Party that the Ministry of Agriculture is, however, in the budget plan for 2016, an increased amount of money by 245 million kuna. And that should be pointed out. And, of course, 2.5 billion were planned for direct payments. And what is currently current is what our family farms and entrepreneurs expect from us to receive information as soon as possible when the payment of incentives will start from these or direct payments, given the upcoming seed and indifference that is present on the ground. So I would ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture to send a message in the final word to our agricultural producers. They expect it from us. And also one significant shift in support of sectors which are in crisis, and I am most emphasising the dairy and meat sectors where the European Commission has recognised this problem and approved RH 1.8m euros to reach the end-users as soon as possible. And of course we welcome an increase of €625 million in funding to support rural development where we expect rules and tenders to be adapted to family agricultural economies, not to withdraw the largest part of the large company's assets and related societies, but to be rural development, even development of the region and to be a family agricultural holding. I would also point out a significant amount of 190 million kuna for the Ministry of Environment and Nature and the Environmental Protection Fund for the withdrawal of funds for projects from the EU where here, and there is one reason why they adopt the budget, because a large part of the craftsmen, construction entrepreneurs who participated in, in energy efficiency projects in construction and family houses and are similarly waiting for the payment of funds that cannot go until the budget is passed. So here is the appeal for them and for the jobs that exist in that construction sector to accept the budget. We also expect that, of course, I must say this because of the citizens of Slavonski Brod, the place in the budget, although these are not large amounts of projects where air quality is monitored in Slavonski Brod. And this project has already been launched through the education, monitoring and informing of citizens. A project has also been announced to monitor the impact of air quality on the quality of life, i.e. on the improvement of citizens especially targeted groups, children, people with respiratory diseases, heart disease and the like. And we expect the project to be agreed between the Environment Fund and the Ministry of Health and to be launched. Also, as soon as possible, the polluter cadastre so that we can go through our foreign ministry with a request to Bosnia and Herzegovina that they also build a polluter cadastre and that we can work together and that the citizens of Slavonski Brod have the right to clean air. It is also important to point out that it has been announced that tax policies will not be touched and thus we send a message to investors in one tax stability and security but that further redundancy of the economy and tax pressures on the economy should be sought. And here I would point out what I should also say, that this government through the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship has increased funds to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurs worth 300 million kuna, which will certainly contribute to the preservation of our crafts and entrepreneurs, as well as the creation of new jobs. And I'd still like to touch health care for a little while. Regarding the rehabilitation of public institutions and the law that will come to us and the contracts that would be signed between the government, the Ministry of Health, the county and the hospital, that part of the funds created, and the fact at least on the basis of information about Slavonski Brod Hospital, that in the meantime increased debts somewhere to 104 million kuna and now the hospital Brod, would not come to the burden of the county rather than to the budget and that part with the Ministry of Health contracts in which it will be settled. We welcome the expansion of healthcare availability through the expansion of the emergency medical network. But I point out the problem of the lack of general medicine and specialists, and should surely do everything with the ministry and the university to increase the registration quotas in the Medical Schools and thus ensure health care for our fellow citizens. I'd stop there, and my colleague, Dodig, will add a little more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5078	The Honorable Representative Goran Dodig will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5079	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs. Don't feel like you've cut me off. I'm glad you spoke well, because you spoke well, so if you took all 15 minutes, I wouldn't mind. And especially I wouldn't mind because I'm not a budget expert, I'm just trying to understand what's going on. And then I don't understand when we chose the Minister of Finance was undivided, an undivided opinion that it was an extraordinary quality person, a quality man who could do it. And he did it with his associates, and then here we heard the words as unreformal, and then behind that he was socially and laborably insensitive. And actually one almost... So, one situation that has turned into actually a political reckoning that doesn't make any sense to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I want to say this in my brief discussion. I think this budget should be given a chance even though we're all unhappy. We're unhappy because we're thinking about our own particular interests and we just see our share, so there's no person here who wouldn't increase the money that belongs to his interest group. Anyone who says he wouldn't want health care to have more money, any one who says he wouldn't want more pensioners to have money, businessmen, undeveloped areas. Approaches islands, etc. That's nonsense, that's absolutely ridiculous. There's not a single category, so don't. Who is so insensitive, or if you want to be foolish, that you wouldn't give your children all the benefits, including travel money. So, we'd all like that. The question of real goals and real opportunities is raised. What I don't quite understand, but I've been trying to figure out at this point is what the deficit is planning. It's planned because it's just impossible to cover it all in one year, because it's been going on for years if I understand. And for four years, I hope we make more money than we spend. That's the point. There's one detail I'd like to say. Let's not fool ourselves with European funds too much. European funds are help, but what seems to me to be the most negative thing in this story is that they paralyzed our ambitions and paralyzed our brains, so we started thinking someone else will solve our problem. And let's get rid of these illusions. I was going to submit two or three amendments tomorrow when it comes to science. And you'll be surprised, the amendments refer not to natural sciences where they belong, but to social sciences. For what? Because through social science and funding, and it's not big. There's a lot of people who do their work, who don't pay. They're volunteers. Social sciences are needed to be very pro-pulsory, to change the mental set of society that is deep, deep in one crisis that is also moral and if you want to be light-headed not in terms of some dogmas but simply we live in society of aggression, live in a society of intolerance, live in a society of non-understanding others, and therefore social sciences are extremely, extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5080	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Sandra Krpan, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5081	Dear Vice President, counterpart Vlaovic, Dodig, colleagues and colleagues. So can you really stand in front of Croatian citizens without shame with such a budget proposal? Is this your dream Croatia? So you want Croatia to remain uneducated. You make young scientists leave Croatia, you are patriots, you protect children, you are disabled. You're saying that they are, that means they're an interesting group, and that we'd like to raise funds for them. Well, I'm proud that my interest group is disabled children. Where is the Minister of Education today, where is the Minister of Social Policy today? They should be blushing today because of the proposals contained in the budget. Send a message to the Croatian citizens that you don't care at all. Tell your colleague Vlaović about the short term. So cut off your time, and go home, for it is not a ease for you. You've offered speed in reforms, and it seems to me that they'll take a snail step slowly and snottyly. Today Croatia has become a theatre of absurdities and we are all waiting for Godo, but he will not come. But Mr. Oreshkovic, you can put your budget under the mouse and go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5082	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5083	Dear colleagues, thank you for your replica, which is a general assessment of the budget, not my presentation. In my presentation, I have always pointed out examples where, through budgetary means, EU funds are being positively attracted to new jobs. And only new jobs can generate income and thus provide funding for funding and education and science and children. Of course I agree with you that science and education should be financed, but people should be respected. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5084	No, no response to the replica was given by the distinguished representative Vlaovic I'm asking you, colleague Dodig was a replica of her colleague Vlaovic. [[But she said be ashamed of everyone, you know. Don't, I heard right. I won't tell you that.]] You'll get a chance to replicate more, colleagues have exposure, so here I am, please. The next call came a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5085	Thank you very much. So as not to confuse Mr. Vlaovic's replica. So you said that there was an increase in funds and that this government increased funds for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which is not true. The funds were increased to the European Social Fund, which was transferred from the former ministry, i.e. the head was in the former Ministry of Labour and Social, not the social but pension system, and the second was the increase of European funds going through competitions opened in 2015. So the fact is just the opposite, the funds from our budget have been cut. To know how it works, the limits for small and medium-sized enterprises are reduced by 25% within these limits, and these are all the funds that are planned for European funds. So it's not good just to read what's in the budget, you should also know where the funds come from and what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5086	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5087	Thank you for your replica. We agree that you and I must invest more and make assumptions for the development of crafts and entrepreneurship. I think these funds should be in that ministry and I believe it will be more effective if the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship controls them and helps craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the application of these competitions and attracts these funds to preserve existing jobs and create new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5088	Next to the replica came the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd be replicating a respected professor. Dodig, I agree with him when he says everyone would like more. It's not a problem, my dear professor, if everyone would like to. The problem is, can it be for us? It's a measuring question of your budget. That is the question, the main question of all the questions is whether the government can settle the funds to meet all the needs of Croatian citizens? My thinking and facts, and I believe you've been to one of the presentations that you can do. And why since '90? For years, no government does, but we keep falling into what? In debt and sale of state property. I am interested in one thing: have we ever seen, in 25 years, the state administration as a stable and reliable service for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia? We didn't see it. And we saw the same thing between you and the EU local self-government as a stable and successful model for local environment development, model... And why do all governments keep avoiding applying local self-government models that are much, much better than the state-run state-run money management model? [[You don't understand.]] And I agree with everything else. It's just a question they want, everyone would like to know of course. Can we do that? I say we can, the others say we can't. And that's why it led us to do this every time we're in these 5, 6, 8 governments, let's trust the government. Let's go and see for the next government that we'll have 0 kuna values of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5090	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5091	Dearest colleague Stipe has no doubt that I am in favour of an effective state, that I am in favour of an equal state, that I am in favour of the social state, the rule of law, etc. And that's why I'm often lonely. However, I have come to the conclusion that solutions that are at a lower level are not always adequate for solutions in a wider space. I once called the minister, so you see what's going on in Vukovar, when Vukovar was falling, and then he told me from your perspective it looks different. And indeed, from my perspective it seemed different, and from his was a completely different story. The fact that it looked different from someone's perspective created unprecedented problems in Croatian society. So, I was at your presentation, she was great. I absolutely agree that it's being discussed, that it's being talked about, but you see in this House when we say '90. That's not right. Not since 1918, you know. And those tails are pulling. This government has now convinced me, this minister, convinced me that it has potential and that they actually think the same way and have social sensitivity as a speaking colleague. And she's telling me here to be ashamed of us. What, so how are we gonna talk without political consensus, without tolerance here? Well, we can't have in society conditions that will allow us to get out of the crisis. That's what I'm talking about. And I don't dare talk about the quality of the budget itself. As we don't trust the government, I saw them all yesterday, then we have nothing to talk about in general. I trust them until they fool me, then I'll tell you a lot of guys, no more of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5092	Thank you. Here we go to individual debates. Excuse me, excuse me, excuse me, here's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are 12 clubs discussing something over 7 hours, let me, of course we're nowhere near the end I'd say when we see the number of individual debates standing in front of us. On this, I don't know if it's half the way or whatever stock of the trip you allow on behalf of the government, and in your personal name, since it's been a lot to say and comment and questions, so to address some of them, the personal impression of my discussions is, I'd say a good part and expected. What makes me happy as Minister of Finance is that I hear a lot of comments and suggestions that individual and specific budgets of individual ministries and budgetary users but also what is also very good to hold a debate and a total picture of the fiscal policy budget, its role and, in general, to say about economic issues. Allow a few topics of these exactly which we mention, which we may have touched most, to share a few details for this speaker and in general not only for you but also for the Croatian public. Thus, it has already been mentioned quite often in the last few days in public on the subject of this transport. Surely this is one of the categories that we have also tried to identify and put in the context of what some of the respected MPs and MPs have said that we in certain segments, both social and some other policies, have introduced the allocation criteria. This is one of those elements that we don't have yet, and it's certainly intended to go in that direction, among other things. I think, regardless of the differences between us, both partly and politically and some other worldly. I think we all agree that in certain constraints or budget myths that we have to take care of a fairer and more rational distribution of funds. However we decided and at the phone session of the Government we actually refer the amendment to the Croatian Assembly in which the funds will be provided for the transport of high school students by the end of this school year to what it has been like so far, and of course we will take the debate further for the new school year. So these 32 million kunas that will be secured with part of the savings at the Ministry of Science and mostly at the level or division of the Ministry of Finance. We're talking about, like, 15 items. Among other things, what one of me thinks of the speakers on behalf of the club mentioned that the church will also participate in that part, the Croatian Bishop's Conference also proactively participated in this problem and in this part we will also make one correction. I think you understand that there are certain technical effects of that, given that it is an international contract, so all of this will be sent here on time to the Parliament and set. As for Croatian defenders, allow me today, I already apologized to all of you this morning, the reason for my short delay was that I was on the War Veterans Committee this morning where I would say live and polemics and dynamics of the debate. But let me also go this way, I have to fence myself partly again in terms of terminology, methodology because in this budget, or the draft budget, the categories of the 2016 proposal are compared with the plan of the last one from October when the rebalancing was last adopted in 2015. However, the starting basis that we went to budget planning for 2016 was the preliminary implementation of 2015. And I think there should also be a message for all of you here and, of course, the public and, above all, the Croatian defenders that, no matter what they are up to here, I'd say they were without, practically a good part without the defence minister that we were taking care of their budget and from day one, it was actually said that the budget of the Ministry of Defence from those general sources would not be reduced and, in fact, if you look, if you compare the total budget with which we are going to compare the preliminary budget, the execution last year it is larger by 32.9 million kuna. If we go through it, certain items grow or fall, surely that the subject of the permanent rights of the defender is something that we will take into account and what I can certainly say for this speaker and for this speaker that however the budget goes and develops that in that part we will surely take care that I say not to waste money. However, let me still count the items that are growing in the defence ministry's budget. Victims of sexual violence during an armed aggression increase of 22 million kuna. One-time rights under the Law on Croatian Defenders increase from 19.7. Public institution, Memorial center of the Homeland War Vukovar 15.4, home of Croatian veterans 5.3 million kuna. And one-time rights for families held captive and missing 2.4 million kuna, association of defenders increasing from 1.4. Employment of Croatian defenders 1.2 million. And what is especially, let me, there have been a lot of speeches and I think that the debate will continue and I am glad about that about these European funds. And I can also understand the argument that we should not look at European funds to save or destroy us, but the fact is 3.5 billion we pay every year in European budgets, we are a member, a full member of the European Union, and in any case we need to make as much as possible withdrawal from these European funds. And what I look forward to in the defense ministry's budget are two items, operational programmes, effective human potentials that grow by 13 million kunas and the competitiveness of cohesion of $9.1 million. I think it's a very good message and a very good defense population because through these programs, we're not just talking about rights, we're not just talking about, Thank you very much, just for a second, we are not only talking about the rights of Croatian defenders but we are talking about, in fact, I would say about all of us, about the intention of Croatian defenders through schooling opportunities, requalification allowing participation and stronger participation in the labour market. [[Intruder: Minister's time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5094	There's usually a replica, so you'll have a chance to tell if you missed something. The first came to the line by a distinguished representative of Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5095	Here's Mr. Minister, you said that the government's amendment returned the funds to the state budget for the transport of students. It doesn't matter at all why something led you to the government going through the amendment, but to solve the problem. You also said it was worth it by the end of this school year and that you should watch and that you will consider censorship. I couldn't agree more. If we are talking about social justice, if we are talking about social sensitivity, I think it would be right then if we started to take our property cards from ourselves, our complete blood count is visible and available to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Then it's okay to talk about any form of social assistance, whether we're talking about childcare prices. Then it would be okay to, on the basis of the data, whether it is through the OIB or what units of local self-government have a complete state and insight if we really want to implement one social category and to provide help to those who need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5096	Here's the reply to the replica, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5097	I'll just have a quick answer. I mean, more or less, I'd say I agree on all this, but just when you mentioned it, so I'm gonna take the opportunity not to know if I'm in college with the Rules of Procedure right now, but this last aspect that you said to the units of local and regional self-government. Since there has been a lot of debate and talk about the distribution of these funds, I must say that there is a certain need to be a debate in that segment, I would say. Because on the one hand we're talking about a very complex distribution system, and on the other hand we're talking about this so-called. The development indices that have resulted in the fact that they actually need to be looked at from the beginning, once again taken into account and all together in some way I would say to simplify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5098	Thank you. The following came to the line, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5099	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. You said in your discussion that you were leading the budget, which is fine, but then you should have presented it to the Croatian public. It also means what the deficit was last year, what it was at that moment, because it was presented to the Croatian public to save 2 and a half billion. If it's a deficit on the information that I have, and you're going to correct me if it wasn't exactly under nine billion kuna, then it's not savings in this draft budget of two and a half billion, it's something about billions of kuna. So, it's good to talk about what was the execution, but then we should stick to it not only when it suits us like that, right? In the case of the Croatian Defence Ministry, but in the overall story. So you have to say what was the deficit and how much was the execution for 2015 according to preliminary data and then you'll see that we're not talking about any savings of 2 and a half billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5100	Here's a reply to the replica of the Honorable Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5101	Thank you very much. So, as far as these savings are concerned, 2 and a half billion kuna, they are really talking about and talking about them because what we said at the beginning at the presentation was not in the Croatian Parliament, but when presenting the guidelines for budgeting themselves, we said, therefore, about our intention to freeze the nominal level of the expenditure side of the budget from so on. General sources at the level of preliminary execution last year. However, in parallel with this, we had to plan 500 million kuna more funds for the budget this year without actually starting to work on the budget. 450 million kuna more for the national component of co-financing of European projects, 400 million kuna more for the indexation of pensions, 240 million kuna more for increased interest, 90 million kuna more for the Schengen and now not to list all items but we will get to the final figure of something over 2 and a half billion kuna. I repeat again. For these increased 2 and a half billion kunas, we had to find savings to meet our basic direction for this year, I repeat, once again, the freezing of the expenditure side of the budget at the level of last year's execution from general sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5102	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5103	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you have well noticed from this debate that the biggest problem is the development index which is unfair and unfair mainly for areas that are truly undeveloped, and are declared to be developed. Because that development index, I don't know who did it when he did it. It really has nothing to do with the real situation on the ground in those environments that are in these border areas and forgotten by the central state. So we have an example of a number of decentralised assets that go through the Ministry of Finance, so let's just say the example of fire department. Public fire departments are financed from the budget, the state, but voluntary fire companies are not. So let's say we have an example in Istria of a dozen fire departments, public fire departments, and they're all funded by the State's Treasury. And these border areas, like Split-Dalmatia County, which is the largest county has one public fire unit in Split. All local self - administrations remain, no matter what has been abolished and what has been declared developed, and they are underdeveloped, must, for example, finance the part. And so on and other decentralised means. So absolute injustice and so on about health care. A number of counties are... Homes of health, some are independent homes of health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That money goes then, these decentralised funds go through the counties that re-place that money either as they please or as police key. So we have a lot of work this year to achieve this even development, and to stop that injustice mainly in these areas that the former government has brought to this new law in this position where they are and the position to die out of these parts. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5104	The reply to the replica, the esteemed...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5105	Here's thank you very much, but just for a little while. Thank you very much, Mr. President. So you mentioned a segment of fire, public or voluntary fire companies, so that's what I would say, as well as the financing of units of local and regional self-government where we have quite a complex key that very often, at least according to the comments we receive from the field and does not result in that fair and fair distribution of these funds. Because the same thing in that distribution key is taken up by some elements that sometimes, I say, may not be too simple and have a very complex component that ultimately results in these dissatisfactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5106	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. She's the first one to represent Gordan Maras. I estimate that we will have about 480 minutes without replicas at this time of 48 individual debates, which is about 480 minutes without replicas, about 8 hours if it stays there. Well, here's your colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5107	Thank you very much. I'm almost certain my exposure won't cause any replicas because it will be constructive, from the head and from the heart, and there will be a comment on what we saw here in the House today. Prime Minister Oreskovic came and held an exhibition and offered us his vision that de facto shrugged down to three goals for the next few years. One is the reduction of deficits below 3% of GDP, public debt control and economic growth along the way. If this vision is already being applied in Croatia to the government for several years, since 2011, when we began to reduce the budget deficit with 25 billion kuna, we came here as Mr. Minister said after the execution until about 9 billion in 2015. And that's how it's supposed to keep going. On the other hand, in the case of economic growth, we also started in 2011 with a decline of about 4 years in the term of office of about 10%, and we came to have a 1.6% growth in 2015. We cannot turn public debt overnight and it simply has to be the result of stronger economic growth. And until we have an economic growth of over 3%, we're going to have a very difficult turn of this negative trend. On the other hand, the question of courage was also mentioned in the prime minister's debate. And he said that this government is expected to be brave. I don't see the courage of this government in this budget. I don't see a lack of courage just me, but coalition partners see it. We've seen HSLS say there's no reform, we've seen MOST on behalf of the club saying these are fire measures. So, even coalition partners don't trust the prime minister when he says he's brave, that he's moving resolutely into cutting, or certain reforms that should be made. Tempo's slow too. If you see the pace at which decisions are made in the Croatian government, I will give you only one example. When we had the budget of the first budget of the previous government in 2012 it was adopted on 24 February and the elections were two weeks later. So, for a month and a half, it took this government and this majority to get to the first basic document that would show how it would work next. And that's also a decision and a feature of this government's decision-making decision-making, non-transparent, in haste. Here we see today is finally and received a proposal for the defence minister and today the prime minister has just met him. It was probably a determined eye contact because they looked at each other and he realized that he was an ideal candidate. So, counterpart Brkic couldn't be, he waited a month for the prime minister to see him, but today when Mr. Bear's prime minister saw eye contact, he was enough to realize that he was an ideal candidate for the defence minister. I am not telling you this now because of the defence minister but because of how decisions are made in this government and why rating agencies write what they write about Croatian and ratings and image and everything that adorns the ruling coalition. And that's that the work is still missing. That there is no real job can be seen by example that the budget is almost identical and overwritten since last year. So the budget at the execution level is almost identical. At the cost level also almost so identical and the deficit is somewhat lower. We'll see how it goes over the period. What I am particularly concerned about in the budget is the issue of the economy, i.e. subsidies to small and medium-sized enterprises. So, when we listened to the prime minister while he was also a prime minister and when he got confidence in the Croatian Parliament, he said his focus would be, that he would be focused on small and medium-sized companies. That focus is completely lost. When we look at HBOR funding through it, or at the rate of interest, there's nothing there, 30 million kuna. When subsidies are seen with the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft, 25% are also reduced. And there will be no programmes that entrepreneurs have had in recent years, and they have applied precisely to those of the smallest entrepreneurs and craftsmen who cannot apply to European funds. And now a very clear message I'm sending those programs won't be. Hundreds and thousands of companies that used incentive programmes to go to fairs, domestic and international, craftsmen also, those who wanted to get incentives from 100 and 200 thousand kuna and had 1, 2 or 5 employees, those who wanted to subsidise the initial, start to buy a computer, computer and make for example the web site of 8 thousand kunas that she had formerly assigned, it will not be. All of this was done by this government and thus focused on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It means reducing the resources and in some way eliminating what good things have been offered to entrepreneurs in recent years of the last government and on which programmes could be used. In contrast, the European Union's funds are increasing, which are not the merits of this government, but the programmes that we have programmed over the past years. So this government has only inherited and will use the funds of the competitions that have already been called. There's nothing new. What concerns me is that I do not know the rules of the European funds and Minister Tolusic and Minister Horvat, who says they will change the rules that are now in force, that they will also increase the maximum amounts of support, i.e. to reduce the minimum amounts of support. This would indeed compromise the use of these programmes because they would lose several months to adapt these programmes. So it is not possible to do as Minister Tolusic said by the beginning of next week. That's what he said last week on the Open Show. I'm asking if those rules have been changed. Has anyone seen that the threshold for the maximum amount of support from European funds or the minimum has now been increased. It's not because a man has no idea. He talks on television, he doesn't know what he's talking about, and he doesn't know it's gonna take him at least two to three months to change those rules. And that's sad, and that's why I'm afraid that these 9.5 billion kunas or how planned it is in the state budget for eu funds won't be used because we have incompetent people who are willing to say something that isn't possible on TV. And on that side, I hope that people will learn little in the meantime and see how they can use European funds and how the competitions adapt. What I am sorry is also that it seems that after 4 years of successful implementation of the entrepreneurship impulse programme this year we will only focus on EU funds and that a whole series of programmes, 30 of them will be nothing. Entrepreneurs are calling, entrepreneurs are looking, but there's no program. And I am sorry that colleagues from the Most were also very loud in support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are not saying anything now. So in the process of negotiations, there was a strong agreement from the colleagues from the MostA on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and now that the funds are being relocated, when the expenditures from the Croatian budget are reduced, there is no sign of a voice. And on that side it's also something that's not consistent and that should be changed. In the end, I don't think our entrepreneurs will be happy with this budget. A lot of things that were like subsidies have been lifted. HBOR will obviously today, here we see a reduced rating with more expensive interest. So not only did the state get a negative perspective on the MUDOs. So not only did the state get a negative perspective with the MUDOs, but today it also got HBOR. So he's going down to that side. And what our prime minister said about the Star Wars, maybe the Force being with you, is my message to the prime minister because I want it to succeed, because I'm just afraid that in the end he's not Anakin Sky Walker who turned into Darth Vader and that the power that he's not with him is not white power, but black power, Kara Force, that's the force that binds to our prime minister and that he has problems with. So maybe the Force is with you but not Kara Force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5108	Thank you very much. After all, you're wrong. There are three replicas. There are three replicas, I hope it won't be about Star Wars. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Maras, you said the Prime Minister's view was finally elected by the defence minister. That's absolutely not true because Mr. Bear who is a candidate for the minister and who was elected last week on Tuesday along with defense associations was at the minister's interview and then they actually held talks and that's the truth. When we look at the rating agencies and the failures of this government, I don't think the rating agency assesses the advances of neither the Croatian state rating nor the government's actions but the reverse. And it was you back there. There's something behind you that's been evaluated as negative. As for the savings, the savings from what the minister said 2.5 billion are safe, they're true, we just don't know how many of those unpaid bills are left behind. That's what we're worried about. We think there's still that much, another 2.5 billion unpaid liabilities you've created, and that's the problem with the state budget. The rules you created for the acquisition of funds were a brake for entrepreneurs, not open doors and incentives. The entrepreneurs said nothing about you in half, as if we didn't have a minister or a ministry. These are the words written to you on the pages of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. When you talk about competences, that the rules are not good and need to be changed immediately to make as many people use certain funds from funds as possible to withdraw as much funds as possible. You will talk about Minister Tolusic's competence at the end of the year, during the next budget, and we will see who is right and who is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5110	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Honorable Representative, Gordan Maras, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5111	I was just saying what the prime minister said that he met the new minister today and that today de facto first met him and saw him. That if he was somewhere with him at the reception is less important. But I say how decisions are made. And as the world sees it, you could see it in the Mudo's grade. So he's not talking about the former government there, he's talking about the instability of the existing government, the existing coalition, it's writing to you there, and if you read it, you'd see it. So not one word was mentioned by the former government but by the existing one. Otherwise... He fixed the rating when she passed the government in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, that trend has not continued. As for Mr Tolusic, I'm not saying anything that man didn't say on television. You played that video last week from the Open. He said that by the beginning of this week, he would change the rules, watch the competitions negotiated with the European Commission and raise the maximum threshold for support. Did he do it? It's not. Can he do that? He can't. Well, how about we tell the man that he knows what he's saying if he's saying something that's absolutely impossible and he didn't do it. And I'm just saying what the facts are. If you're saying anything, at least get in there for a little bit. As for the use and how it worked, I think we also saw from the example of Prime Minister Oreshkovic that he highly appreciates how we used EU funds since he chose to be the closest associate to the person who worked in the previous government as deputy minister. Well, a man wouldn't choose a person who did a bad job. Or is that what you think of your prime minister? Well, you don't think your prime minister is in such a situation as to misjudge people that he took a person from the ministry who was absolutely doing his job badly. Let's make a deal with him first, see if you trust him, then report for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5112	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5113	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed colleague Maras. You said during your presentation that this budget is almost identical to what last year has led me to two conclusions. Number one, so you're going to support this budget because it's exactly what you said it was your government's budget. Or another conclusion is that you won't vote for this budget because you don't want to make the same mistake twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5114	Thank you. The answer will be the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5115	You see, colleague Hrebak, if you'd remembered one more alternative, you probably wouldn't have picked up the replica. I won't support it because it's not 2015. If this budget had been proposed in 2015, then I would have voted for it and voted for it. Since it's 2016, then I can't vote for it. You see what logic is a slippery thing. Oh, no? You had three alternatives, but you didn't remember the third. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5116	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5117	Your Honor, I wonder, I think Minister Maras really believes what he's saying. I don't know if it's even this one, I don't know what the head is saying here. I'm surprised! Here's the question of jobs, economic growth, full of human rights, economic growth. Well, in your term, half the employees in Croatia are employed by state-owned companies. Now you've formed a new one after DUDI to steal even more money than you've ever done before. Second, the gray economy is 30%. Where's that money going? It doesn't flow into the state budget. Thirdly, your minister was recently in Austria, one minister will not say who said this in front of the Austrian business chamber: "All in Croatia are corrupt except the government." Scary! What does this gastronomic diplomacy do to you? What was she doing? How many investments did you bring here? When are we talking about corruption when you're going to open an anti-corruption center and also an asset-original agency to move on? Have you ever lived in a functional state? Do you know what a functional state is? And unfortunately, with such a mental set, we inherited the former state and you only know that, what "joint yourself" etc., "in the trunk of bribes lived comrade Tito" etc. And that's the biggest obstacle to that mental circuit that's buried in the former state that you inherited, that's no progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5118	Thank you. They will answer the distinguished Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5119	You are Mr. Glasnović's everything and psychologist and prophet and historian. Get it all. Oh, no? The world didn't see it. So, give me a lecture, probably people will run to pay you to listen to how convincing you are and how much you know. So the mental circuit, the former state, the functionality, the minister, I don't know if you're aware of that, but I'm not a minister for a month and a half. Is that where you came to? And the former minister says in Kitsbuhel, look out that it was three years ago probably or five years ago. I don't know what you're talking about. So, let's try to connect some of your sentences and thoughts first, and then pick up, and that's all I'm asking you to do. So this is simply impossible to understand what you're saying, let alone answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5120	The next individual debate is that of distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5121	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that I will certainly support the budget, because I hold that within the macro-economic indicators that have been set the budget is good and the budget meets both the criteria of development and social sensitivity. And that's why I'm gonna support the budget. But what I want to say now and in the introduction, too, is that since the budget is brought here half of the third month, and that compares to the 2015 plan would be where and where better if we had the execution in 2015 because then I would believe these discussions that were here all day in the Croatian Parliament were different, some less political and we could then speak sovereignly about how much and how much position either increased or reduced. This is how we speak and compare information that is certainly not done as planned. It would also be good if we knew what it was, just before fellow Maras was saying, what the government budget deficit for 2015 really is at the end. He said it was about nine billion kuna. However, yesterday it seems to me that the Committee for Fiscal Policy, the fiscal rules of the Croatian Parliament, which is already assuming that this deficit for 2015 could be much higher because of certain skeletons to be removed from the health ministry closet. So maybe these optimistic notes we hear these days compared to 2015 won't sound that way if it really is a deficit of the state budget for 2015 at 15 billion, and that's almost 4% of GDP. Therefore, it would be easier for us to discuss this budget if we were to be sure of the budget for the year that is behind us. Another thing I also want to point out, it's a good decision not to change the tax system and tax rates at least this year. I remember exactly 4 years ago when we were bringing the State budget for 2012, at this same time, that day was the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister was talking about a major reform in the tax system when, if you remember, we raised the VAT from 23% to 25% and as a concession to Croatian businessmen, we will reduce the contribution rate to health insurance from 15% to 13%. When after a year it was found to be a complete failure then we returned the health insurance contribution rate from 13% to 15% but did not reduce the value added tax rate. So I welcome the Minister's decision not to touch income tax or value added tax or profit tax for at least a year. So, to stay with a stable tax system, and in that year we see how and how we can make the tax system in Croatia encouraging for the Croatian economy. Not to say that it is very important in this context to observe this relationship that I mentioned during the morning, which is the relationship that speaks about the participation of the state, i.e. the regional and local self-government in public revenues in the Republic of Croatia. So I said, and I'm going to do it again, this year all Croatian citizens with all their budgets, either this state that we're going to adopt these days, or that county or local city and municipality will pay a total of all Croatian citizens 135 billion kuna. As far as we are centralized, the state best tells us that out of the 135 115 billion kuna there is a Croatian prime minister, the Croatian government or the state budget. And if we take into account these 20 billion still remaining that 5 belong to the City of Zagreb, then we see how badly this entire regional and local self-government in Croatia is in fiscal terms or financially poor, weak, unable to fulfil even those obligations that at the moment must be based on the law primarily on local self-government and other laws. Therefore, in that sense I believe it is good that the Minister or Government throughout this year... Analysis and see how and how to go towards further decentralisation of local self-government and public and state administration reforms in the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] I would also say a few words specifically now on the budget, which is that one of the very demanding actions of this government and the projects of this government will be the execution of the revenue side of the state budget in the part in which it relates to the receipts from European funds and that amount is 9.7 billion kuna. If we know that according to this first preliminary implementation of last year's budget, we received from European funds, or 4.7 billion kuna, then it is more than twice this year we expect to withdraw funds from European funds. There were just questions here as to how the government intended it because nothing was done to make it possible to withdraw 9.7 billion kuna, so I'm going to say what I know and what I'm doing through the Ministry of Regional Development, which is that it's in the first order that a base of 1700 projects that can be applied and applied and have a building permit. No government has ever done that before. Neither this government before or she reigned before her where I was. So we haven't created a database that we can react very spotfully to in case of a need for the reallocation of a particular project. So, we can know now, I won't say it in public right now, but we know in which sector, in which segment of the state administration, it's not right to withdraw funds from European funds. And it's possible, based on this base in the frameworks that allow the rules to react very quickly, to realize individual projects and then to stay at a very high level of withdrawal of the fund. The second thing, what's important is the number of phases in the negotiation procedure for all applicators. And at the 7th stage, how many of them have been so far according to the 5-stage procedure. It is also defined as reducing the level of minimum support in the Ministry of Enterprise's portfolio. Be careful, for small and micro entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, the minimum amount of support from the European budget was between the equipment of about 500 thousand kuna and the construction of a million and 500 thousand kuna. If it is known that it is 40% of the total amount then in these frameworks could be found by a small entrepreneur in the Republic of Croatia because there is not so much money to invest even if the European fund helps him. And that threshold is reduced by about 50%, which will immediately allow a very large number of small entrepreneurs to join these programmes. What is important is the plan to remove guarantees for those entrepreneurs who are in a certain way a problem with support. So it wasn't that nothing was done, though. The Ministry of Regional Development has already withdrawn certain actions that will indeed contribute to the faster withdrawal of funds from the state budget. I couldn't even conduct this debate about the state budget without mentioning the Peljeski bridge. So, in the 2016 budget, there is no Peljega bridge which speaks in its own way about the height and preparation of the project by the former government. So this year as seen in the financial plan of the Croatian Roads there is no Pelješki bridge. For next year in the guidelines of the state budget, or in the guidelines of the Croatian Roads financial plan, the position of the island programme 379 million kuna is planned. It's 350 million kuna for the Peljeski Bridge next year. Why? Because the application for the Pelješki bridge is expected to be applied after the construction permits have been completed and after completion and studies are applied somewhere in May and then the competition to perform works somewhere in June. And it is to expect that if everything is okay, if everything is okay, if we don't get the story back with the project, the very important project of building the railway line Long term Selo-Križevci to be able to prepare quality with Pelješki Bridge, we can only expect to see the beginning of the works next year or rebuilding the works on the Pelješa Bridge. And I'm going to say something that's already been said this morning and a little before about subsidising maritime traffic for the Croatian islands. I remember, I ran that resistor for a long time. For a time, 430 million kunas were allocated from the state budget for transport. 430 million kuna in 2008 for Croatian islands. But at the time, the price of oil on the Croatian market was about 30% higher, and in the meantime we introduced blue diesel for shipowners, thus reducing the need for such a high amount. And I'm sure, I end up with that, Mr. President, that Croatian shipmen with this amount planned in the state budget will be able to carry out all those shipping lines they've done so far and have enough money to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5122	Thank you. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5123	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear counterpart Bačić, you mentioned on several occasions the term deficit, so we should really stop manipulating ourselves in the Croatian Assembly because it is inadmissible and irresponsible that we cannot agree on the basic figures. And that is why there is a general government deficit and a central state. And then it's inadmissible to speak exclusively from the position of the central government deficit on one side of the assembly, and in another, in another year of someone else's government, I guess I don't know who's talking about the general government deficit. The government of the Republic of Croatia is not only responsible for managing its own budget, I guess, but also manages our entire country and our counties and municipalities, but also has responsibilities for the responsibilities of local companies. The figures I know unfortunately indicate that local self-government is no more responsible in terms of spending and borrowing than it is in the central state. So the problem is more or less equal at all levels. And that is how it should be approached, order should be introduced at all levels and excessive debt should be stopped. This concerns local self-government, regional, local businesses, public enterprises and all that at the end of the day, we all owe that money. That money will not be paid back by the Germans or the Martians, but we will return both our citizens and our children, I fear our grandchildren too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5124	The honourable representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5125	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Milosevic agrees with you when talking about the deficit then a deficit of a consolidated general state should be understood, which means that it clearly includes both local self-government and public enterprises and all that is included in the general state, in a consolidated general state. However, it is not good for us as parliamentary representatives and I believe that it is divided and the professional public do not know what is the deficit of such a consolidated general state for 2014. Although we discussed in the Parliament a report on the implementation of the budget for that year, although the State Audit Office made us an audit of the state budget, even though the European Commission was manifested, even though we still had an unaccepted and unacceptable report from the CNB a few days ago. So everyone claims that, apart from the government, other than the former government, it is said that the government budget deficit for that year is about 20 billion kuna, which is almost 5.5.6%, except for the government that claims to be 13.5 billion, which is about 3.8%. So it's incomprehensible that we still don't know what the deficit is. So here I hear about this year behind us, the government claims it's about nine billion. In fact, the former ministers claim that there are around 9 billion and the Committee on Fiscal Policy of the Croatian Parliament at the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament says it will be somewhere around 15 billion because the numerous commitments remain at the health ministry's portfolio which will significantly increase the deficit for the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5126	The next replica is that of the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5127	Mr. President of the Parliament. I don't want to go back to the past like you started your debate. I want to look back on this budget and what is waiting for us in the future. But what worries me the most is your statement that we won't touch tax reform and taxes for at least a year. That's what I don't think we're comfortable with. Looks like you're always talking about the increase. I expected that through this budget the tax reform we spoke would be proposed to encourage the economy. We're all saying we have to invest. find the means to attract whether foreign or domestic investors. And because of exactly the kind of tax policy that is now, which doesn't answer to them shrinking. And I think that at least those negotiations that were conducted between the Most and I would say right and left, we always talked about the islanders with tax cuts, i.e.. items burdening the economy. That's why I don't fully agree with you. The second thing you've often mentioned is decentralisation. We're all talking about decentralisation, and we don't see a single point in this budget going towards decentralisation, directing funds towards local and regional self-government because we know that it's the municipalities and cities that represent themselves as generators of faster economic development. And another one. You mentioned the Peles Bridge and all the documents that are ready. The fact is that it happened just when he was president of the Croatian Roads Management Edo Kos and also prepared complete documentation for the Istrian Ipsion from property, legal to construction permits and to the rounding of the entire financial structure. The Pelesian Bridge is in the budget, and the Istrian Ipsilon is not in the sixteenth, nor at the seventeenth, nor at the eighteenth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5128	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5129	Dear colleague Demetlika, in the last term, we have witnessed a 48-fold tax change in the country's basic taxes, income tax, profit tax and value added tax. We've changed it 48 times about how friendly this country is to investors. It is my belief that you, as mayor, agree that it is not good to change laws, especially tax laws every month, two days in the Croatian Parliament, because this sends a message to investors that they simply bypass our country. So I welcomed the announcement by the finance minister that it takes a year to really review the entire tax system, which will then be on one side of the change in entrepreneurship, to make Croatia truly a country desirable for investment. But on the other hand, let's finally focus on decentralisation of the state, so that what happened in the term of office when you IDS and your coalition were in power. And that is to pay for the fate of the local state, the local and regional self-government units, while at the same time voting for the change of the Income Tax Act, which, at the same time, reduces significantly the basic assets to local self-government units, cities and municipalities, as well as in Istria. So you should then perhaps be a little more powerful in your words and stop that change in income tax based on which changes are significantly reduced funds to local self-government. As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, I said that no documentation has been completed yet and it can't be applied yet. But for your information, the former government has inherited a building permit and an environmental impact study and an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basic elements of the bridge. The financing was not resolved until the end Okay, well, there'll probably be more time. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5130	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5131	Here's my esteemed colleague, Bacic, I've answered my word to commend you. Namely, you showed that you were credible because when you were in the opposition you spoke and you advocated decentralisation. And today, when you are a member of the position, you speak the same way, and credibility is something that is very important in politics. I just want to take advantage of you. You really don't belong to the order of the populists and the petty politicians. The IDS did not vote to amend the Income Tax Act, so I told your colleague Boric several times, I tell you. And don't use anything that doesn't correspond to the truth. We voted as members of the coalition and against some other laws than the Law on Agricultural Land, Forests and many other things. But let me get back to decentralisation. We have one political option in this assembly that is constantly talking about reforms. I haven't heard a "d" about decentralisation since MOST. But I'm going back to Mr. Bacic who said a key thing to me. The first mentioned decentralisation, the first measure, followed by a second measure is a reform of public local and regional self-government. Let us first carry out decentralisation, followed by a reform of public, local and regional self-government. If the process is reversed, we'll create a catastrophic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5132	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Sponza, I apologize for saying you voted. I said to me that you were part of the ruling majority which is... Then I apologize if I said the IDS voted, then I apologize. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But I wanted to say that you were part of the ruling majority that took very big money at the end of 2014, that Mr. Mayor Umag knows very well how much the budget has been reduced in certain units of local self-government. And I think it was a major blow to local self-government units. Therefore, I said this in the context that I support the minister's view that for at least a year it does not change any taxes in Croatia because the change in tax and any of these three most important taxes means hitting not only on the obligations, i.e. the opportunities and capacities of the unit of local self-government but has far broader repercussions. And it's good to stand by it once, not to change the day after day neither taxes nor contributions because we are witnesses of what it meant in the past term and before. It was somehow and before the laws changed and taxes changed very often. And that's not good. It's good to step on the ball, think about what happens next and then determine what local self-government will do. The scope and part-time affairs of local self-government should be established. It must have more power than it has today, it must have a larger circle but only then clearly must this fiscal decentralisation come that this local self-government can function. Because today in Croatia, we attack the local self-government that it is incompetent, that the burden is on the economy, and on the other hand we don't give money for those basic jobs that were given them by basic law. When local self-government was established in Croatia, there was no share of public funds of 86% - 14%, there was about 79% - 21%. So, in 23 years of local self-government, we reduced the units of local self-government to 7-8% of total public funds in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5134	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Is it normal for you to account for the country's deficit in 2010 and 2011, and it has been an obligation to apply practically there since 2013, 2014 and to calculate your own 2015 budget according to some national methodology? And you talked about taxes. So, what happened to taxes in the last four years? Let us not forget that there was a zero VAT rate on bread, milk and other supplies. She's how old now? 13%. Let us not forget that VAT rates were 5% for catering services. Let's not forget that the possibility of deducting a pre-tax for business cars has been lifted. And somewhere in the budget, it took about 700, 800 million entrepreneurs at the annual level. Let's not forget that the VAT rate has been raised from 23% to 25%, which is somewhere around 3 billion and 700 million at the annual level. Let's not forget what happened to the profit tax. Let us not forget that the alleged increase in wages through the change of the Income Tax Act went exclusively to the burden of the budget of local self-government units somewhere around a billion and 800 million kunas. And that capital tax. So all of this together when you add up at the annual level is about 7 billion kuna, so when you add the tax money, and that's an unwarranted power increase of 25% and gas, and that's again at an annual level somewhere around 3 billion kuna, that's at an annual level somewhere around 10 billion kuna. Even if it had not been for this tax burden, they would have seen that the deficit of the state budget in 2015 and by that national methodology and by ESA 2010 is far greater than the deficit of the national budget in 2011. Let's not just say what the result is at the end, let's look at what we've stepped up the profit side with, and then we'll pretend as important as we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5136	Thank you. The next answer will be given by the esteemed representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5137	I agree with my colleague Shuker, namely when he's responsible for showing someone how well he manages public finances then he says the deficit in 2011 was over 20 billion kuna, which you said yourself, and that's based on ESA statistics, but when we talk about the 2014 deficit, then we're talking about a national methodology. And then, however, if we put both of them in the same level, that deficit would be approximately the same in percentages with this deficit being higher in absolute terms because the revenues and expenditures were increased in the meantime in the state budget. Apparently they're... When you talk about increasing VAT tax rates where it is increased by 2% of the total tax rate I would remind you that in the meantime that, and let's not forget, the prices of all energy in Croatia have increased, 25% is the electricity price increase, 30% of gas prices etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] So when we talk about the measures that went towards the consolidation of the state budget and the consolidation of public enterprises, it was not the result of reforms but was exclusively the result of the increase on the one hand of the tax press and on the other hand the price of services in the public sector. And I said it was primarily the price of increasing electricity, gas, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5138	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5139	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking today about the 2016 Budget in the Croatian Assembly. We can talk about it in a number of ways. We can speak politically, politically, professionally, we can compare with previous budgets, we have more ways. In my review of 10 minutes, I will try to unite more of these ways because I listened to today's exposure on behalf of the SDP club and concluded not a shred of self-critics, not a shred of reference to what was left to the new government because we only heard the superlatives. Everything is, everything is the best, why have we changed such a power in the first place? How did the people manage to mistake and change that perfect power and perfect budgets? Because for four years, we've been listening, talking about Plan 21, about the investment cycle, about great social sensitivity, about GDP growth, and the results have been different. When we asked them about Plan 21, they said it was something figurative, just to have it, so we could get the voters to vote. An investment cycle? So let's remember, I personally remember only one presentation at the government when they said in 2012 an investment cycle almost 2 billion in energy, in highways, roads, Croatian waters, forests, etc. That's how much everyone has to do. It all fell apart in the same year, a complete debacle. About social sensitivity? Socially sensitive is the government or government that has 100 thousand people coming out of the country to other countries to solve their family problems, their social status. About GDP growth? We've been listening to that, too. Three years down, three quarters of growth to conclude that at the end of 2015 we are at the level of 2011 with the total GDP. That we're at the starting point. Let's at least be at the same starting point. Well, the bottom line is we must have lost four years, lost. And not a word about public debt. At the end of 2011, the public debt amounted to 154 billion. Last year I'm thinking at the end of 285 billion. I kept asking you gentlemen where you spent at least 100 billion public debt, that's 50 Peljeka bridges, three times the highways that were built. Can you tell us where you spent it? Not a word of it. Where's your public debt management strategy? Not a word of it. It's this perfect power. And now we come, the new government, the new prime minister proposes a budget. And he says clear messages nicely. We want to cut costs, the cost of the state, the administration. We want to increase the absorption of the European Union funds, that's what we belong to knowledge, with the ability to do so. We'll get caught fighting this growing public debt because it's a chance to maybe make some money, if we get a better rating, if we get better conditions. We want to ensure this minimal growth that we have of GDP to last, that it doesn't happen in 2011 when you have two quarters positive and then the revolution of laws, tax changes and we sink again. To fight it for three years. We want to reduce the deficit very clearly at the state budget level, 5 billion at the general state level of 3.3 billion. We want to effectively manage state property. So what are we listening to? Why is the SDP against these goals? What's wrong with them? Well, I can only conclude that it bothers them because they were doing everything the opposite of what the Prime Minister has stated and what this state budget suggests. They thought it was normal because the people wouldn't punish it. But the elections came and that perfection the people punished. He sent them into opposition, and today we listen, again I say, we were perfect, the people didn't understand us. Why is the SDP opposed to cost cuts, material expenditures for 260 million kuna? I can only conclude that the government has seen it as hedonism, as a pleasure. It's only now that there are some teams, dishes, sweets, cakes, wine. It was everything. We go on a trip, we all travel beautifully around the world, someone in Las Vegas, someone in Balla. They say one minister had to be sent there to Bala because without him, the rally wouldn't have made sense. Then we hear that someone had to go to Norway, that someone had to go to another country. Well, I mean, it's not a small cost, hundreds of thousands of kuna, daily 8 days 3,000 euros. Can we make progress in that space? Well, I believe that without any great indignation, we can say some rights other than to limit ourselves all in our own desires and ambitions. He's doing 20 million kunas less in the Department of Social Welfare division, we've been hearing today that this government is not sensitive to 20 million kunas. So what did we have there? Here's an example. We had a professional employee who had a job to keep a dog for Minister Opačić. To train him and socialize him like they said. Can we cut that cost? I think we can because it's not the Ministry's job. There are dog training centers, so let's get those dogs trained there. Is that where we had the injustice? There was a bear dog in Pula who barked too much, and then the court convicted him. So we haven't been able to reach one level of equality here either. But they say it was a very social government and she didn't even notice that 100,000 people came out of the country. Well, I mean, I mean, it's awful. Investment cycle, so I was already talking, I think. Of all the investments, nothing. We left the Zagreb airport which is thanked to God at the end let the bridge Ciovo be completed with construction documentation. And that's the only thing that's been going on in the last few years. We've heard about dozens of hydropower plants to build. Them power plants, the big stories, we get the electricity, we get the gas, everything needs to be picked up alive to do something. They didn't do anything. Now, we say, we're going to cut the deficit from 12.5 billion to 9 billion and 120 million. They say we're against it, they're against it. We want to invest in the railroad to finally solve that railroad, state ports, ports of county importance, roads, to solve, to put those bridges together. They say we're against it. Why? So we clearly show it through the department's division. The Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, the start of the irrigation system, 100 million kuna, so that's important to us. So let's look at the amount, the Ministry of Agriculture has about 300 million kunas in the division. The Regional Development Ministry 762 last year, 762 million kuna, this year 916 million kuna. And when we look at the realization, I was surprised recently on the parliamentary board, 460 million of these 760 were spent in 2015. How did they reduce the deficit? Do you realize how they reduced the deficit? They didn't do anything. They didn't have a situation you could pay for. And let's get it ready, and we've saved the state. I hope we don't do such things because we have infrastructure needs, it creates new values. But here I'm saying, that perfection just doesn't fit on this new budget and they decided it's against and they still said it's as bad as it was theirs and they're the same. But I'm saying, I want the stability of this system, the stability of finance. I hope that as parliamentary representatives we will be at our height because it is known that we have temporary funding until 31.3., this state needs a financial document to move on. And I don't understand certain MPs who do, I say approach each and every one of their own personal interests and think here if it isn't my amendment, if it isn't this we don't need anything. I don't understand that. We need financial stability. We can make it happen, we need changes in the public administration as announced, but this is the starting point. The laws will come out of this. Savings. I claim they can be bigger. That's what the Prime Minister said today. I can. It will show time where money was spent, in what way, with what procedures. And I'm going to go back to him who says I'm asking for a little time, and I'm going to show you the result. I trust a man, I think he knows what he wants, and it's up to us to help him and to really turn this in a completely different direction regardless of what the opposition says that they were perfect, and that people replaced them precisely because of that perfection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5140	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused a series of replicas. The first one is Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5141	Comrade Boric, if you were not here, you should be made up. But I don't know how you dared to go back to the distant past in 2012. Where did you get the right to dare to discuss the four years of the term of office of the last government? Well, people only managed four quarters, five come on. They are not responsible for those first 3 years of their mandate because they have been getting a little warm, learning, informing what the state is, how it is managed, how it is managed, how it is employed on the political line, etc. Of course, but they're kidding aside. Unfortunately, at the beginning of 2016, we are not in 2011. We lost about 2% of GDP compared to then. Secondly, the damage isn't just 100 billion new public debt. The damage is about 100 billion kunas that Croatian citizens lost to the value of their property directly. So in four years count yourself gentlemen we all lost together except that we're more in charge of 100 billion kunas in very rough. And about missed opportunities, about being better, faster, stronger, smarter than some others about not even talking. And how did the former government think and understand reforms? Well, it's best said today by Mr. Milanovic. So, Mr Milanovic said this morning that the reform had been sent to the HZ system on the road or retired. That's how the former government understood what reforms were. So, don't restructure the railroad, not restructure it in a way, everyone can fire people. Well, that's not the problem. Everyone knows that. All you have to do is secure the money for the severances. I won't be rude to think of people who think that restructuring is something, anything public or private system fire people. No, I don't. But that proves that he was thinking about the former prime minister and why we're here today. Why is Gredell in bankruptcy today? Thank God we seemed to be able to save TLM. And I hope that the new government will also save these other societies that are actually of industrial importance to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5142	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5143	Thank you very much. My fellow Milosevic, they are telling us here today that they are better at everything and that they are all something faster. Let's do some history, let's see what it says. They say we're getting a state budget late, this government is making a state budget late, and that's something important to them. Let's see what happened in 2011. Formed Government 23.12.2011, budget adopted 24.2.2012. Two months. And this government formed 22.1. And it will be 21.3. I hope the state budget is passed. Two months. They say but the election was there at 11 months. There. That's how you explain it. So it took them two months. For six months, they've been stacking up the structure of the government to shift everything alive to the cleaning lady, but they've been better said. I'm listening here to a lecture from the minister who left, and I'm sorry he left, which in 2014 had 600 million at his disposal as the minister of entrepreneurship and realized 300. It's the weakest success of a minister in history to realize 50% of your assets that the state has given you. And then you give lessons to everyone, the election year comes, he spins some wheel there some commercial and spends two million and 100 thousand kuna on it. That's $400,000 from the state budget. He puts himself as important and he advertises for a year and he says that's success, that's success, that's terrible good. So far, none of the 10 governments of the Republic of Croatia have dared to do so. But without a problem, they teach us what we need and what we don't need. We have obtained the status of the European Commission. Out of 6 assignments 5, we got a unit, the former government. Five units. And we say no matter what we listen to them, what we listen to when we can still be bad disciples. I don't think so. Either we're gonna be good students and do something for this people or we're gonna have to say we split up in this House and at government level. Because I'm saying we can't go on like this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5144	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5145	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Boric, I was under the impression that we were discussing a draft budget for 2016. But here's thank you for spending 10 minutes of our lives telling us about your view for the last four years and what we think of this side of the assembly, we say that, you all know, or you know better than we do. You said in the introduction to your discussion that you would try to combine the view of the budget through a professional, political and similar part. But I'd say you did it purely politically, so I don't say demagogue. You say the cost of the administration fucks it up. You say you are cutting costs that were inappropriate, which were unnecessary, which only denied the well-being of Croatian citizens, I suppose. You're saying that you're going to be a social government, to recognize problems, so I'd like you to explain to me how a social government can guarantee a minimum fee, or an amount intended for it from 626 million to 533. Is that an indication of how socially sensitive you are to our citizens who are not in the best financial condition? Can you explain to me why the scholarship of students is being fucked, the development of higher education, investment in scientific and research activities, the Croatian qualification framework, technical culture, the programme of improving student standards, investment in universities in general etc., etc. Is that an indication of one responsible government? Well, I'd like to find out if my dear colleague didn't. I guess that's the cost of that administration you're talking about. And you're talking about seriousness, and here's how many months we've been through, today we've got, or today we've presented a candidate for the Secretary of Defense. Only now! You haven't even been able to frame the ministers yet, let alone something else. And you're talking about seriousness?- I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5146	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5147	Comrade Hajdukovic, this may, as you just said, enter under that ad selling lies, balvanas and pranks. Because I guess the finance minister consulted some kind of document when he made some kind of decision. And that social compensation you're talking about. Because execution means it was so bad if I wasn't wrong in 2015 that the same amount was left for 2016. And now that bothers you. And you say that was great and that this was a disaster. So get yourself together there on this side. I've been listening to you all day. Three things you found in the budget, line transportation and social benefits and transportation of students. If that's the only problem with this state budget, we don't have any problem. What's the difference between you and me? You've had in four years four state budgets and five rebalances. So we talked nine times about your government's financial document, nine times. Do we have a right to that? I guess we do. If there's a need, we'll probably have to do something, but let us have our own vision, our goal, and some kind of mission to do something. Or we'll listen to what we're supposed to do now because you're four years old. And it might best be all of your discussions, as one of your SDP colleagues says for one of your former ministers says, "He needs to be heard, boycotted and rerouted." Maybe it would be really best today because you don't know what you're talking about, my dear, because the people sent you into opposition to learn something, and you're going to fall again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5148	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Says counterpart Boric, 100 billion kuna in 4 years, and a total of 300 billion kuna, about 300 billion kuna is due. For 100 billion, you've shown 50 pelican bridges, and for 300 billion kunas, 150 bridges of sand. That's why we, as a MOST to each other, say this to you and to you that we are in collaboration with both of them that this government is not easy or easy because of these debts that have been made. And the debts are huge. And that's why it's an extraordinary honor for me to be involved in this whole thing in a way that we all try and all of us on the one hand and the other to make this right. Because it's amazing to hear in four years the debt of 100 billion kuna. How many kindergartens is it when it's 50 pebbly bridges? How many schools is that? How many shows is that for students who are now being negotiated here to be reduced? After the Homeland War, the state owed 4.5 billion kuna. So where's that money, where's it gone? Where did that go, who took it? Well, everyone who's been in power means they mismanaged. And that's why this government needs to be backed up in reforms, but this is our last chance obviously. Because it's amazing to me that in 4 years 100 billion kuna debt, and that the areas of special state concern have been abolished. So where's the money? There has been an increase in the number of unemployed, absolutely in an incredible situation this government is in, and I truly believe that all together with one and the other colleagues must help this government to go to work, start to reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5150	Thank you, MP Boric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5151	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you. This government needs support and I hope that support will be clearly demonstrated. Because what happened, you were now talking about abolishing PPDS, about mountain-mounted areas. We had one debate at the end of 2014, the Regional Development Act. And we say it loudly, please, we put the amendments, don't take away the money from the assisted areas because the name itself tells them that they need to be helped. And they say no, we'll take it. 50 million Gorski kotar, each local self-government of smaller budgets several hundred thousand kunas of higher budgets over several million. And they say that's our policy. And we warn them, don't do that. It comes in 2015. Here's what they say. Now we're going to be gallant in the campaign, and we're going to give something. We're going to change the Law of the Roads and we're going to get something back, we're going to create some kind of fund where everyone's involved. And let's look at the execution, a 150 million kuna fund in which all local self-governments are paying for the realisation in 2015 of 500 thousand kuna. What have you been doing all year, gentlemen? That's the question. If we're gonna do the same thing then this doesn't make sense. I believe in the new Regional Development Minister who's been in that ministry all day. The former minister was there on his own time because he was the Deputy Prime Minister. And that's how it worked. But we disagree, and it is up to us to make a clear message through this budget the starting point for the next time. I think we're all in the ruling coalition enough to be critical enough that we can react if we see something going wrong. But we're not going to tell stories, we're going to decentralize something, so we're going to centralised even more as it has happened in the past four years. Get out before elections and yell Croatia, Croatia. I mean, so much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5152	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5153	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Boric, agrees fully with your debate, because today, just from a representative of Milanovic, we have heard such nebuloses that man simply cannot believe. And unfortunately, it is still supported by some media, he says that he taught a lesson here to us individuals and that at the same time in his debate he said everything that was incorrect. Well, I'll just remind you of some details. Well, it was this government that took the responsibility that the previous government had to take because the European Commission had ordered it to cut its deficit below 3%. They have done nothing in their four-year term and, behold, by coming here, the European Commission must do so by this government. Not to mention the loved ones you've done in all positions, not to mention hundreds of millions or 100 billion debts that you've made in your four years. I don't want to talk about administrations in public enterprises. That's all the facts, gentlemen. Croatian highways in 4 years have been replaced by 4 administrations. Imagine, four administrations without making a single investment in four years at the same time. And I'll remind you only at HDZ time, so we had a budget at HAC 5 billion a year and in Croatian roads 2.5 billion, no administration has changed. And you're changing now in four years four administrations and you don't have any investments. And you're giving us a lesson today. What are you talking about? This is exactly what you need to worry about. And your representative, as is called Milanovic, is brainwashing us today, imagine with lies and to justify himself. But you know what luck is? Which she as president of your party is saying last time. And it's in this House because it's probably not going to be party president anymore, so that's how it's gonna be on individuals here and telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5154	The honourable representative Josip Boric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5155	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucic, I may not agree with this part of yours at the end. I might disagree because if they don't have a better one than the one who lost five times to HDZ, then they deserve it, and we support it. And I'm more concerned about what other policy it is that we or those they have put into Croatian society have now come among them. And now you have a conflict of what I said today to the plant and animal world, and we attend it daily and today we listen to moral lessons about how a statesman should behave. A statesman who three days before the entry of the Republic of Croatia has passed a shameful law that we have faced with the whole of the European Union. And you teach us a lesson and they say we're the perfection of the world. They are the ones who take every moral value for themselves, prepare it, and no one can touch it except them. They are the Bundesliga because they have managed to find three activities in the budget today that they do not want and that is their budget debate. And we support that because we believe that this budget is good and that their differences within them are resolved, so if they can fall apart, but we can finally start to talk to the arguments, to be convincing and to continue to lead this country in the right direction. Because I'm saying ending up like the sixth in Chad and Mauritania as the most incompetent government in the world isn't something we'd want for this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5156	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Sabine Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5157	Mr. Boric, you told a lie again, hoping that 100 times a repeated lie would become true. So official data from the State Statistics Office which is worth at least as much as those unnamed,... The relevant estimates say that, for example, between 2011 and 2013, 42,000 275 people have moved out of Croatia and that in 10 years, 100,000 people you are talking about have moved out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2013, for example, 15262 people moved out of Croatia, half of whom went to Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps, but it is hard to believe that they did it for economic reasons. The departure of young educated people is a reality for every new member of the European Union. The crisis probably promotes that departure. And that's enough to worry about any government, but it's so unnecessary instead of official statistics to talk about this kind of flat-rate assessment and evaluation. And secondly, I don't know if you're actually listening to your ministers when you're talking about earrings in ministries and companies that said at the first session of the government that the government was actually working, our government was working with 30% capacity and doing a solid job. And as far as the sentence here is concerned, that the Prime Minister, or Mr Milanovic, for the last time performed in this House as SDP President, can only tell you, just hope for it, you will see him for a long time in the Croatian Parliament, gather arguments and practice replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5158	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5159	Kolice Glasovac said you were Prime Minister Milanovic, he is no longer prime minister, he is one to 151 parliamentary MP and I am glad that he is a parliamentary representative. And let him sit here and say whatever he wants because that's his job. When you talk about lies, you say one saying that Communism on a lie has arisen, survived and disappeared. And he'll disappear. It was said by Cardinal Stepinac. We've been present here for four years with this kind of politics, lies, inventions, cheating on us to look good. And it was not good in the end; it was wrong for you, unlike what you expected, but the people will not be deceived. I always say there is one critical mass that will bring about changes when necessary at local, regional or national level. The people are fooled by the sun. And that's why I'm fascinated by your insistence on the perfection that you present to us here today and the people have replaced you. Well, it's not the people's fault, is it? You say 90 grand, so we're saying the wrong numbers, that the State Statistics Office is something else. [[I'm begging you, let's not throw ourselves out of the bench.]] Well, it's a personal miracle to me, that State Statistics Office keeps worrying me. A deputy minister came to us, a former assistant minister is otherwise a member of the SDP. And when that one came, all the statistics flew into the sky. I won't doubt them, it's still a state body. But I do have the right to say that it's not exactly what it says. Milanovic himself said statistics that's our dick, that you want that painting. So all your stories don't hold water today. If Germany, one orderly state says 90,000 Croats came to them, so I trust them, and you can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5160	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of distinguished representatives of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5161	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this budget is a ripe demonstration of the promises in the pre-election campaign and the moment in a key strategic document such as the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia when these promises need to be implemented, or when they need to be shown in figures. Let's remember the election campaign. The campaign's focus on the Patriot coalition's election campaign was based on two items. The first was the most innovative policy and the second key point of the campaign was young, retaining young people in the Republic of Croatia and creating all the preconditions for these young people in the Republic of Croatia to remain. However, now that we get a state budget like this, or a proposal for a state budget, then we see that actually the most cut items and that the greatest burden of budget cuts, the moment where the government is, of course, having to balance the income and expenditure side, everything is actually breaking down to, more or less, the socially endangered citizens of young people. I have already mentioned in one of the replicas in the previous hours, so the funds are being reduced to encourage active youth employment measures. The biggest loser, one of the biggest losers, is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And this is a very clear indication that science, knowledge, education are not the professional priorities of this government. Unfortunately not. Our Government also faced similar problems, challenges, the European Commission's demands, from the end of 2011 to 2015, where they had to simply regulate certain things on the expenditure side, but it was very much taken into account that there was no breach of one standard when we talk about education. So in 2014, the execution of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, i.e. its budget, was 12.1 billion. In 2015, 1.8 billion more and 13.9 billion were planned. And now, after this upcoming trend, unfortunately, we come to the fact that for 2016, the Ministry's budget is planned to be reduced by 159 million kuna. Of these 159 million kunas, the largest item is the reduction in the subsidisation of the inter-urban transportation of pupils. I have something to say about it regardless of the government's amendment. We have heard here today often in discussions that since September 1st will go with certain social censorships, so that the most endangered children coming from the most socially endangered families will actually have as some kind of subsidies. But that rich subsidies don't need them, maybe they don't need them. I agree with that, too. But do you know that right now, at this point, there are two categories of subsidisation of transportation between high school students. The first is 75 % co-financing for all students, and the second is completely free transport and 100% funding for students, members of households that are users guaranteed minimum fees or rights to maintain the basis of the Social Care Act. So I don't understand why it is promised to introduce something that has already existed in these measures since September, or what the ministry is already doing. In practice, it looks like this, so. Very often, maps of interurban transport are priced from place to place b when a child travels to a high school that is very often located in city centers. Very often, these tickets reach a price of 1,000 kuna. In that case, the state has so far taken over 750 kunas to pay for that transport. And it is no relief for parents to say that since April 1st or now since September 1st, 750 countries will not pay more than 500 kuna. So each parent for each child with this co-financing reduction, or a share from 75 to 50%, would have to additionally allocate 250 kunas for co-financing, because the burden of this on themselves will be very difficult to take over units of local or regional self-government because they did not do so today either. Not because they don't want to, but because they're rare and they can afford it, given the strength of their budgets. This budget also reduces resources for co-financing of textbooks by 20%. So, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports co-finances textbooks, i.e. there are certain rights to free textbooks for children killed, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders, children of Croatian wartime wartime people, children of family members whose regular income per family member is less than the amount of censors, for children members of the Roma national minority. So these are all endangered categories. It was not wise to propose a reduction in subsidies for these children for textbooks through this budget at all because textbooks and transportation are the highest cost of education for each child. And these are the main obstacles to the right to education and to the availability of education for every child regardless of any property status, the social status of their parents. Furthermore, the total funds for universities are also reduced, by a third the material expenditures of the university are cut. Unfortunately, the University of Zadar has passed there, with its resources reduced by as much as 40 million kuna. When we look at other universities that are not stationed in Zagreb, then we can see that the main thing is to save or take smaller universities, which in no way contributes to the politic development of higher education and science in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the funds for the licensing of the director are reduced by 50%. This is not exactly in line with the government's proposal we had to discuss the moment we voted in favour of ministers, and it is also a legal obligation to carry out the licensing of directors by December 2016. I don't know how you intend to do this because you needed to increase these funds, not reduce them to successfully implement the legal obligation. Capital investment in primary education is reduced by 7.4 million, funds to prevent school dependence, the item of extracurricular technical culture programmes in primary and secondary schools is shut down, incentives to organisations for extra-institutional education and education are reduced. In short, it's not good. A country that renounces investment in education, a country that saves on education gives up its future. I hope it is not done consciously because he said an Italian writer that a country that destroys its education never does so just for money because it lacks funds, no, a country that destroys education is much under the rule of those who fear the spread of education because the uneducated people are more easily manipulated. I hope this isn't a meaningful, systematic policy. That's what we'll hope to see in the coming months.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5162	Thank you very much. We're fortunate to only have one replica, it's a distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5163	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I know we're tired, but I still have something to add. Science and education has been debated so much today that we're all a little tired of it, and now I'm just going to say one thing. I'm not a politician or that's what I want to be, but the fact that the former Secretary of the Navy has returned 100 million or more correctly to the budget is 90 million kuna at the time while the system has bled talking to itself. I don't have to say anything more than that. And now I'm going to use this one more minute to add one sentence. By following these discussions in the Parliament, and for the first time in the Parliament, I have the impression that it's like that story when I go to lunch with my friend, then I'll order everything from the appetizer to the main deluxe dish, and when I pay for it, then I'll only stay in the area. I get the feeling that that's how it's done when the opposite side's budget is bombed. Well, let them pay now. That's my impression. Here's another 50 seconds to answer one question that's being pushed through social networks, and that's how that person who defends science so much, lives for science and somehow feels like a lawyer of that science in this House is going to vote for this budget? I'll answer to the team that I've expressed my dissatisfaction with the budget, my skepticism where I should have been. I have spoken to my coalition partners and through this dialogue we have come to a solution that is satisfactory. We didn't even have to agree on a transport solution that was resolved unanimously without any obstacles. We also found a solution to how to finance additional scientific research projects in a way that we all give up something. And now I can say that my conscience is pure. Because at this point, it's the best we can have. The budget is not ideal but the ratio between what we can and we want the best possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5164	Thank you. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5165	I will never tire of the debate on education, and I do not consider myself to be any politician but a person who is truly truly fighting for this system and I will fight as long as I have the opportunity, regardless of what is here in the Croatian Parliament or outside of it. Secondly, the student transport problem has not been solved. You didn't take them now, you'll take them on September 1st. I'm asking you to remember that and keep it in mind. It's not solved. And third, they're amazing double standards. When you were on the Education Committee, Mrs. Rusak was not a member of that committee, but I remember very well when some members of today's ruling parties and then the opposition asked for more resources for science, now you're the same when we're proposing a conclusion on the board that we can't be satisfied with these means, that we're looking for an increase in funds that doesn't matter anymore, they're giving up, they forgot what they stood for. They're called double standards. While you're in opposition, you get to change your ways and pretend like nothing's going on, and the damage happens. And you can't fool the Croatian public, it's all clear to everyone. The student transport hasn't been solved. Just dear parents, you should tell them, we won't take it from you from April 1st, we'll take it from you from September 1st.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5166	Thank you. The next debate is that distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5167	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk to most of my discussions today about the budget, actually, about budgetary policy. When we talk about the budget in recent years, then we define two crisis areas or two main objectives, which is financial stabilisation, i.e. the reduction of deficits and public debt generated in the largest volume of government budget deficits and balance of payments deficits. In particular, this comes to terms now that we are in a system of excessive deficits and economic imbalances. As a member of the European Union, I must have the greatest impact on these two segments. However, the state budgets in these years have tried to solve these two crisis areas in a way that either increases revenues in a way that reduces or cuts certain items on the spending side and then we do so in the plan, or when we adopt a budget, then we have problems in realisation. And that's because these two areas are both financial destabilisation and high public debt consequences and we're not removing their causes. The cause should be sought in the fact that we have insufficient economic activity and low employment. While the European Union countries have declared employment at over 70% of the active population, we are slightly above 50% and that is the problem. We most often discuss high unemployment and our biggest problem is low employment. And the structure of people who are unemployed does not meet the needs of today's economy both Croatian and global. And then where should we look for solutions? Decisions should be sought in the restructuring of the economic base, i.e. investment in the real sector and investment will then bring new jobs. When we talk about the state budget and we think that that's how we can solve these two problems, then we get into problems, and this budget is no different than before. Salaries, pensions, health care, interest and social benefits actually go over 80% of total expenditures on the spending side. And if we won't solve it in a way that removes the causes of low economic activity or low economic growth, we'll be able to cut maybe another year, two expenses on the spending side, and we won't be able to put together a budget anymore, let alone implement it. That's why it's necessary, I say solving these causes, the deficit reduction will then come in itself. We will be able to increase some of the increased revenues not in the same way as we planned last year and this year to increase through consumption about 3 billion this year's tax revenues, but then we will be in a situation that we will eventually be able to use some of that tax revenue in a way that reduces the tax press for the economy and citizens. In the long term, we have had low economic growth and by structure inadequate economic growth. For 7 years we have a decline and in the structure when years of growth they were based on investments in infrastructure which, having a long-term return of funds and fully based on loans and also citizens were actually in debt during that period and consumption was also alimated by loans. And now we have a problem not only of high-indebted states, high-indebted economies, but of high-indebted citizens. And on what should recovery be based? Investments in the private sector, so in the real sector. Because I estimate that investment in the private sector is the most profitable because it is accessible with the highest responsibility and they ensure real employment growth. In promoting exports, exactly the economic growth we had last year and on which we are planning this year is based precisely on increased exports. And here I see the great role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which would primarily have to finance projects that will be monitored by EU funds and overall monitoring of exports and credit and through guarantees. And it's HBOR in recent years very efficiently worked and it should be increased. And that's why I think we should consider why only 53 million kunas should be allocated to HBOR because we are increasingly in need of guarantees from our exporters even more than loans themselves. That's why we should also ensure that there is a further reduction or elimination of certain tax payments, they are still high, they amount to several billion kunas and we haven't heard at this point whether there is a Government, we've only heard that they won't raise taxes but we don't know if they're going to cut them. It is also necessary to raise the level of expertise of the state administration. We see this not only through the implementation of the budget, it is best seen through the State Audit Office reports where we still have the most observations on purely professional, accounting matters. And in time, today's time of information technology, we actually need to abandon that mentality of the state administration that has the mentality of the counter staff. It must be available in all possible ways to its users. With short-term measures, I think more courageous procedures should be done in the system of pension and insurance and health care because they generate long-term problems in the state budget. About 40% of resources from other sources are needed to cover pension and health insurance costs. But that's why the population needs to be prepared. So, in advance, we need to say what period we're going to extend the service, possibly extend the internship. What will be the destimulation of early retirement, which services will need to be paid extra. All this should be discussed and discussed in a manner appropriate to the financial situation of our families. When we talk about the guidelines for this budget, we have two guidelines, one from July last year, one from this year, and now it's hard to say on the basis of which direction the budget is based. But it doesn't seem to be different from the current budgetary policies. A new policy, I have already said this in one replica, is not shown to us either through the Government's programme and we expect that rather if the Prime Minister said that you have sent national reforms towards the European Commission that they will be published and that we too will find out in which direction these reforms will go. And just these short minutes and a half to say. The State budget is an instrument for redistributing part of the social product for general and social needs. For citizens, the most important are the parts that stand out for education, health care and social protection. And in this segment, we are also planning the biggest reductions and I think it is not good, that when it comes to, when planning to reduce certain users in the state budget should take care of priorities, and the priority of Croatia is certainly education, it is certainly good health care and it is certainly good social protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5168	Thank you. The next debate is that of distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5169	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. That's exactly where my colleague Zgrebec ended up. I'll start with my debate. Why is there a state and during the year its most important document budget? Exactly to protect her own citizens. You see, when Rome attacked hordes, then it was a Roman citizen, of course, it was only a privilege for some to be calm, so he said what to fear was a civil novel. I'm a Roman citizen. Well, according to that principle, the government has to think about protecting citizens from their own state because that's the point of every country at all. It is necessary to show patriotism in action, not by falsifying history. And now if we go into the budget, I'd give him the title, and where are the ministers of reform? Where are these reforms that have been talked about and that we expected to see at least in the budget? So, after the budget, there will be an economic programme that will then be presented to the European Commission. I think it needs more, so already when I mention both the EU and the European Commission need more courage out there and more humility at home. And that humility is manifested not only in the way and way, but in the way that the government refers to its own citizens. And what can we see? So all the power the government has directed, or directed towards those weakest students, high school students, their parents, defenders, socially endangered citizens. What are the goals of fiscal policy itself, we see that the Government will say this a little later on, on which it is precisely based on achieving revenue. However, what I particularly want to point out is that there is no government, I would say neither in Europe nor beyond, nor in us who did not represent their budget as the one that is developmental and social. And social, yes. However, this budget is neither developmental nor social, and at least reformal. So, hitting on the weakest ones, and all of their imagination, incomes expect and lay in the bare hope, so here to show your force immediately by cutting, and in income therefore the mere and naked hope without reform procedures. Because if they were reform procedures, if they could and could be seen in the budget themselves, then they would really have made up the cost of it, but it would have been multiple and beneficial and incomes from it. However, it was absolutely missing. However, as we talk about the reforms that may later be seen or that will be shown in this government's economic programme, I would like to point out, even fellow Shuker said something about it. I don't think there's any reform and they won't even have a good idea if the state administration isn't set up on, in principle, how much work and getting paid for it, or no matter how someone came to the public administration, that it shouldn't be asked, and that the basic motive for staying and progress in public administration is precisely the result of the work. These are the documents the government already has, they are made and let's be honest that no one has done it. And he didn't take the first step in that sense. There are often talk of reducing units of local self-government either municipalities, cities, cutting-off counties or speaking of a flat-rate state administration has a lot to offer. There's a lot of it in some segment somewhere, in some small one. But that's not a question, the question is how many employees and tenants work. The question is that this work must be measurable. If there are long ago framework criteria for the work of judges and judges to solve a number of cases, a certain amount and a certain weight of cases, so when judges are measured their work, then I don't see why the state administration doesn't measure the work. It's not just pay grade, it's about getting into pay grade, getting to pay grade, and then engines working, and the rest of them tripping. And it's not true, of course, that it's not easy to measure this work, but it's not true that only the work of a trackworker can be measured. Therefore, it will not be unless you come up with reforms, and there will be no one to implement them because people will not be motivated. So, the basic principle is don't look at who it is and how it came to public administration, but how it's going to go or how it's going to stay and progress. And that will be just objective criteria, not the grades that we've had so far and that don't serve anything, that are described and where no one wants to blame anyone if they want to eliminate someone gives him a negative assessment. Therefore, such criteria and such criteria must be maximumly objective. Today, there have also been a lot of speeches about the rating of this agency which rated Croatia's credit rating but for the first time worries that it has not rated the Croatian government from these economic aspects. Because still, in terms of its economic policy, which is also perfectly normal because there is not so much, the government couldn't have shown anything in this sense until then, but it concerns this very political context and the political climate in Croatia. But not only is one such agency talking about it for the first time but it is a serious obstacle and everything else because all the reforms that are planned to do or at least the most important ones cannot be implemented if the government is not stable, if there is no courage and determination. And the basic assumption is the stability of the government. This does not mean eliminating talks especially if it is a coalition government. We've experienced it, too. Therefore, conversations but also one instability, one delay in any way to deal with problems are a serious problem. So what does the government plan from the total planned revenues of 114.9 billion? A colleague named Zgrebec has already talked about it, so more than 3 billion are planned in the name of the tax. 96.5% more than EU aid, hence withdrawing funds from the EU or 9.7 billion. But how is that possible? To do that, you have to have an even more qualified management ready to do it. So in this way it looks like I'm going to repeat you showed your strength and power at the weakest and what you should have shown what you know, you can and what your duty is to do is based on one optimism, on one hope. So we cut short to the poor, and this if God gives, yes, if nothing, we still have the rebalancing left, and we're going to cut further. But is that a solution? All the reforms that we have talked about and which are also the Patriot coalition that she was talking about, we have seen only the goals that we want to achieve, but we have not heard any measure concrete or long-term or short-term how this will be achieved. My colleagues before me had already talked about how worrying it was to cut such amounts for education. Education is really an investment, and you really think about it because we cut the branch and the smallest and weakest one we sit on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5170	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas again. First, she's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5171	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian people have endured silences in prayer for these four years, although much was not clear to them, although he did not need much of what was done to him. Croatia's government our new one is ready to deal with all the problems and they will show it in their work, in their mandate. But I don't understand that Roman lesson of yours about a people who have the right to defend themselves against a bad government. Didn't we in our past, last year in Vukovar, fight against the violent introduction of an anti-constitutional Cyrillic? We also fought against the bad decisions of one government, and in the end we proved that it was a bad decision, so many of us were killed by the same government, the people were killed, the defenders were killed. So I don't understand this let the people get caught up in the fight against that bad government that's doing bad work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5172	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5173	My dear colleague did not listen to me or understand me but I will answer you in this area where you say that the entire Croatian people prayed in silence during the former government. Well, I don't mind at all that you ex-government didn't like, so I believe you're going to enjoy that power now. Unfortunately, I am concerned that the citizens will not enjoy this power and I am not at all upset by your views and your opinions. Instead of writing the amendment and helping the poor, helping the students, helping the students, you are still calling for prayer and blaspheming with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5174	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I've been listening to your speech in this second part. You referred to social criteria that must be in Croatian society. However, I really admire the Croatian Government, ministers, in these 37 days that have succeeded at all how much debt and what obligations you have left behind, of course, and this is from the predecessors of the former government in which HDZ was, how you managed to reach this budget in the first place. Of course there are errors in those items, but they will be corrected for sure. It's up to you to think, 100 billion kuna is a four-year assignment. A little while ago, we said it was 50 sand bridges and 300 billion about cca. It's a long one. As many schools as it is, as many as it is, I'll show it to the students, how many kindergartens it is. So where's the money? How many people are done, how many people are in containers, hundreds of thousands of people have gone outside, and now it's supposed to be a decline in unemployment. No, people are running out. Well, the sea of ours has now been handed over, apparently, under alleged signs, to check it well, to the Norwegians, to drill it, to spin it however they please. Not so much the public was interested or had any interest in drilling the Adriatic Sea. However, it is drilling, whose interest it is, tourism is being questioned because of these contracts or pre-contracts you have signed. Of course, I hope that all these intentions of yours, since you haven't been able to translate in the last 4, 8 or 12 years, that after 37 working days or 40 days of this government, we will start legal changes in this year and, of course, implement in the next budget or rebalancing, and that we will extract from the fungi of Croatia. And you brought her, all the Governments, the previous one and the one before her into the living mud, and there's gonna be big problems, and I hope the Most will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5176	Hala. The distinguished representative Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5177	If it was mud and fungi, then why are you reducing items for the most socially endangered citizens, for the students, for the islanders? Why are you reducing it? Is that an extraction if you cut off their funds? I don't even understand what you're saying. You say the budget was hard to come by. Each government inherited certain debts. And indeed, and indeed it is true. However, the budget is not difficult to reach, it is difficult to reach the budget. That's what I'm warning you. So with these cuts and cuts, we'll see what happens to the budget. And I'm going to remind you that I've been putting my last hopes into you right now, so you've let me down a little bit because MOST promised, here's an quote: "We're going to improve the education system.". My colleague, Glasovac, said, only Zadar University 40% of the funds are being reduced, the students are being transported. And you say we'll respect social differences. There's no such thing now. You support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5178	And finally the last replica of the distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5179	My colleagues Antičević-Marinović, I am going about having good foundations for this year's budget. We have GDP growth, we have industrial production growth, we have consumption growth, we have export growth, and on such foundations it's a little easier to build a budget than when you have a drop in everything that's happened in the previous six, seven years. The problem is if you do not have defined goals and deadlines when you will execute them. If we say that we need structural reforms we must have some agreement there. First, within those who are in power and have never seen such agreement before. Part of this ruling coalition is destroying the quorum of the Parliament. Permanent bouts of shots to be named. That way the government can't function. We can have the best ministers in the Croatian government if we do not agree on their moves in the Croatian Parliament, then it is of no use. Unfortunately, that's not what we've witnessed so far. And I think that we are now in a phase where in Croatia we should have a kind of social agreement of policy and social partners, which reforms should be implemented, in which way and who should bear greater or less costs of such reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5180	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5181	Yeah, they're good foundation colleagues, but so many have spoken from our club in different situations, we've made so much progress that no one will be able to narrow it down or anything else will be the same or won't be able to go back to the old or the worse. But I don't think there's any end to our naivety in this regard. And from there and this fear of yours of what you're talking about, no matter what they say, we see what the rulings show and what is already evident and outward. So one particular instability, slowness in all of this, not making decisions, not making decisions at the time caused by a series of disputes within foreign parties, let alone not within a coalition or but parties that co-operate in government. So there was a king of Midas who, all he touched, he was turning into gold and I'm afraid these things are being converted, you finish the sentence yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5182	Thank you very much. The next will be the distinguished representative of Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5183	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Although in the 2016 draft budget there are a whole series of interesting thematic elements that are due to be discussed, I will base my time, i.e. based my debate exclusively on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. The cumulative budget proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2016 is higher by 3.7% or about 245 million than in 2015, which should give rise to the satisfaction of the first ball for all users, but there is always an additional "but". A more detailed analysis of these same potential beneficiaries of the agriculture ministry budget also causes confusion and concern with this draft budget. As a person who, in very difficult conditions over the past few years, has been putting together and working on this budget for the previous years, I personally have a whole series of remarks on the draft budget that I will group in the following way. The first group of objections is related to EU funds, although this proposal shows the intention and wishes of a esteemed colleague, Roma, Resort Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for making the most of EU budget funds, which is in fact a positive continuity of the work of the Ministry of Agriculture over the past 2 years. I believe that it is, in fact, partly ill-planned, insufficiently ambitious and questionable, the possibility of realising it in view of the means planned for the work of those construction units in the ministry, i.e. the agencies that should carry out and the most work to do from sublegating acts to the preparation of competitions, the processing of the projects that have been received and all the jobs required for the withdrawal of these funds. When I say that the already planned funds are around 11.5% in 2015 in four funds that we use in the Ministry of Agriculture, and we are talking about the Guarantee Fund, i.e. the Direct Support Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Fisheries Funds and the Rural Development Fund, we withdrew 3 billion 136 million kuna, while for 2016 this amount was planned somewhere by 3 billion and 498 million or an increase of 11 and a half percent. I would remind myself that in 2015 it was zero years, because of the delay in adopting the entire reform package for the programming period of the 14th, 20th and common agricultural policies, the common fisheries policy in 2014 was for all EU Member States the programming year. If we had been approved by the Commission of the Rural Development Programme for a period of fourteenth, 20th somewhere in May, and among the first 30 Member States or the first 30 programmes, there were 118 for all Member States and regions being developed, and the operational fisheries programme was approved in the last quarter, one among the first. So, the Commission's strategic documents were approved in 2015. We've already called the competitions. These competitions were reported by a very, very large number of potential users. I'm only talking about measures four and measures six almost 4,000 users are registered only to this competition set. The comparisons work for the entire SAPARD and IPARD pre-accession funds for the 7th period, the 13th were fewer applications, total applications, the number of project applications, the less financial demanding location by these projects for a whole period of six years than on those first competition sets alone. It was also necessary to regulate the system and adapt it to all the strict requirements requested by the Commission, accreditation of all bodies to implement it. Competitions under these measures have been prepared, sublegal acts and most of the regulations have been prepared and a very important process for Croatian agriculture has started, for Croatian farmers, for all those users who through these very generous, generous funding opportunities through the funds, with a large return, should launch a whole new set of investments in primary agricultural production, but also process a plus investment in the demining of agricultural land that is being carried out actively on the ground, irrigating, a combination which we have also provided in the Rural Development Programme. And that's a good story. I'm a little confused with actually a rather conservative approach, or planning, if in the year zero we used 705 million from the Rural Development Fund, it's pretty careful to prepare or plan just billions and 77 million for next year. I would like it to be met in that amount, but that you should eventually have to ask a colleague, Maric, to approve an additional increase. What confuses me is that the paying agency is simply not able to respond to such a large number of projects that have arrived and do them in as short a time as possible, and that it meets all the necessary strict procedures that the EU's processing of projects requires is not in this part, this budget significantly restructured, i.e. the possible increase and reorganisation of the Agency itself in the more significant means that should be planned in this budget. The second set of my remarks refers in fact to a detailed reading of this budget in which I cannot actually read the announced reforms that have been discussed so much with all my wishes. In his presentation of the programme and way of working before the Committee on Agriculture, the esteemed fellow Romic announced a whole series of reform measures that have been part or part of the continuation of work for the past 4 years. On the board, we accepted and commended all the board members, but in this budget, we do not see it being monitored through financial statements. Here's just a few examples. As a priority for the work of this government and the ministry, land reform and putting as much as possible of the state agricultural land in agricultural production and then a whole set of other measures. But we see in the budget that the budget of the Agricultural Land Agency is reduced by 4.7 million kuna and 17%, respectively. In 2015, the irrigation was realised with 80 million kuna, with 50% of the budget being planned less, only 40 million kuna. Cooperation in 2015 2.7 million kunas, 1.4 million kunas planned this year. Organic production of tens of millions reduced in the position we had even though organic production is something that is the future of primary production in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, to read the budget, I would say an unnecessary and inappropriate multi-million-dollar increase in the item of various expenditures for services, unremarked costs for services, the purchase of long-term assets and equipment. Comparing everything with that 2015 data. Furthermore, the funds for salaries, staff and subsistence expenditures in the ministry and agencies remained at the same level or were only slightly reduced, although through technical assistance all of those employees of the European Ministry are financed from technical assistance for which we have 20 million kuna, so I don't know whether this means that new employment is planned or not being saved enough at material expenditures. And the third most significant group of my remarks refers to the funds planned to pay off direct support. In paragraph 819058, direct support in agriculture has been significantly reduced. We're talking about a decrease of nearly 625 million kuna. In 2015, we paid almost 95% of the total envelope, about 3 billion kuna of direct support, paid an advance of 750 million and started to work on the model of how developed EU Member States are working to pay the same current year. We heard from the Secretary-General on the board that 2 billion and 600 million kuna of support will be paid this year and that this advance will potentially be paid in the coming period. Because of the above, I have prepared a set of amendments, and I will refer them to the government. I hope they'll be appreciated. If not, I will not be able to support this budget because this draft budget slows the possibility of development, the withdrawal of funds and the proposal does not actually show the reforms announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5184	Thank you very much. And on this exhibit, we have two replicas. First the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5185	Dear President, thank you very much. You spoke of your work when you were a minister, but according to this law, you prescribed a law from the 1980s which is not possible today, nor is it enforceable. And how many projects are ready, how many did you leave essentially projects for realisation? You have now listed a number of incentives, a number of means but the fact is that the last time you said 12.5 thousand when you came to the power of the dairy producer, we now have about 4.5 thousand dairy producers. Slavonia is empty, stables and farms are empty. The Dalmatian Zagora that once had the same large number of cattle, fields, karst fields, Sinjsko polje, Vrgoračka, Drnsko also nothing. Well, I don't see much of a score for all the billions you've counted. And I sincerely hope that you will help this new minister get out of nothing, from the burned and dead country of Croatian peasants who left Croatia because many have left. So we don't even have people who've dealt with this because they're forced by the policy that your government and the previous government have to go to third countries or do other jobs. And I hope it's up to the Minister and this government to raise this peasant and village because without rich villages and peasants, there's no rich country. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have over 50% of foreign food imports on lobbying sites that sell their products in trade chains and the village is extinct. So I hope you will help the current minister bring the Croatian village back to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5186	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5187	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Bulj The Law on Cooperation was passed a year and a half ago in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, since '90. the year, or since '89. There was no membership in the Republic of Croatia. The whole series of good things are done by a combination, not just rounding up agricultural areas to make competitive agricultural production, but also by editing the canal network of irrigation systems, road networks and so forth. Why it hasn't been done in the Republic of Croatia in 25 years, I don't know. Our government has made this proposal, this esteemed House has passed this law, a multi-annual plan has been made, pilot projects have been designed to operate or operate, significant funds have been provided in the rural development programme, and I hope and I am sure that both fellow Roma and its co-workers will continue at an accelerated pace. When you're talking about the problems of Croatian agriculture, they're not since yesterday, they're not back four years away from how I ran this ministry. Unfortunately, the deficit in external trade, the amount of coverage of our domestic production by import, is for years or decades, unfortunately the same. At a time when we could make our system, our agriculture more competitive, when we had the exclusive possibility of funding domestic support and financing and monitoring what we were supposed to do we didn't take advantage of it and we didn't carry out the transition the best way. And this when you say your government and their government, this is now your government and you're a coalition partner, and I told Minister Romic and wished for happiness and success, and I wanted the ministry to be more successful and better than it was led by me and everything that was positive will be supported whether on board or here in the assembly but I will also use the moment to point to things that are not good or that I think might be better in the interest of Croatian agriculture and Croatian farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5188	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5189	Your Honor. Ministers of the former, I think that in your mandate very large funds came from small family farms, rural households for their self-sustainable development, but it never came to them, but it came to large players in Croatia who used it perhaps two, three. So our village won nothing good during the fourth-year power of your government and yours. I also want to say that you've been very good at teaching agricultural staff, so you've successfully trained for tractor drivers, for syringe handlers, bear bee growers, professional workers in the use of motor saws, working with connected devices, and you've wrapped it up nicely and given certificates and diplomas to farmers who've been doing the same job for the 3rd, 4th, or I don't know which generation, who have it in a small fingernail but who had to go to the necessary education and pay for it all out of their pocket. Even though there was little help from you, I just don't know where it was going. And another thing, it's so much smoke made that today a small orchard around its garden can't get to the 2dcl herbicide that sprays in time neither its fruit or vineyards nor anything because there's no need for a certificate to spray that same good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5190	Thank you, the Honorable representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5191	The RS support system was not invented by Minister Jakovina. Common agricultural policy is the most orderly policy that applies to all but all Member States and all farmers in the EU, and then those rules apply to us. It is known that direct support in agriculture is paid, as are the deadlines for applications. And the truth is that they were leaving as you said on 2, 3 large players because we had almost 100,000 users of support at the annual level in the Republic of Croatia. And what you're saying about the necessary certificates that had to be made or done that, that's the same obligation for all farmers, for all agricultural producers in the EU, there was no possibility that, regardless of the experience of our agricultural producers, I am saying that life experience and production experience they have. Simply more use of protective means cannot be done anywhere and buying and working with these funds unless there is a certificate. So it's not fiction or the wetlands of the former government, it's just a simple commitment that we had to make within the deadlines. If Minister Romic had been sitting in the period when I ran the ministry in that place he would have had to implement the regulation equally and all agricultural producers would have to pass those educations, get the necessary certificates and then continue their agricultural production. When we're talking I always appeal and I always like to talk about arguments, let's talk about arguments, not flat-rate reviews, not politics or what we'd like, which demagogue sounds good for voters, let's talk to the facts. On the one hand, we have rights, rights to significant European funds that we use from funds and which we have projects or directly to support but on the other hand we have obligations. Obligations that apply to all EU farmers. Unfortunately, we are the last to enter, we have entered unprepared, and for this we now have to make great steps, to reach that level of Europe. We have knowledge, we have resources, we have expertise. All we have to do is work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5192	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the esteemed Nadia Turini-Djuric., I just want to say that here's how the thing is now with the reported that there are no replicas we're going to stay up to half-three, so we're half an hour better than the last time but no replicas, under that assumption. And now I'm going to give a word to my esteemed colleague Nadia Turini-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's a few estimates of this budget that's ahead of us. I already said in one replica, so this budget is technically very solid, balanced in terms of income and expenditure and it has one goal that it realizes and that is to reduce the excessive deficit of our budget and let's say that it is possible to say and commendable. So one goal is realized which is something to us that has been a problem for many years. However, it is evident from the plane that the budget is actually set up. And anyone who's ever done a budget knows what it means to set a budget. So in this budget, there are somewhat reduced expenditures, according to my personal court in the wrong places, especially in the wrong places, if we take into account the announcements of colleagues from the Patriot coalition, and especially by a fellow member from the Most, in which parts will not only be budgeted but in which they will be saved and in which way they will be saved. But I'll tell you about it a little bit later. So, something's been saved. Unfortunately, for the most part on some of the weakest groups of citizens from students to disabled students, so scientists, which is certainly something that will be a big problem and I'm afraid that those savings that are planned in the budget will unfortunately not be possible, probably won't be able to be respected, so there will come to us today or tomorrow some rebalancing where these things will have to be resolved. And of course the revenues have been increased. Where are they increased? They have been increased for sale of assets, increased on tax revenues, i.e. from VAT and in one good part have been increased by revenue from EU funds. These are the revenues that are in the cloud, so these are the incomes that might be, but it's also possible that it won't be or will not be in one good part unfortunately. And then this whole budget on that story actually falls. So the budget is technically complex. However, it is designed and I fear that very soon it will have to experience its changes in order to address the fundamental problems to which the budget must rely, i.e. the revenues it can rely to meet certain legal obligations. Because as we can see, we haven't received any legislative proposals in the last month that could essentially change certain budget items as foreseen by the budget. Now, in what I think HDZ is objectively said, it's nothing surprising. For me, this budget, as far as they're concerned, is quite clear and is given the size that they normally did. But I'm surprised where they were when this budget was being done by colleagues from the Most? I don't think they've been there at all in making this budget, even though I can see that it's being defended by some of them. But who was speaking on behalf of a fellow MOST, on behalf of the MOST Club, expressed a certain reserve. He even gave some conditional support to this budget saying that this budget would go conditionally as the first budget because there was no time to, or there was no way to change the law of the machine to change the budget substantially, so he said conditionally this could go away, but next year we expect the real reform budget announced by the MOST colleagues months after the elections. However, this means that one year is actually lost and that in this year we can hardly through, at least reading this budget, expect some more significant reforms that could bring some significant shifts to the benefit of our citizens. So I will briefly try to remind MOST colleagues here and also warn that what they said in their pre-election programme and in negotiations with current partners, as well as with the coalition Croatia is growing what they are, which they insisted on and what they have ever conditioned to enter into co-operation, i.e. in the coalition. So I have to warn them that some things have already expired because they already said that in the first quarter of 2016 some things will be done, one good part of it has not been done. But I'm just going to warn them about what's going on in this budget, and what's not in the trails absolutely in this budget, so let's say in the judiciary where they planned a significant acceleration of the work of the courts, an increase in the transparency of the work of the courts, the information of the judiciary and the rationalisation of the costs, so I ask them where they were when this budget was being done, given that the judiciary had a decrease of 5.5% and 2.4 billion kuna respectively. Definitely these three, four points that are part of their programme that should have been realised this year through this budget are not seen. In local self-government, says the rationalisation of a political apparatus, territorial reform of local and county self-government. I don't know where in this budget any place has now been affected in terms of reforming any, because we see that exactly the administration's budget, so the Ministry of Administration is one of the few resistors that have experienced an increase. I hope that this is about the Minister at least preparing this year for those very large money that has been increased, meaning 324 to 373 million, for 50 million, that at least she will order some strategic studies and analyses, and then perhaps at the end of this year, or in the next budget, we will see something more concrete about public administration reform. What seems most important to me, and what has also been not only a promise but also a search for colleagues from MOST and what is definitely not seen, but quite the opposite, is investment in education and science. So I'm literally reading and quoting from part of the program. He says, "From the system of science and higher education, all scientific money has been employed for a certain period of time over the past decades and for teaching and scientific work in these institutions is almost everything before collapse." Now, you know that multiple actually reduced budgets are precisely for scientific recruits and HNS is in that sense, before you are also our amendments, HNS is in that sense and has proposed an amendment to return at least 50 million kuna to scientific recruits. And that's exactly from the item from which I see that you've now taken the most in rebalancing, and that's to support religious communities. We think there's room with 295 million you've already downloaded 10 so you can take down another ten since somewhere around 245 million is enough for them to function. I hope colleagues from the Most and others who will vote for the budget tomorrow or when they will support it. There are a whole series of items in the budget that unfortunately have experienced a reduction. What particularly hurts my let's say fellow citizens from my region where I live is a reduction in the item for coastal line transport. Someone here was saying that it was only that the execution this year was less and that you were handling it. But I'm afraid if we want any promotions here and keep people on the islands that these funds won't be enough. That's it. I think this budget will be very difficult to realise. It's not ambitious, it's simply staged, and this is how I think it's going to have to experience root changes very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5194	The replica was presented by the esteemed representative Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5195	Well, it would be surprising for Đurić, if you were talking about something other than MOST, because after you took pictures of the MPs hidden in this assembly, which is absolutely inappropriate and called and put on facebook now all you're talking about is MOST. So what if there wasn't a MOST, what would you be talking about tonight? Maybe it's about what you didn't do as an HNS, so now you resent us. Perhaps it is only good that in your amendments, as I see it, it is only better than what colleagues from the IDS who have two parties from Rijeka in their actual team and coalition, and that all amendments are actually in Istria and give to the hospital in Istria and the University of Pula and the Rijeka parties are not mentioned anywhere. You didn't do anything about Rivera either. But it doesn't matter. You resent what, first of all the reforms will be carried out by MOST. In these two months, of course not because it would be too unserious, the reforms are ready and you will certainly see with the money that was planned for the reforms to be made. Well, then you resent being so little in the judiciary. And what you will soon see as to territorial reconstruction and regionalization that are in preparation for why so much has been left in the Ministry of Administration. So if it wasn't for the Most, we wouldn't have anything to talk about. Well, we don't need a PR when we have a lawyer like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5196	Thank you. Replica's response to the distinguished representative, Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5197	Well, look, colleagues, of course I'm talking about the Most. The Most brought HDZ to power part of its co-operation with HDZ. Why? Because HDZ agreed to everything you asked for, and I only read part of it. And that part I read, I'd like you to tell me from that part at least something that's embedded in this budget. And that's your responsibility. And you can't get away from it, Mrs. Linic. ... There's nothing built in, absolutely nothing built in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So from this whole thing, and there's still this is just part, absolutely nothing, not a sign of these reforms. And be careful, you have negotiated for 2 months with the Patriot coalition, with the Croatian coalition growing, written on tens of hundred pages what you want, and now that it is finally on the wallpaper document through which you can exercise influence, you agree with what the HDZ served you, and HDZ has served you a de facto budget based on the implementation of the 2015 Budget. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5198	A distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues Turina-Đurić spoke about the budget for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, and here we see that the amendment of the Government has been made regarding the transport of therefore insurance of funds for the transport of students. What is readable from the fact that one part is taken from the positions of religious communities, i.e. regarding the Treaty of the Holy See-Republic of Croatia, one part is taken from the part relating to the customs and tax system of maintenance of border crossings and the rest but interesting that one part was found by actually taking it from one, put it in another within the same ministry. So within the position of the university and the university in the Republic of Croatia. So you take 5 million kuna and that is the University of Split and the University of Zagreb and at the position of primary education capital investment in primary education 5 million kuna. So now there's money from the same ministry turning into something else. And that, therefore, is what we took from the same ministry to give to others. And that's a short-term measure because since the fall of this calculation and what's been done here is actually not going to be subsidies for student transport because this is completely insufficient to cover by the end of this year. And when I mentioned customs crossings I just want to say we have on the agenda tomorrow to amend the law on defence and therefore on participation, possible participation of the Armed Forces in the protection of borders, and at the same time we are removing funds to equip border crossings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5200	Replica's response to the distinguished representative, Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5201	Well, yes, it's just amazing, there were some promising, now I won't mention MOST because it tells me very much about my colleague Linic, but some have promised and said that, so the funds for education, science and technology will rise above the European average, which means that it should be more than 4%, cca. 5% detachment from GDP. And then here's to this amendment that the government itself submits, so from the same basket they take to students, they give temporarily to students. And it's quite visible from the 2017 budget projections that these funds actually don't exist. So look, we haven't been most of us since yesterday, and we've seen more times the budget, not just the state, but some locals, and we know how it's done. However, the public should be told, that is, our dear parents of our high school children to start saving for the transport of their students because they are likely to be as promised by the minister from the next school year. However, we have now started to do one bad thing here, and that is that we share our children according to the property status of their parents, which I also think is not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5202	Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5203	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to meet you. A 1% party in the SDP coalition on the wings that entered this House in this number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And indeed, if there is anything to be reform, there should be a reform of the legislation on elections, the Law on Elections, where pre-election coalitions should be banned. And I'm sure we won't be doing Mrs. MPs or colleagues like you did. So, for example, you appoint the director of HEP who's your party colleague. And when you change the president of the party or the minister then you get rid of him and you name the other one and this first one gets slow, so the state owes him a million kunas, a vehicle, a cell phone and a hooch. And that's why we have problems in the budget and we can talk about it. It can't be MOST's fault after 30 days, 40 of what the government has appointed. And you can't transfer all perceptions to the Most. But we invite you to all that we have negotiated with you. 'Cause if you were told to run to the Jelačić Ban who'd be running for the coalition sooner, it'd be a race. Don't cry over the fate of Croatia because you brought her to this, but help her, roll your sleeves, show it by example. Where's your decentralisation? What have you done to the peasants, the villages? From areas that are border areas, i.e. Undeveloped areas. How many people are in the container? How much did he move out? Think about these fates and help this government that will be reformable, where laws will be amended and where these laws will focus and develop this country. But just before, I said a country where all the previous governments had fallen into a glare of 300 billion kuna and the situation was chaotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5204	Replica's response to the distinguished representative, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5205	Comrade Bulj, the HNS won more than 100,000 votes preferentially in this election, so now you count. Four of our MPs passed because they skipped their classmates on the list. So we'll see you in the next election. Yeah, we change directors when they're not good. We'll see what you do. We, the truth is, because HEP, so in the last two years, with the same director over the last two years, has produced excellent results, I think HEP 2 billion kunas have been in profits and that's how it ended. If you don't turn those billions somewhere else right now. The fate of Croatia has unfortunately been most years since we were in the independent state, Croatia's fate has been in the hands of HDZ, they are now your coalition partners. And we found this country four years ago in a much worse state than it is now. And you look at that a little bit what the budget looked like, the first one we brought, which were indicators when we, economically, when we were bringing that budget in relation to the indicators that we have today. There is a finance minister who I see is very objective and professional on this matter, so he can explain to you that the situation is still significantly better. And as for decentralisation and general funds for these cities and municipalities you've been crying over all along, I'll tell you, I was one of the MPs who didn't vote for the Regional Development Act that was proposed by my coalition, the ruling coalition, I was one of those MPs. And you were in a position today, or you were in a position yesterday when you were doing this budget to some of those units of local self-government that you know are in a difficult situation and you didn't legally enter the possibility of subsidizing to suggest that in the budget you help them but you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5206	Thank you. Next in the debate, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There's been a lot said so far. I would therefore focus on two segments of the budget, which is education and social policy even though we are in education here is exactly what Mrs Turina Đuric before me talked about education as many others before me. But I think it's a subject that deserves a lot more attention maybe than she's got now. So, as we heard the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is lower by 158 million kuna. In itself, the total amount of the budget is not a large sum. However, if we bear in mind that the expenditures of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are mostly assigned, so that the minister has very little room for manoeuvre and that it is an area that is extremely sensitive, already sub-financed then it is a huge amount for Croatian science, for Croatian education, for Croatian students and students. As said in the mornings in the debate on education, education is not only economic, it is also a strategic category if you ask me and that is why this is more important. Why is it a strategic category? It is precisely because quality education guarantees quality workforce, agile labour, resourceful that will be easier to manage in the labour market. Lifelong learning is, today is no longer a trend but a need. So this all guarantees that we have a good workforce that works, which is being managed on the market, which is being educated by the more life-long education as I have said now and the need, i.e. it is impossible to carry out one’s entire life without further training, i.e. education. Many have underlined the transportation of students, i.e. between line-up, public interurban transportation for secondary school students, and I will re-emphasise it. Here's as fellow Sobol recently noticed before me we got an amendment from the government that increases this item by 32 million kuna. But I will join there the appeal of colleague Voter who previously said that, the transport remains, but remains only until June, and after June which will be then. Because this amount isn't enough to cover all costs. If we want our students, especially those in rural areas, whose middles are not to ensure that under equal conditions they can attend high school, then this is a measure that we should never stop. I'll remind you now that it's 75% of the price of the map, that many units of local self-government co-finance that map sometimes up to a hundred percent, some slightly less in accordance with their capabilities. But this is a measure that has allowed many students to go to school and it has not flossed. As I came from the education system, I spoke to my colleagues and colleagues, classmates, and classmates who had just pointed out that many parents had indicated, expressed their concern, that they were not sure if they would be able to settle costs if their child had to travel. Some said that their child would have to enroll another school because, say, in the nearest place where the high school is located, there is no education for the professions that the child wants to attend, etc. etc. I think we should give our students a chance to study at the school they want and in the profession they want, so all under the same conditions or the closest to the same conditions they can have. The budget of the university has been reduced. Even more radically to universities, higher schools. That was the same thing. But I'll stick to one interesting fact, and that's to spend on employees of all universities growing, except the University of Osijek. So, I'm talking about the only university in Eastern Croatia with the Brod University that we've established, but it's also not in the budget, which is also an interesting detail. Whether this means reducing the number of employees or sharing cancellations or which is why this item is reduced. A lot of other items are shrinking, I'm going to count some, on some I'm going to stay a little longer because I think they're worth our attention, which is a program to improve student standards, scholarship students, development of higher school education. As I said earlier this morning, it turns out that our state is investing more in the restoration of the Constitutional Court's fleet than in the development of higher education. This is indeed a shocking fact, especially if we consider the fact that in the past budget it was also one symbolic amount of one million and a half, i.e. one million and 666 thousand kuna. It's now reduced to 500 thousand kuna. Very insufficient, not even unsymbolic. Investment in scientific and research activities has also been reduced, technical culture or funding beyond teaching activities in technical culture has been completely expelled. I'll remind you like this, it was on one more symbolic level than some hundred thousand kunas. Now there's not so much, and we keep saying that our students should be encouraged to enroll in technical schools, to study at technical schools, to specialize in technical professions because it's a development. On the other hand, we have such a basic school and high school curricula, that the average student who enrolls in high school meets with technical culture 35 hours a year. So if that's four years you can multiply how many hours it's all expensive just theoretical teaching without any practical. We who are older, who have attended school before, remember those practical parts. But unfortunately, it's gone in schools and it's not good. Croatian Qualification Framework. Also reduced expenditures for the Croatian qualification framework from about 400,000 kuna, from 600,000 kuna to 250,000 kuna, I caricate the numbers, I speak them in mind. The Croatian Qualifications Framework has not already been implemented, so if we talk about the hodogram as planned, and it is vital for the system of education as formal, so more informal precisely because it would contribute to greater competitiveness in the labour market, i.e. it could introduce both the knowledge and skills acquired by informal education into the frameworks of formal qualifications. There is, of course, volunteering that is also extremely important in modern society and means of volunteering, i.e. encouraging volunteering is also reduced which I do not think is good. A culture of volunteering needs to be developed. And the Croatian qualification framework is one that the English would say from... The added value that we can gain by encouraging the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework means that volunteering can acquire some informal qualifications that can later help to find work. [[You don't understand.]] As far as social policy is concerned, I mentioned the guaranteed minimum fee is reduced, i.e. the planned funds from 629 million to 533. Some colleagues said in the debate that it was due to insufficient implementation in the budget. We cannot read it from this proposal but it is indicative of what message is being sent, and the message is that when many of our citizens are faced with a lack of property, when they receive a guaranteed minimum fee that helps them to survive, we literally reduce those funds. There will be a rebalance if it was too much money and it is easily reduced. But I hope the funds won't have to be added, but the message isn't good anyway. We also received an appeal from the D.A. for people with disabilities. I join her appeal. Namely, it's an extra for the help and care of people with disabilities. In fact, at the end of last year, about 66,000 people benefited from the aid and care allowance, which is the law prescribed by the Social Care Act Articles 57 to 62. It is recognised by a person who cannot meet the basic needs of life alone, which is why she needs help and is needed by other people in organising meals, preparing and taking meals, getting groceries and cleaning, cleaning up apartments, etc., etc. So all of those activities that we who do not have disability take for granted, and people with disabilities, that is quite an insurmountable obstacle. Dear colleagues and colleagues who receive this compensation in 100% amount is 500 kuna. I think it's a very, very symbolic fee if we're talking about people who have extremely high living costs and for which they're not themselves to blame or have disability. And these are mostly poor people or are exposed to serious risks of poverty precisely because of their physical handicap. And to conclude, one of the HDZ colleagues said that, and I like that formulation very much that the budget is the most serious programming of each government. If this is the programme legitimacy of this government then they can conclude that there is no reform in this budget, that only the most vulnerable groups in society, students, students, people receiving social assistance, etc., and that there are no development projects and developments on the other hand. Someone said God forbid it's our biggest problem, but that's the biggest problem of our society to help those who are not objectively in the same position as the others and that we have a good education that will create from our future citizens people who will certainly perform independently and resourcefully on the labour market and create their future in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5208	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5209	A colleague of Hajdukovic's has what he has in this budget are the planned funds of a national stake based on two operational programmes. First, competitiveness and cohesion and other effective human potentials. I am pleased that we in the ministry have worked hard to mean those national priorities related to the education system, which we knew we would not be able to finance with the strength of the Croatian budget to create a thorough basis and to cover key topics, i.e. areas of the Science, Education and Technology Strategy through the use of funds. On the other hand, regardless of what we will charge the state budget of many investments in the system of education on the other hand, let's call all these savings so they have not become further involved in the education system. So we witness that they actually disappear or shrink dramatically even by 55% of the fees or state rewards for outstanding results in education or promotion of excellence. Already, some colleagues said in the morning that public-private partnership projects as one of the possible models for financing infrastructure investment in school facilities in which we invested 58.6 million kuna in three years. And so, unfortunately, there's not much, and it seems to me to me that even the curricula reform isn't writing well. I hope I'm wrong, but we have made a basis for all that the strategy is designed to implement and according to the action plan that was important for 2015, but I can see that it is simply a copy trap, there has been no view of the Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy itself and the curricula reforms and has responded to the requirements of the 2016 Budget, and even less in the 2017 and 2018 projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5210	Replica response, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Voice yes, I'm glad you underlined this, in fact you reminded me of a few other items that I wanted to comment on. And as for the curricula reforms, I think we all agreed when we discussed the government's trust and the government's vote that we underlined how important it is for this reform to continue. I repeat, and now I will repeat that in my career as a student, a student, and then at the end and a teacher or teacher, I was part of a few education reforms. None of them worked, none of them I don't know seven, eight, nine how many there were. And why is that? Because none of them have been implemented on purpose, strategically and means with some imaginary diagram, with objectives and outcomes and clearly arranged way to implement them. It was concluded at this point that we are now starting to work by not knowing HNOS (Croatian National Education Standard). It wasn't easy to live. You can't put changes in such a big system with a magic wand and say now everything that was before isn't worth it. That is why it is important that this reform that we have started, I must remind my HDZ colleagues, they were not against the strategy, but they were restrained, but it should be continued. Because if you think it's necessary to revise it we can talk about it in certain segments but continue to need it. National priorities and EU projects, for example, that is very interesting on the items of the EU university projects, are recorded in reductions everywhere. Why is that? I can understand that some universities didn't get some projects that were planned but they didn't get any projects, or any more kunas than they had, some had very little and they can't believe it. The licensing of directors also reduces funds. State awards, fostering excellence, reducing resources to what we swore only a few months ago. And you remember very well the debate on the education strategy. ... It looked like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5212	Thank you. Next in the debate is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So I think it's clear to all of us that the budget is primarily a financial and political document. A political document expressing the clear political position of the ruling majority. And in this context, it is also the right but also the obligation of the ruling majority to defend it, to support it and ultimately support it. But it is also the right and the obligation of the opposition to criticise it, to challenge it and to try to indicate how this document can be made better. Mr. Minister, I can't be too hard on you personally. Most of the objections relating to this document relate to its specific part where your colleagues have been working out how money from their portfolio will be spent and cardinal errors have been made there. And that's why all those who say that this budget is a copy of our budget are wrong. He's far from it. However, I have one objection to you, and I would like to ask you a question. This budget is evident, perhaps more than any available today, based on funds that should come from the EU to the Republic of Croatia, from EU funds. And that's commendable. However, your colleagues, in particular some European Parliament MPs, have repeatedly disputed the work of this government, a pardon, the previous government in the area of attracting funds from EU funds. But you and I both know that the funds to be paid in 2016 can't come from the European projects that we started working on today or we'll start working on tomorrow. We're talking about the funds that started working a few months ago, even a few years ago. As a member of the Supervisory Board of Kaštljun d.o.o. from Pula, while I was a member of the Pula City Headship, I can say that on an EU project that ends today in 2016 we started working 10 years ago to enjoy today the grants that came from Europe. It's not a work that happens overnight. And that is why I think it would be correct of you to a little bit and commend the work of the previous government on attracting funds from EU funds if you base on the growth of the budget or its sustainability. And what was the work of the previous government was also said by our former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, today the SDP president and the leader of the opposition when he spoke about export growth, about the growth of personal consumption, about the growth of production that all led to GDP growth, I now believe that there will be this and the 6th quarter. Today, however, EUROSTAT published another interesting information. In the fourth quarter of 2015, when compared to the previous quarter of the Republic of Croatia, the second EU member behind Malta is following an increase in employment. So compared to the 3rd quarter of 2015, the Republic of Croatia, together with Malta, is leading the EU after an increase in employment. And this increase in employment which is a result of the work of the previous government is seen in the fact that the number of employees, I'm not talking about reducing unemployment, I'm talking about a concrete number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are building compared to the quarter of 2014 that percentage is 2% already. Well, that's the success we've been working for. Not because of GDP growth for itself, but because of employment growth. And please continue because that's what this country needs first. As I have already mentioned, the biggest problem of this budget lies in that part of the budget spending, or the work of your colleagues. A lot of things are said, everyone's talking about something that's close to him, about something he's worked on. And I think it's perfectly legitimate for me to explain here some of the amendments I've submitted to this budget. There have been a lot of speeches on the University of Pula and on the problem with EU funds, but I am obliged to repeat it. So in the 2016 budget we have 3 items relating to the University of Pula. One of course is the EU projects of the University of Pula where the amount has been reduced to 15 thousand kuna. I said maybe the trap's hiding somewhere else, maybe somewhere else they're supposed to be. I looked for a second item of capital expenditure, there are 900 thousand kuna funds, and they refer to payments that are lagging behind from building homes and cafeterias. And it will be projected 900 thousand kuna in 2017 and 2018 even though the home is finished. Although if the end situation was really made, it should be settled in 2016. And finally, I looked at the item of the regular funding of the University of Pula which was reduced also by 10%, and there I found in the budget explanation that the funds were only for staff expenditures, other expenditures for employees and material expenditures involving only compensation for employees and students. I found no EU funds anywhere. And why am I telling you this? Because as Puležan, I know how much our university is working to attract funds from EU funds, how many ideas, how many projects it has started working on and which, with such a reduction, will not be able to achieve, in particular, those relating to EU funds. Ministers, several of us from Istria have submitted a series of amendments, you do not have to accept these amendments in the form in which we have proposed them, but I ask you to try to adopt something in communication with the Minister responsible for the issue of education, or at least a little change in that item relating to European funds not only to the University of Pula, because it is one of many, perhaps best known to me, but one of the many projects that will attract money from European funds in the Republic and give added value not only through these investments and direct incomes that will be achieved only by building, let's just say I don't know how to edit a multimedia centre, order a student centre and so on, but also the value that we get for our education through it. We've got time. We'll vote Monday. Please take a look at all these remarks that are sent to you and find the funds. It's not about huge means. It's about small funds for the budget, but funds that will be returned directly. That's one point. The second remark is I'd say more serious and complicated, and I think I have enough time to explain it to you. Immunological institute. We in the budget also have two items for the Immunological Institute. One item refers to the Immunological Institute, a new institution that is formed, i.e. it should be created by reshaping the Immunological Institute d.d. And I'm not going to go into the details of that. I think I understand why not all those funds the unions are looking for are not foreseen. But we have another item that's much more problematic than that. This is the paragraph Immunological Institute d.d. It is in the budget for the entry Immunological Institute d.d. the estimated 5 million kunas relating to the payment of the debts incurred by the creditors. Immunological services are now blocked for 54 days. Within six days, the 60-day blockade after which the bankruptcy procedure is initiated expires. In case of bankruptcy proceedings of the Immunological Institute d.d. from the Immunological Institute as an institution will be nothing because the property will know what's going on in the Banking Law will have to be used to settle debt to the believers. For the Immunological Institute d.d. For the next three years, 87 million religious claims are due. 2016l of the year reaches 67 million requests from the credentials. In the budget you predicted 5 million, there are no 62 million kuna needed to prevent the bankruptcy of the Immunological Institute and any adverse consequences that would result. I ask you as you have found the means at least for part of the fee for the cost of transporting pupils in secondary schools to reconsider the situation, but not in that item for the Immunological Institute as an institution, but in those items the Immunological Institute d.d.. and try to see that the funds are provided to communicate directly with the believers in order to prevent damage and all that we are trying to remove, and I think that with the efforts that I am sure of, and I have followed the statements and the Minister of Economy, for the efforts that the Government is prepared to prevent from harming Croatia. Here's so much from me. Of course, this budget has from my point of view as the opposition's representative too many differences compared to my views that I could support it. But I ask you both as a representative and as a citizen of this country, to try to correct at least these two and several other remarks that your colleagues have made to you in order to get a better document for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5214	Thank you. The next one in the debate came from a respected representative, Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5215	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Minister. I won't be long, just a few things about the judiciary. So first one principle thing about the budget. I have a very big argument on my mind. So the explanation of the budget is such that it's completely unclear and I don't want to believe that it was done on purpose. But an explanation of a budget from which you can't see why something is increasing or dropping, so lifts or lowers in items is not an explanation. And my suggestion would be the next time you're working if you're in a position to be, to really explain why something's going up or down. It's very hard to follow, and we're all in a situation where we actually have to assume what you mean by that. If we already have an explanation, let's take advantage of it, it means that we really know as MPs and all of us when the budget is announced, that we know what was going to happen. As far as the judiciary is concerned, so what I've seen is a reduction of 135 million kuna. I can only express my condolences here, I'm sorry there are no colleagues of the Sprite, because it's a completely unsustainable budget for the judiciary. I'm telling you here that without any rebalancing you'll end up with a minus 150 million to 160 million kuna in the judiciary next year. So, a completely unfounded and unplanned budget. The obligations are those that you cannot influence, even if you change some laws now, the obligations that come to you will lead to a minus 150 million kuna at the end of the year, 150, 160. Some of the stuff. Information that's too important, 13 million kunas less. She was now borderline, barely maintained. With a reduction like this, nothing can be done by the end of the year. Next. Justice Academy. It may indicate actually how complex the entire system is. You raise by staff costs, and you reduce the fees for judges and all those who need to be educated at the academy. That's absurd. You already have 4:1, so the administration costs you 75% of the budget, and only 25% goes to those who are educated. Total absurdity, and now you've increased those ratios even further. They weren't good before, but you're going in the wrong direction right now. So that's one of the things I'd also recommend you change. You should give more for those who need to be educated at the academy and less for those who work there. Next, close the penitentiary. You're cutting the budget, I'm talking again from experience, and I'm telling you this in the best way because it's a system that works 24 hours a day. None of us are interested in having problems with him. With this reduced budget, since no systematic changes are foreseen, you will not be able to complete the end of the year. So the suppliers will be in debt for 3 to 6 months, maybe they'll go to 9 and you'll have a big problem at the end of the year. From energy to energy. Unsustainable budget. Next, I don't understand why you're reducing the DORH to 17 million kunas, mostly at a foreign representation point. It's something that happens with your will or without your will, it's debts and these are bills that will come to you. Now that you don't predict them in the budget, you're going to have to find money for them. It's not good to go in now with a minus so that by the end of the year you'll have to add about 20 million kuna to that. I repeat this is something you can't say we won't pay because these are debts to foreign suppliers, these are processes that go and you can't get out of. So it's just bad planning. If it stays like this at the end of the year, you'll have lawsuits in front of foreign courts. Next, county courts. You're reducing 20 million kuna for intellectual services. That's what I saw in a hurry, it's shrinking and more. Already, debts were such that they were paid within three months. With this reduction, you'll be late for the witches, lawyers for a year at a time. That's inadmissible. We've been struggling for three years to get into some kind of three-month payout. You are now returning it to what we inherited a year and more. It can't work like that. It's not fair, then you should say we won't do anything in the judiciary or pay it. I mean, the judiciary costs money. He's one of the systems that makes up the cost, he works 24 hours a day. If there's no money for him, I don't know, that's what to say. This way, reducing the budget and going consciously into the production of debts and delays towards suppliers is wrong. It's the same thing with municipal courts. Only on this 16 million kuna down there. It's debts that you can't reduce because they're coming, tomorrow they'll come, the day after tomorrow. So when you're looking at it together. What's a feature is nowhere to be reduced by employees. So you predict in a system that is now number two in Europe per capita you predict an increase in wages. You're saving so much on everything else that your system won't work. Not to you, to us. We are all citizens of this country, and it is in our interest that this system works. So I would appeal, I'm sure that's what my colleague Sprlje was doing, I feel for him because it was obviously unsuccessful, but if you don't raise the budget, if you don't find the funds to raise the budget for the judiciary not only that the reforms that have been announced won't be anything of them, I'm not going to go in here now whether they're seen from the budget or not, I expect and I hope that it will come to them so at least declared but with this you won't be able to maintain the cold drive. And nowhere is it intended to come to these savings. There's simply no room for it, and these are debts that will arise every day. And you will either be conscious of what you can be or will be aware that you will owe 9 months minimum to suppliers at the end of the year to suppliers. So another appeal, just for that reason, for considering these items and for you to really sit down with a colleague in charge of the judiciary and tell you what it is you need to do and to try to raise that budget. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5216	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, my esteemed colleague, Orsate, came forward because at one point you mentioned reduced funds in information. As I recall one of the main speeches in the pre-election campaign even during the formation of this government was the story of setting up a new Ministry of Information or Digitalisation or as we already want to call it, and today we actually have a situation that is even a little schizophrenic and completely vice versa that not only in the Ministry of Justice but also in many other ministries, precisely the items on information reduce what is truly definitely and from this aspect of disaster. Here is Minister Maric, and I think he as Minister of Finance and Economist at best knows very well that the best way to save money in any way today in terms of the process and the aspect of any communication is this very information. I will remind you that during the former government there was a major e-script project which among other major plans had both dematerialisation and delivery of files and acts to citizens through the system of e-citizens which was also made through the former government. It's a system that was supposed to save tens of millions of kunas a year that would only be spent on paying the postage between citizens and the central state. I'm afraid that in this way, in some small savings that, ultimately, neither the state nor the budget will bring anything as savings, you'll cause a lagging behind and a halting of major projects that the state needs to lead to a new age and that, among other things, need to actually bring in those real savings and bring in what everyone here is saying all the time, a final reform of public administration. Because when we talk about reforming the public administration, it's not a rush of officials, it's primarily informing the same public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5218	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5219	Thank you very much. Col. Paric, just what you pointed out, so we mentioned a lot here today and did business, we mentioned the European Commission Report. It was precisely in the judiciary and in the information sector that there were shifts in these areas. In doing business, it is indicated that the shifts in the information of the judiciary are the largest. In the European Commission report, you saw what we did. With this proposed budget, especially for information, it will not be realised. The equipment's worn out, old lady. She needs to be changed. The illusion is to expect that by the end of the year they will be able to withdraw so much from the funds because they simply don't get to program. It doesn't depend, I don't want to get into success or success at all, but it's objectively so, we're now at the 4th month. So with a budget like this for information, the processes will stop for you. I don't mind you stopping the process, we'll stop the process. So here we are citizens of this country, in the interest of these processes going, to be as good as possible. If we have a product that's good, if we have something that's been done, let's not do these budget cuts, this kind of actually brutally affecting the judiciary's budget all consciousness is not on, so I'm not even now telling you about your reforms that you promised, they're not with this one, I'm telling you that you can't keep this state that's now being achieved. You'll go fat under. And next year, justice will be much, much worse than it is now. So we need to find if possible and certainly money is always possible. You know, the judiciary is always the resort that comes at the end and then says where we're going to cut another 100 million, let's take it from the judiciary. Wrong. Because tomorrow someone will come to you and tell you the slow processes are yours and that's why you don't have legal certainty. And you don't have it because you saved your savings here. It's an apparent savings that all the citizens of this country will pay. So I appeal that the budget goes at least to the level he was at last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5220	Thank you. Next in the debate is the distinguished representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5221	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I would like to address in my debate two specific problems that are most visible in my county and in the whole of northern Croatia. The first problem that plagues local self-government units is the problem for us when the mountain-mounted areas were abolished. Namely, the removal of mountain-mounted status created a problem that was only later seen in the budgets of local self-government units. A new indexation according to the development coefficients was made before the funds were abolished by municipalities and cities based on the amendment of the law on regional development as well as the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. Afterwards, there was a huge disproportionate effect and the cities and municipalities, both guilty and debtors, were faced with problems with the financing of contracted projects and at the same time with the problems of current liquidity. The municipalities and cities that have gained the status of mountain-mounted areas have been granted this status due to the difficulty of management in these areas and not from some by-product. In the law, mountain-mounted areas are defined as areas whose altitude, slope and vertical dismemberment of the terrain are difficult conditions for the work and life of the inhabitants. These features are permanent and have not changed in the meantime, and they continue to have conditions for working and living difficulties. Of course, like everywhere else, there are examples of good and bad in the management of these resources. And they're very visible through a new indexation that was subsequently done. The municipalities and cities with their good governance even had a 20% index increase while unfortunately the other municipalities remained on the same or even stagnated. There are examples where, for example, the funds that have been received based on mountain-mounted areas have been used unintendedly to rebuild some other sacral objects or something and we know that this should be financed from other sources. Unfortunately, in the way that this was done, the first change in indexation was done, and only after that, the change of laws was the most affected by those municipalities and cities in which good and carefully managed. Here I have one concrete example of the municipality of Krapina-Zagorje County, the municipality has about 3500 inhabitants, the area is 33 meters square and there is no land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The previous index of development of the municipality was 64% while after the production of the new index index, the municipality grew to as much as 84%. The original budget of 2014 before these changes was 5.5 million kuna, while in 2015 the budget fell to slightly less than 3 million kuna, which is actually a decline by over 54%, which is a truly huge source of finance. What is even more alarming is that the original revenues in the first 2 months of 2016 fell by 10% in that municipality. This has also fallen from the 2015 budget and not from 2014. Following the problems observed, interventions were followed by the Ministry of Regional Development, various meetings and even held a meeting with the president of the Republic of Croatia and these meetings agreed and promised compensatory measures within the country which will remain for the next 5 years but are not now visible anywhere in the budget that you have proposed for 2016. Since municipalities and cities are users of the budget, they have drawn up their budgets and projections based on projections they received from the resolution ministries. After that, they remained without significant resources, and in particular the municipality I mentioned as I had already said without 54% of the income. As public procurement bonds, they opened tenders for their projects according to the budget guidelines and the revenue plan they had in 2014 and which are actually capital for them. They chose the most favourable performers, signed the contracts, and started the works without a doubt in the possibility of funding, but now something quite the opposite happened and they were in trouble. Almost all municipalities and cities that have lost the status of mountain-mounted areas are down. And besides that, the problem is not even paid bills to the real sector. And it's to be expected that this non-payment will also happen. These municipalities also experience a problem when registering their projects to the European Union funds. They also allocated over 10% of their original budget to draft projects, to be ready for EU funds when they open, and now they will have a problem co-financed these projects. Because if there's even 10% need to co-finance unfortunately they won't have all their plans and those funds they spent will fall into their water. I appeal to you that, even as we have stated in the amendment, consider this compensation and put in the 2016 budget the funds to compensate these measures. And I also urge that the development indices that would be made according to the current state be revised as soon as possible. The other big problem is the skates. These slides are, as you know, an elemental accident and they increase at every little bit of rain. The current estimated cost of skating in Krapina-Zagorje County alone is over 112 million kuna. We were patient, compassionate with Gunja and flooded areas in Slavonia, but we feel that now it is our turn. We were promised that after the restoration of Slavonia, we would take care of our rinks. But again, by listing the budget and studying the items in the budget, we did not find any means to resuscitate the slide. In the Krapina-Zagorje County alone, 67 houses that were completely legally built were under threat, with construction permits. But unfortunately, in the area, ice skating and people are currently living on their own responsibility and in the daily fear of the blackest scenario, that their houses simply go along with the rinks. If we wait even longer and bigger, it will take more and more resources to resuscitate these slides, because it will grow and do greater damage, so I also ask you to respect the amendment that has been sent and to put an item on the rescheduling site in northern Croatia. And just another thought of ending it, and it's about high school transport. Let's not do that, let's not cut the ride to high school. As many as 70% of high school students are passengers and these are huge funds. It was expected that after the co-financing of the transport of high school students was included that we would come with time and free textbooks, and unfortunately with what is now foreseen in the 2016 budget and despite the fact that up to 6 months of co-financing remains for us from September to further find the money for children, put it in the budget because we always talked about wanting Croatia's state of knowledge. Where did we go now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5222	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be honored representative of Leon Žulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5223	Honorable President, fellow MPs, MPs. Well, all I'd like to do is supplement the presentation of Puh's counsel on the indexation that's been carried out, which will take five years. When we look at Slavonia and Baranja's GDP on average per capita, the laws relating to the regional support and connection of Zagreb with Slavonia and Baranja, and when we look at this indexation, I would add that it is not only a question of mountain-mounted areas, but also cities that are classified to a higher level of development of the third or fourth group. And when we look primarily at our fellow citizens and companies in the area of, say, a third group compared to those that are slightly less developed by existing weights that affect the index we see one great discrimination I will say first for the citizens and then for the companies, and then for local self-governments who do not have to ask for additional sources of funding from the central government but just return what we had under the existing tax laws. It's for a city of 11 and a half thousand people in Slavonia, say a million and a half kuna. We still have discrimination when we talk about registering for trust funds, applying for EU funds, a series of measures. When we talk about companies, companies in their experience have to adapt to space, they have to move employees from one company to another in order to get a 50% tax relief on profit tax. In Slavonia it is very difficult to achieve accumulation in resources...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5224	Thank you very much. The Honorable Pooh representative will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5225	I'm glad that you noticed this problem, too, and I would appeal to you, among other things, with you being in position right now, to keep hearing from each other and to work first on that change in indexation and indexation audits, and afterwards to return funds to municipalities that have been cut off.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5226	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In 2014, a new Regional Development Act was adopted following a new development index. This law lost about 25 million kuna of Gorski Kotar, Vrgorac somewhere around 16, Sinj, Sinj city I am somewhere around 16, 17. I then personally organised a petition in the town of Sinj where it was collected in the Cetina region somewhere around 10,000 signatures that I sent from the president, ministers of all meaning institutions and who accepted me. So it's good that you noticed this now because it was only two years ago. So, in 2015, the law and municipalities of local self-government were simply touched by this new law, unfairly. Because the city of Sinj can't be the first on the unemployment list and because of the education structure of the population it can be transferred to developed and is the first on unemployment, by economy and all indicators. What's this all about? It happens because it was done in a hurry, which wasn't seen in the indexes, and it wasn't seen in which direction it was going to go. And of course this year we need to do a review of the development index. And of course that's your party's big support and, of course, your party's familiar and then coalition with all of this. I have all the e-mails I sent to clubs as an activist, as a citizen, e-mails to all the parties. Of what they say needs to be decentralized, IDS who have neatly arranged upstairs with three MPs and I'm glad that Istria has developed, which are negotiating with the Most. And we'll support it, and hopefully you'll both support both left and right to do a revision of the indexation that's a disaster this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5228	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Maria Puh, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5229	Here I must say that I am very glad that this problem is recognized elsewhere and by other colleagues because unfortunately because of it many municipalities are also on their knees in northern Croatia. I hope that we will correct this injustice so that they can have the opportunity to continue to apply to European funds. And we know for ourselves if they can't get to these funds, they'll be investing less and less in municipal infrastructure, and unfortunately, it's expected that more and more young people will be leaving these municipalities, going either to bigger cities or abroad in search of a better life. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5230	Thank you. The next debate will be the distinguished representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5231	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues have been here for a long time, this debate of ours. We've heard a variety of comparisons, which is actually a budget, so here's what I'd say. I think we could compare it to CT. When an ordinary citizen takes a CT, he actually sees nothing, when an expert takes a CT, sees everything out of it. Is the man healthy, is he sick? That's probably how experts who look at our budget can tell us what he's like. We heard what experts say, so not SDPs, not politicians, the expert public says that this budget is not reformal, not ambitious without a shift towards serious fiscal consolidation. It is not even strange, it should be understood for both Prime Minister and Minister Maric, it is actually a temporary budget for which there has been no time to make a better budget. And I'm sure there's a budget rebalance waiting for us, so that's why all of our discussions are good. My recommendation is, in fact, Minister Marić that he is already starting to make a new budget. The budget, which will be the real reform budget and which will then ensure that we have what Prime Minister Oreshkovic said he wants Croatia to be a competitive society, to be more economic growth and to make people live better. We talked a lot about education and science here today, that's good. I think that we can all agree with three facts that have been said several times, that education and science are drivers of long-term economic social development, that through consistent implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy on which curricula reform is based, we can ensure that education is improved in quality and optimal availability for all and, of course, what some do not understand is that ensuring the successful use of European funds to strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian education, science. So without it, we won't be able to improve education and science. Why? So if there's a budget that's almost completely fixed, 90%, it's the budget of education, science and sports. And that is why I suggest Minister Maric, as well as Prime Minister Oreskovic, was thinking about whether sport should remain in education and science. It is not a key question, in my view this portfolio should be shared, reformed in a way that we have the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports and that the second portfolio should be the Ministry of Science, Technology and Economy. This is crucial for Croatia's future and thus ensure a link between higher education, science and the economy that currently does not work and will not work if it remains only on the story. What is key to education and science? So, with these three things that have been crystallized today in the debate, it is that education must be made available to everyone on equal terms. And that's why today's debate, which actuated the idea that certain censorships for the inter-urban transportation of students were introduced, proved to be a bad idea and that the budget that we received from Minister Maric and the amendment was not enough. So, he's not enough, he may be some sort of transitional solution here, but in the rebalancing you'll have to provide additional funds or respect our amendment that we have prepared and which provides an unchanged amount for the interurban transportation of students. The second is to improve the quality of education at all levels. The third is to introduce order into the system and, of course, manage resources and resources effectively fourthly. As much as some high-ranking professors, rectors, deans complain they don't have enough money, I'm still saying they don't have enough money, of course, but that money they have doesn't have rational. And it can be proven on numerous examples, but now I don't have time for that. What do the experts say? So here's out of gratitude for the 4200 scientists who signed the petition I'll read what they say in that petition. This is a request to the government and the Parliament to convert science and education from losers to winners. The 2016 budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports reduced by 158 million kuna. Science and education is among the biggest losers of this draft budget. This is actually the biggest loser of Croatia's future. This petition requires the government to turn science and education from losers into the greatest winners and thus preserve hope for Croatia's future. The century in which we live will not only be a century of knowledge but also a century of science. The countries and societies that understood this set education and science as priorities and invested more and more resources in them to make the best use of their citizens of the possibility the future holds but also to participate in creating such a bright future. In the meantime, things are not going well for Croatia. For science and education we have so far allocated insufficient resources and the last draft budget in this portfolio has further continued a negative trend. Science and education are again not among the priorities of our society while at the same time some other parts of the system are largely funded because of politics. It is therefore important to note that this requirement that I especially wish to highlight is not a struggle for the salaries of scientists and teachers but an appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen the developmental component of the scientific education budget. It has just suffered the largest cuts both through the total amount of funds and particularly worrying redistribution within the budget items of the ministry itself. The development of education and science has no alternative, the future of our children has no alternative and therefore we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament to make science and education the greatest winner of this budget, to continue reforming education through curricular reform, the rapid start of changes in the system of science and higher education on the basis of increased competence, internationalisation and accountability towards the wider society and the unsustainable implementation of all the measures and activities foreseen in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. So I said that the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science is almost entirely fixed. Therefore, the effort made by the government of Zoran Milanovic was enormous, so to find 320 million, to find them and to invest in the system of education and science was almost impossible, but it succeeded. That's why it's the idea that these funds get fucked, they redistribute a bad idea because we need to find new funds that we're going to invest in the system of education and science because that's the only way we're going to increase its share in the budget. Unfortunately, in this budget, the stake from 11.5% fell to 11.2% and, of course, that's not good. What I want to say at the end, I would like to appeal once again to accept our amendment regarding the transport of students who ensure that by the end of the year no child in any family needs to break their heads if they can get to school. Secondly, to honor the amendment for a public private partnership in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Kristevska County, to respect the amendment of the Minister, I appeal to you at the Kingdom Hall in Babina Greda because it threatens to collapse. Let this be an example of good cooperation where the head of the SDP municipality, where the mayor of the HDZ, and where we here in the Assembly are going to make a decision that will benefit the children. And of course you get through the budget rebalance whenever he's provided more money to finance science. At the very end, it seems to me how much I managed to track today there were not many words about sports, unfortunately and there is a problem of your government where you do not have an assistant minister of sports. So if we look at your items in the Ministry's budget dedicated to sports, they're not even worked out. What I know in 2015 was the execution of 133 million kuna, the plan was 116. These 17 have been compensated from the 2014 lottery funds. This year we have a budget of 122 million. Fortunately, there's still 12 million in the lottery, so we're actually on the same level. Is that gonna be hard enough? For the reason that this is the Olympic year, for the reason that we are waiting for European university sports games as the biggest sporting event in Croatia's history. So I expect us to win some medals at the Olympics, so it'll take more money. Here, dear Minister, I hope that at least part of our amendments will be appreciated, we in the SDP have prepared 60 amendments with one goal only to make the budget more quality and to ensure that the objectives set by the prime minister so that I can repeat them, ensure the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, ensure economic growth and ensure greater quality of life in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5232	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5233	Thank you very much. You spoke of expertise, CT, budget, etc., and you were the minister who defended the same budgets in this house along with your ministers, prime ministers, and you spoke up for what you were saying at the time. But I'm interested in how it happened to you in 2014 where you were a minister, and then changed to miss the full amount of salary at 12 months for teachers and teachers? How did this happen to a perfect professional government, so eventually it was allowed to change the rebalance, secure the funds, and this government is actually suggested that there may not be even that right to set the first point, the initial part of the budget, and let's see what happens over time and through reforms, but here we have an ultimulatively 60 amendments, so here's what you can do. We have also proposed amendments. Not that the government didn't want to hear about the amendments, everyone was in conversation, i.e. in response, it is not accepted. 100 amendments are not accepted. Well, I think this government is really thinking about everything and it's not going to make mistakes like that to miss a whole one-year salary for everyone in the education system like that happened to you and the amendment solved this part of the transport. And I'd like to know here I come from the island as we can on the island of Rab that we have, so one kind of subsidy that goes through the island law, 35 million kunas for the transport of all students, and then we're still subsidizing it from the state and these same high school students are driving with two carriers in a public competition. Do you think it's okay or that there's something to fix? That's what you tell me as an expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5234	Thanks will be answered by distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5235	Well, here's my colleague, Boric. I'll answer you, although you probably need it to be clear what happened. Nothing was missed but it was known in the beginning that if we didn't do it in such a way that numerous projects would stop, primarily projects in science. So it took 100 million kuna for the Croatian Foundation for Science. And then knowingly risking my integrity and reputation, I agreed to know that at 12 months, there would be insufficient funds to pay but that the rebalancing would make up for it. So, it was a conscious scam from the current minister to ultimately provide funding for projects for exactly what I was talking about at the beginning, which is the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports with nearly 100 thousand paid users and which is pre-set. The same was happening during Minister Fuks and during Minister Primorac, and it simply had to continue on this path to ensure any additional funding related to activities and projects in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. That's the only truth, all the ministers know. And your mock smile only says that you usually sell demagogues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5236	The next replica is the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5237	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jovanovic, I'm glad you guys ended up touching the theme of sports. However, you failed to say two sentences, possibly, which is that in the last two years, the assistant minister led private sports policy. You know well, while you were also Minister before, that the money that comes from gambling, the part that belongs to the development of sports is intended and has always been autonomously shared by the Olympic Committee. I do not want to engage in conflicts between the people of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Olympic Committee, but Croatian athletes must not suffer for it. Despite being a ministerial assistant, he cannot take the right to share funds, roofed to say sports house in Croatia, and that is the Croatian Olympic Committee, that the assistant minister of funds directly determines how he thinks he should be giving funds. Now, we often like to talk here about meddling politics in sports and, among other things, my current function as president of the basketball union and the parliamentary representative is said to be mixing into sport politics. But I think this is a political mix-up in sports, and I think that's something we need to fix. Because I agree with you, this year is the Olympic year. We like to admire each other, paint with athletes when they come back with a medal, but we need to know that medals don't come by accident. The medal is the result of a long-standing hard work, and the peak has also been completed in years in preparation for the Olympic Games. However, if we do not correct the mistakes made towards the Croatian Olympic Committee over the past two years, I doubt that our fellow Parliamentarian Sandra Perkovic and other candidates, Olympic candidates, and my basketball players who have a chance at a tournament in Turin will be able to make quality preparations for the Olympics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5238	Thank you. The esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5239	So, I wasn't in that period when the assistant was Mr. Pasqualin, so I can't speak in his defense. What I know, therefore, was that the funds allocated from Luttria are allocated naturally in accordance with the financial plans of all sports alliances and that there is a simple justification for each kuna that is spent. What I've always said, which I will continue to advocate, so when it comes to sports, they must always be athletes, no officials. And that there were problems with the Croatian Olympic Committee with Sports Television, with certain sports alliances unfortunately there were. We also have court proceedings, we have falsely paid rewards that didn't go to athletes, but they went to some sort of auxiliary staff in an untransparent way. So, what we all think we need to ensure, that the money for sports that the state budget doesn't have much. So this is about 133 million kunas being spent in the most qualitative and useful way and being part of the incentive to attract sponsors to sport, because the total sport in Croatia according to the calculation of the Institute of Public Finance stands out 2.6 billion kuna which we will admit is not small money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5240	And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You wrote the fruit, i.e. You mentioned that you would have a number of amendments to fix this budget. But this government has now received a budget of 100 billion, 300 billion kuna, with a number of unpaid liabilities, with 100 billion kuna in four years' debt. And of course we all have to work together to make it a better budget for you in Rijeka, so do I in Sinj or any other region. But in four years, you don't see much of a move on the territory where I live. And indeed, I believe that these said in good faith, mostly in sports, that I would support you to spend your money transparently. Neither the Football Federation nor anyone spends any money they want, the law must be followed exactly, and here I support you absolutely. But in four years, where have these amendments been in the last four years that you are now counting? Where were they so far? I wish everything you counted out of health care in Sinj had better emergency care, that education was better. You were the minister of education, to have children free textbooks, but they don't. I don't know if they have in Rijeka, in Zagreb they do, and you were a minister. That is why reforms require legislative changes, this budget was created in the 40 days of this government and I certainly hope that you will support this reform government in the future. And these amendments that you listed as a wish list, and we hope to achieve them in this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5242	Thank you. The honourable representative Jovanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5243	Comrade Bull, our 60 amendments show that we are doing our job responsibly. So I think it would be irresponsible for us to criticise the budget here without offering any solution that we consider good. So our amendments are an attempt to help Minister Maric, and wherever possible, we make an additional step in improving the budget offered to us. As for the success of our government, so we did not leave chaos, we left the orderly situation, we left a good base, a base that allows both Mr. Maric and Mr. Oreshkovic to be successful finance ministers, to be a successful prime minister. So our goal is to make the government a success. We live in Croatia and we want everyone in Croatia to live better. It'll work if the government is successful. So far has not proved successful, so much of what you signed together with the Patriot coalition is just a dead letter on paper. So it's up to you, you're the majority, you need to make those shifts of reform that you promised to make us all better. And I will once again tell you that thanks to the resources that I led Croatia today is to a greater extent a society of equal opportunities for all. So it was not easy to secure 250 million in the transport subsidies budget, there were 325. In four years, it's a billion and a half. I must remind you that we have also introduced scholarship fees for all students who regularly meet their obligations. That's another 250 million a year. So that's 500 million a year. That's what we should have found, Mr. Bull. That doesn't fall from the sky. Therefore, today Croatia is an equal opportunity for all, much more than 4 years ago. And what is the best data, therefore, despite all the problems of disseminating science, increased from 0.75% of GDP in our government's mandate, according to EUROSTAT data. It proves to you that despite all the problems of the scientific separation, it has grown so that it continues to grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5244	Thank you. Now the word will be taken by the honourable representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5245	Thank you, Mr. President. A lot has been said here today about the budget, so I'm going to try not to repeat it, I'm going to try as little criticism as possible, but I'm going to show on four examples that this budget is not well done. Let's take it in a row. As for the payment of direct support in agriculture, I don't mind that we board members don't know when it's going to be, I don't mind that even the villagers don't know. I will only remind you that in the term of our government's first war for these direct support went in January or February, and the second war in May or June. Now we don't know when the first wars for peasants will go. As far as we're concerned, I must remind my colleagues that in the last session, we have corrected a great injustice done to the state ergele of the Lipians in Djakov. We put the seat back where it belongs, it's Djakovo. Now that this government has succeeded in solving the dubiosis of the former administration, putting the ergel on its feet, put it on the world map of events now this government takes 560 thousand kunas of ergels. I hope it saves this country. Third, I need to remember the last call and the full mouth of my colleagues from the HDZ on education and how the budget falls. Now my colleague Jovanovic said it wasn't true. 158 million kuna for education in a society where we want to go forward, shame! And finally, because I said I wouldn't last, I can't believe you forgot to put the gentlemen next in the budget. I will remind you, on September 25th of last year in this Parliament we almost unanimously plebiscitely passed the Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod. On 1 October, the President of the Republic has already adopted a Decision declaring that law. No kuna in the budget for the University of Slavonski Brod. What's the message to Slavonia? What's the message to the little universities? Let's take all of them 7%, 10%, 15% and raise Zagreb. I would pray, I went with an amendment with my colleague Jakovina for only 20 million kuna for that university so I could go, so I could work. And that's where I'm gonna end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5246	Thank you. We have a replica of Honorable Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5247	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Tomic, when you mentioned a reduction of 158 million kuna in scientific research and scientific technology positions, so here's a moment when his colleague Bulj rebelled and objected in some way to the many amendments that we gave to the club or individually, but here's the fact that, at the beginning of the day, he was speaking about this amendment, so it seems that this budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports will be saved and their amendment, which they have given together, and where it is proposed to reduce by 15 million kuna to the political parties and to transfer it to the Croatian Foundation for Science, which will greatly compensate for the remaining lack of 145 million kuna. So with 15 million kuna, here will flourish science in the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5248	Here will be answered by distinguished representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5249	My colleague, I really didn't mean to mention this, but now I have to mention it. It seems to me that fellow MOST colleagues will soon be here with the Mandarins saving both education and all the other resources that are slowly ruining and what we have is simply a three-way presidency of incompetents led by their president who counts flies today in the Parliament, his colleague Tomislav Karamark, who is a little lost in all this and the man who runs it all, who came from another country. If we had appointed a prime minister in the SDP who doesn't know the language, what would that look like? Protests would be all over Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5250	They've raised two colleagues in violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is a respected representative of Andrija Mikulić and a respected representative of Miro Bulj. First respected representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5251	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, here is a colleague who has sinned about the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. So if he's nervous, then it doesn't give him the right to insult the vice presidents of the Croatian government. Well, at least it's the minimum culture in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5252	Thank you. You're a fellow Bull, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5253	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 238 demeaning and insulting the chairpersons and other representatives or other officials. Well, this isn't the first time, we're used to even throwing ourselves into the context of MOST and fascists and communists and mostly talking about people who aren't there, it's not some kind of courage, it's just some kind of arrogance. Courage is shown elsewhere. There should be cultural and civilizational conversation here, you can no longer get votes in the divisions, calm down, work in the interests of the Croatian state and Croatian society, there will be time for your and the amendments and possible cooperation and I hope that we will prevent a little together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5254	Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5255	Col. Bulj injured Article 232 and many more articles because he confused the subject. But since I have to say, his president isn't here, it's not my shame, it's his shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5256	This way, I'd like to pray nicely first, but the debate has already gone on its own quite a bit, and I can see that some of them are losing their nerve over it. I'm asking you to be polite. At the very least, we're being polite to each other. Therefore, and not to offend at a personal level, we will continue to hope in that spirit. The next individual will be the distinguished representative of Davor's minors.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5257	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be polite, and I haven't slept all night so I can finish it as soon as I can. The entire 2016 draft budget is a light motif, which is a light motive for hope, hopes that missing funds and missing on many items will be compensated for more dynamic overflows from EU funds. This is, of course, understandable when we know that there are almost 11 billion euros available to Croatia by 2020 and that this 11 billion euros is actually the only healthy and clean money available for the country's growth. However, in order to be able to expect a greater dynamic of attracting funds from the EU funds, it is necessary to do something on the spending side, above all, towards the users of these same funds, in the part relating to the preparation of EU funds documentation, relating to the provision of own funds, i.e. national components, and above all to the part relating to pre-financing of professional funds. Because we know that the Structural Funds need to be pre-financed first in order to get those funds back afterwards. When we talk about the users of EU funds in this debate, I primarily think about the units of local, regional (regional) self-government. to the municipalities, to the cities and to the county. The amendments and additions of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government from 2014 are set out to allocate 1.5% of income tax revenue to help co-finance those projects to which units of local self-government or companies that are in their majority ownership are linked. Thus, this amendment of the law for the first time, along with a geographical criterion which we cannot influence and the criterion of disaster in the Homeland War that ended 20 years ago finally introduces a criterion of number, quality and sustainability of projects, which is, in my view, a basic criterion for withdrawing funds from the state budget to strengthen capacity for withdrawing EU funds for local self-government units. The 2016 draft budget plans a total of 2 billion and 110 million income tax. By virtue of the law, the amendment and addition of the law that I mentioned from 2014 these funds were allocated as follows. 1,673 billion kuna is allocated to the position of balancing or aid for decentralised functions, 53 million are secured in a position to help capital projects of importance for islands, while 30 million kuna is therefore foreseen in a position to assist local self-government units in the mountainous and mountainous areas. And 175 million kuna is therefore foreseen to help local self-government units competing for EU funds. When we look at the total amount of funds and look at these 4 items, it's a total of a billion and 900 million kuna, which means that it's actually 178 million kuna. With almost 180 million kunas, there are 147 million kunas that were not spent in 2015 and were in that position. Therefore, if this budget were indeed affirmative according to the withdrawal of funds from the EU, then, with this 175 million in this position, another 325 million kuna would be provided, totalling nearly half a billion kuna in the position of helping those units of local self-government so that they have projects for European funds. However, there is no such funds in those positions. Similarly, another proof that unfortunately this budget, so the policy of this budget and the policy of this government only declares itself a better absorption of EU funds is the fact that already existing tenders are being abolished and suspended. For example, it is a tender to improve access to the open labour market of persons in an unfavourable position. This measure is financed by the European Social Fund of 85% of the resources and this tender is valid, in fact worth a total of 30 million kuna. This invitation to tender was published in 2014. The last call was on 6.3.2015 and already in June the tender was closed and talks on budgets with institutions and organisations such as local action groups such as other social entrepreneurship organisations began. However, this project, which should have hired 120 women who are long-term unemployed, should therefore employ more women over 45 years of age, should employ a whole range of people with disabilities. The project was stopped at 8.3. So the message to unemployed women was sent right on Women's Day and that 30 million kuna and that project was stopped. So this message, this act, as well as the entire budget, unfortunately tells us that there is no clear desire here to strengthen capacity, to attract funds from the EU. Unfortunately, I can't even vote for a budget like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5258	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5259	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. No matter how late it is, and there's a little excitement in the tones, there's always a chance to say a few things. There I had the opportunity to hear one fellow who said the debate on the budget would be next, ruling to defend, and the opposition would attack. But I would also like to hear what someone is in opposition now if they had the opportunity to manage certain resolutions, which they will say for a simple reason, we are all interested in making Croatia better. There are always three topics to discuss. The first topic is fiscal consolidation, the second topic of structural reform and the third topic of encouraging investment. When it comes to structural reforms, let's be honest. It could hardly have been visible in this budget. For what reason? It is that the budget is due by the end of the month because we have early funding. But what pleases me is I'm glad to see division 076, which is your division of the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, that there are all those things that we started, and that's good. And that Croatia will go forward, when the next ones come and go where they have previously stopped. Let's take it one step at a time. And then when you look at that division that's of course special interest to me, that's how it is. But we really don't see from this budget what structural reforms are, we should see them, we should know them, we should have a hologram, we should have goals and we should have deadlines. But we have to take care of one fact. When you go into major structural reforms, then you have to be aware of something that's vanity. It's hardly that in a four-year term you can see the result. The result will be seen by someone else. But then there's vanity to be blamed and to see what's in the interest of a state, and here we are all in the interest of the state. And then I'm going to do a few sentences about encouraging investment. What I expected from this budget to see, that I would see the beauty of the offer. When it comes to investment, you must have several aspects and ways of financing. If you just focus on funds that are EU funds then that won't be good. A public-private partnership should have left some other things behind, and the question for some projects is how they will be able to finance themselves. You can always tie that to that story about the lottery and the lucky one. In order to win the lottery, you have to fulfill your happiness, but to be able to fulfill it, you have to have something to buy that lucky one. I'm afraid some projects won't have enough resources to buy that lucky one. This should primarily bear in mind what will and will be in this century in terms of investment. And what we see in neighbouring countries should be referred to. Investments that will be and will certainly make progress will be investments related to waste, investments related to climate change and energy efficiency investments. When it comes to investments related to waste, Croatia has signed certain obligations towards the EU, it has signed that if something is fulfilled by 2018 it will then pay for certain foames. 2018 is in terms of investments and investments tomorrow. There are only two waste dumps in the budget that are under construction, which is the Marine and Kashljun extension. For something that has been declared a strategic investment, and it is, of course, related to the waste there is no funds and there you see zeroes that are. Zeroes for some others, other waste dumps that were equally planned and should be further designed in construction. When someone comes to think of it in a way that decides otherwise to take care of the waste, but there is one important illogicality. I'm sorry there is no Secretary of Justice, and I mean the Minister of Environmental Protection and Nature for a simple reason. If you have a lot of investment and you're talking about taking care of illegal waste disposal, and you don't have an investment for new dumps, then it's a useless job because you're going to take care of it illegally, and you're going to get a new legal one. First, we need to build new waste management centers, and then only illegal ones who are or should be shut down, shut down. There's one center that's absolutely zero. 2016, 2017. this is Pishkornica. It's a strategic project, it's a waste management centre in the northern part of the country, and it's about doing these jobs. What I'm saying is there's always the idea of new thinking, and that's why we're here, and that's why it's humane to think. However, some things need to be continued and changed for that. That's good and nice from the budget. A budget based solely on funds that will come from the EU is very different. All those who deal with investment, there's enough of us here, we know what's in construction. What you don't agree to and don't do in terms of investment up to three, four months, you're building season three with these climate conditions and somewhere on the 11th, 12th, and your years are ruined. This in other words means this year in terms of investment and in terms of investment is very, very questionable. And in terms of what we see from the budget is next year. And maybe just a few words because on several occasions there were speeches about the demographic restoration of Croatia, there were talks about what to do. Well, that's one big project. It's about what needs to be given a message, we need to give a message so that we know clearly what we want to do and how we want to do it. What you need to know about something called the white plague, so I was still studying in high school when I went. From 2001 to 2011 30 average municipalities disappeared in Croatia, they disappeared, there are no such people. In 2014, 39 595 newborn children were born. That's 2014, that's statistics. And the measure you only give for the newborn is good. It's good for everyone to get 7.5 thousand kunas, 8 or 10. But what we need to see and what we need to advocate in this House is a whole policy, a policy that also applies to the transport of children in high schools, and to the construction of schools basic that teaching is in one shift and to encourage higher education, and to encourage youth employment. We can do all that if we have investment and we have new investments. And what everyone's full of mouth is encouraging investment, investment, investment. It's the task of everyone, it's the task of this budget. We could see it from this budget, and we can't see it. I must finally say that I am pleased to see the division of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and then all those reforms and all that we have done continues. Reform is not easy to do but you must make sure that in one term you cannot finish it, that someone else will end it. But for this country, it would be good for the reforms that have been initiated not to be interrupted, not to be cut but to have the reforms that one mandate or one government has started regardless of the policies continue and the other government because then we won't have a budget that stands in place or a step back but we'll have something that goes a step forward. And for that we must all stand together in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5260	Thank you. The next debate will be the distinguished Stefanija Damjanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5261	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected government ministers, respected parliamentary deputies and MPs. About the Republic of Croatia's budget, we have come to a number of replicas, a debate of parliamentary representatives who have shown dissatisfaction with investment in education. Croatia must become a knowledge society because we are lagging behind in the number of highly educated EU countries. It is an indication that compulsory secondary education is being introduced in Croatia and there must be certain conditions for this. One of them is a funded transport for all high school students who have been reduced by 30% in the state budget. I call on the government to secure money for the transport of high school students, to even go one step further, which is to provide free textbooks for primary and secondary school students. I'll give you a brief explanation. I've seen that dissatisfaction has national minorities. I come from Međimurje County where we have a national minority of Roma present in large numbers, so that from the Ministry of Education and Sports to the construction of Vladimir Nazor elementary school in Pribislavac where of the 312 students 184 students is members of the Roma national minority, which makes up 59%. The necessary funds to complete the primary school are the amount of 10 million kuna. Thus, national minorities are the concerns and responsibilities of the state. The second problem in Međimurje County is the completion of the sports hall of Orehovica Elementary School, which began construction in 2006. So for 10 years there have been pillars and the county in the last year has secured and spent more than a million and 600 thousand kuna to complete the second phase of the construction of the sports hall. We have submitted the amendment, I hope you will see how important and necessary it is for the population of the Roma national minority. It is the responsibility of the entire society to invest in their education in order to integrate into society as soon as possible and to qualify for the labour market. And next, in Međimurje County, the House of Health currently needs 10 million kuna. I want to tell you that the House of Health in the City of Čakovec is currently divided into 4 locations, in objects that are between 50 and 150 years of age that do not meet the basic standards, some of which are considered protected by cultural well-being. So there is no possibility of adequate reconstruction of space. A suitable space for providing health services has a financial need of 10 million kuna. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5262	Thank you very much. The next debate will be that distinguished goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5263	Dear President, honourable ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As far as the budget is concerned, I can say that it is properly made, it is balanced. However, I will look back on this special part that is far more important to all of us and from which we read certain things. There's been a lot of talk about school today, but it just shows how important it is to us. And we agreed with one. We're all upset that he's in Chapter 80 right now. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Groups of 37th Education took a reduction, quite significant though it was complete, this came about reductions for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I believe and believe that these funds provided for in the positions of the Ministry of Science and Education are not an expense. It's actually an investment. It is an investment in the future, in the future of our children, in the future of our economy and in the future of our country. I come from Varazdin County, we started transporting high school students or co-financing of high school children's transportation back in 2005. This was attended by the county and local self-government units. Of course, when a secondary transportation subsidisation programme was restarted in 2012, with 75% of the price, we were overly satisfied. Because our parents' participation in our bus ticket in the Varazdin County area is 100 kuna while for train 30 kuna. Real prices range from 600 to 1300 kuna. However, there was one way of solidarity and an equal chance for all. So that all students in the Varazdin County, regardless of distance, can attend high school on equal terms. As far as high school education is concerned, 65% of students use this subsidized transport because it's 5439 students. The analysis has led us to the data since this subsidized transport was introduced that the student was more enrolled in high school for 30% of those areas that had previously been unable to attend, i.e. students could not attend high school for that very reason because their parents could not enable them because they had two high school students and paid 2600 kuna really could not. And most often, one child goes to high school and the other stays home. We have also come to an analysis of and survey exactly why high school didn't continue in these areas, that the price of the map is the reason. Here, I'm glad there's this amendment that provides free transportation for this school year. The government claims that for socially vulnerable groups, transportation is secured and... We are aware of this, but we believe that transport must not be a social category. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there should be a principle of justice because property censorship represents everything but that. The system must be set up on the principle of equality and the same chance I've already said. Because if we want to be a society of knowledge, it's not enough for us to provide 7500 kuna for each child, which is commendable, we have to provide kindergartens, we have to provide free transportation, free students, and in particular, where children will be able to attend the quality of that school, that school. We are in Varazdin County, here I keep looking back at this because I know the situation best because I come from that area to start building 32 school facilities which builds and builds schools or sports halls. And that's what we started, and the contracts that were concluded on the principle of a public-private partnership for the construction of these schools are mostly 30 years. When it started, funds from the county and local self-government units were provided. However, there we had an analysis in 2013 where really the Ministry recognized the problem and involved in co-financing of the public private partnership with 55% while 35% continued to be co-financed by the county and 10% of local self-government units in which schools were built. In this budget not only for 2016 but also for 2017 and 2018 in Group 37. Education where the commitment to public-private partnership projects in Varazdin County and Koprivnica-križevci County is not provided for any funds and the necessary funds in this position are 22.5 million kuna. So the same as in 2015 or the following years. I note that on 29 May 2013 the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports concluded with the County ours as well as the Koprivnica-Crisising Agreement on co-financing of rent costs for school buildings built according to the model of public-private partnership. So in these ratios, like I said. Accordingly, the county, municipalities and cities in our northern part also made their budgets for 2016 and projections in 2017 and 18 accordingly. Since there is no such position now, this changes significantly, or worsens the state of our units of regional and local self-government. It will have to give up some projects, have to give up any further funding and investment in education, civil society infrastructure and many other activities. I believe and appeal that this is no punishment for the north for taking care of and wanting to enable your children a quality education and a quality predisposition to continue their work and education. I know that when it comes to public-private partnerships, many people think that it's not everything that's most transparent, that there's something cloudy, that it's not everything that's supposed to be. But I think that suspicion exists first of all because of ignorance. Since our prime minister is coming from the West where it is the usual way to finance such projects, I believe he will consider this situation and that this is actually a mistake that has been created by an illusion that these funds have not been provided. I should also point out that this is all in line with EU public-private partnership directives, that all these agreements and contracts have been checked several times by the State Audit and the Special Budgetary Control of the Ministry of Finance and entered into the register of public-private partnership agreements with the competent authority, of course, in accordance with the applicable regulations. So I'm not going to make another appeal because it's too late, but please consider that possibility, or just return what's signed and what should be foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5264	Thank you. The next debate will be the distinguished colleague of Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5265	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't expect it to be a replica. I'm kidding! Dear Ministers, I congratulate you on the tenacity and my taste of ministers, means economic and finance resorts and really everything is said but we need to highlight a few things that are really not looking good in the projections. And maybe it's a topic that's going to be discussed on some future rebalancing and budgeting next year, but it's good to show today and even so late to keep track of the tone records. So one of the first items that was very easy for me to see is perhaps a dose of impurity. We all said we needed much bigger growth. I'm not talking about the sixteenth, I'm talking about the eighteenth, some trend. And, realistically, we are now planning a growth of 18% of 2.3%. I think we need some greater ambition, especially because we fully understand that in this budget, the effects of the plan of some reforms that will certainly happen with this government are difficult to see, because I don't see what other purpose this government would be. And if we expect these reforms can't be seen in the budget, there wasn't time. It will be seen very likely through an economic programme that you must also present to the Croatian public and to the European Commission I think somewhere before summer, and then we will see what trends and ambitions are for reform moves, because I am convinced that there will be no turning and giving up reforms that, of course, both this country and you and we both want and we want to support. So, unambitious. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2.3% even if I don't mention what we talked about when we came to a 1.6% or 1.8 not enough, we all said not enough. Too slow, not enough. That the plan in the next three years is to raise GDP by 0.6% is not enough people, it's really not enough. I hope you'll be more successful than your plan. Another very worrying thing is, you have a slowdown plan, an important slowdown in export growth. It grew in 2015 9, over 9%, in 2014 over 7%. It was followed by import growth, but slower. And now it's planned in the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth growth of 5%, 5.2.5.3. So planically and it's in government projections we plan to slow down export growth. It's not good to see no matter what happens at 17th and 18th, no matter what I know to be an economic programme, no matter what I know we're going to endure major changes about this, but it's not good to see you planning at the age of 18 people to grow your imports faster than your exports. A little, 5.8% import growth, five points I don't know five percent import growth in the eighteenth year. That, such inambitiousness in numbers, in slowing down export growth, in the GDP that we should then experience at 2.3%, I don't think anyone can be seriously looking forward to. I'll also look back on the items of the Industrial Strategy. The industrial strategy is not a strategy for any policy option or any minister, it is a Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and is implemented for relatively small funds. I think the processing industry in GDP is 16%, 15. 16%, I don't know, depending on the year, but at tourism level, for example. And if we managed to get to a growth that was targeted, which was planned through a mathematical model in implementing the funds that went into de facto directly into fixed capital in that processing industry, then we really need to seriously tackle the implementation and implementation of this industrial strategy as well as the work of this government that is not too expensive, it's really not too expensive. Because it's going to happen, we need a 1% growth, we need about a billion kuna of fixed capital investments. We had 90 million last year, before that 120 million, so times 4 is a factor. So, we're counting on it, so at least we're provoking half the growth with our investments in that processing industry. There's been a much bigger growth, it's 2.6. The real sector pulled more than we thought, and there was an industrial growth of 2.6%. We are today directly reducing the support that goes into fixed capital and return after 9 months. Exactly 9 months from fixed funds to industrial growth can be seen by a mathematical model. Pay attention to that. It will happen that in the last quarter of 2016 and in the first quarter of 2017 if we do not invest enough in that industry, we will have a fall. It won't be dramatic in GDP, it won't even be dramatic in the number of employees. It'll stop productivity, slow down exports, and then the consequences in three years. We don't need that for 100 million kunas. And I know the minister has ambitions to cover it through an operational program that's the only one ready, in my opinion, that can announce the competition relatively quickly from the S3 strategy smart specialization but only now I'm paying attention to deadlines. The competition must be announced immediately. Then we have a deadline for handing over the projects, then we have an administrative check, then we have the evaluators, then after the evaluator we have to sign the contract. If you go tomorrow and you're very engaged around engagements and evaluators, and they're professionals who work fast and administrative checks need to go through with people who are usually under-recipient in about 200, 300, 500 projects that will happen that we will enter the 11th and 12th months and only then will we sign contracts. And it will happen to us that industry will be left without a chance to grow in 2016. And then I want this debate to actually record that if, of course, we're going to put an amendment to it, if it doesn't invest more in the processing industry, we're going to fall, we're going to be surprised. One more thing, we all swore investment, and we, and we didn't put enough into it. We had an Investment and Competitiveness Agency whose budget for the promotion of investments in Croatia was 2.5 million kuna. Macedonians were 20, Serbs had about 5m euros, so 35m, and we 2. Now it's cut to 700,000 kuna. These colleagues from the Investment Competitiveness Agency really don't have the means at all to say us a little bit somewhere to say a good message. And with an unambitious budget where we say that we are planning a growth of 2.3% in 3 years, where we plan to slow down export growth, where we plan for imports to exceed export growth even if we are not working on promotion I see no exits except in major structural reforms, as counterpart Schuker said today at the beginning of the working day that we ask ourselves a question we are ready for them. Is society, politics, government ready for structural reforms? It is not a question of how anyone will perform in the Assembly, it is a question of doing the job that has been promised and that we have all advocated. And someone got it today and a mandate to do it. Of course it's not in the budget. I can understand that it has not been made, that it cannot be shown and that the effects of some reforms cannot be seen. We'll probably see in the projections of economic policy and programme that will be presented sometime in the 5th, 6th month but I'm seriously concerned that we don't finish, now we're going to be a little politicized, not to mention certified statements from the public notary that you're going to promise us growth in 2018 more than 2.3% and reforms that will come in 2025 or 2023. Don't people do that. If you need help, tell me, but we need to be more ambitious and stronger because in the projections that are going to come in three years, it's not enough to make our country as good as we all want it to be. We're all at our disposal and you all know that we can have some experience because no one was born to a minister. To create a situation, a school, an experience, we are all at our disposal both ex and future and formerly to help some of our experiences so that you can be more efficient and ambitious. This certainly isn't enough. And pay attention, and I'm going to call it, 9.5 billion ambitions to pull this year. If the contests don't start in a month and a half, we'll have a debate. I'll take this stenogram out. You'll sign the contracts, the money won't be able to withdraw unless the competitions outside in April of the month, because it doesn't arrive physically because of the evaluators and all the administrative obstacles, pay attention to that. We're going to poop in 2017, and we're going to get the story back to the last government, and it's actually going to be a problem in these months of lost time in preparation for realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5266	Thank you. Now the debate will be held by the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5267	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a proposal for the most important document that we will vote on in this House of Commons. I'll get right to the point and say a few things about the draft budget. This complex budget shows us that the funds for minorities are partly reduced as well as resources for many other areas. It also shows us that reform at least when we talk about minorities because other than being reduced is nothing more detailed than it was before. First of all, I think, and as I pointed out in my last debate when we discussed the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we do not have sufficiently clearly established objectives and bases that would face problems more directly. This is already suggesting that minorities in this budget are not covered by how to think about how to solve their problems, but that almost everything from the previous budgets has been copied and that only the reduced funds are. These funds have already proved insufficient when we talk about solving minority problems, especially those of the Roma community that we are free to say anything. And this way of financing and implementing Roma-led strategies and action plans will not result in significant changes until those official deadlines in 2020. One of the parliamentary colleagues referred to my presentation a few days ago and said it had nothing to do with the Roma but that in our country the helmet in implementing almost all strategies and plans. But should we deal with it? How, then, can I present it to my voters in Roma settlements throughout the Republic of Croatia? Is this a message that we need to send so that our country doesn't solve problems so that they won't be solved even as urgent as they are? I would like to point out here once again that we have certain resources and goals. We know who's in charge of implementation. But we also know that no one will answer if nothing is done as was the case with the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Roma Strategy 2005-2015. I'm afraid that's how it's going to be when we implement the next action plan this year. A good example is the case of the European Centre for Roma Studies, which was formally established last year at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. Many already know that the first bilingual tablet in the Romanian and Croatian languages was set up at the Faculty of Philosophy. That it is at the Faculty of Philosophy that students can also learn the Roma language and culture and that they will soon be able to enter the Master's programme of Roma as part of this turn in the study of Roma culture and language, which has risen from the level of associations to national and international institutions, should also be started with the European Centre for Roma Studies at the academic base for research on Roma language, culture and history in this part of Europe and, if necessary, beyond. In this respect, significant funds were provided in last year's budget with a projection for the period behind us this year. Not even a drop of that amount has been spent. Everything's back to the state budget. Further plans to finance this Centre in the documents we got from the government are gone. I cite this problem, of course unrelated to a government that is not responsible in this case, to point out that no one is responsible if the money from the Roma budget is not spent on what is intended. Or we don't have control of what's and what's done with all that money. Someone, looking at these amounts, would think that the Roma community in the Republic is above average well and that they should not have any real problems. Unfortunately, many believe it seems too much but those who are better acquainted know that it does not seem nearly enough. So other than the amounts intended to address the Roma problem, they are too small. In addition, we have exactly the most problems in implementing and lack of political will to solve problems with 17,000 people. We know that this number is also much larger in practice, but we simply cannot satisfy the fact that we have 3 Roma students in Zagreb or 20 at the state level and this money is spent on Roma education and incentives for Roma students and students. I expect new items in the budget, and I expect that in rebalancing, we will constantly increase resources and implement concrete projects by addressing a burning issue such as the arrangement of the settlement and, in general, bringing order to our country, which is under constant increase because of its isolated settlements in which the most vulnerable members of our society do not live in the way their fellow citizens live. For years, these differences have been feeding the lack of understanding of prejudice and fostering discrimination. I am using this opportunity to repeat that there is not enough funding in specific programmes for the Roma and there is not enough resources for the competent ministries in the sub-sectors to address education problems, in particular employment, housing and urban planning as well as health. These are all broad areas and many wonder why so much should be invested in the Roma. But they forget that it is exactly in line with the National Strategy, which predicts that all these areas will be moved by 2020. This is the draft budget in this sense did not show a commitment to make it all written and implemented and the question is when will it be done. Already small funds are being reduced and the existing ones are not sufficiently worked out in the sub-assemblies whether they are IPA funds or... schools or any other area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem in this sense, apart from the means, is the implementation of everything itself, the absence of the results itself, which requires more emphasis. The Roma community and I expected much more when it came to reform. The other national minorities I represent, too. It now seems that from the major reforms we are talking about the position of the national minority will not come with less resources and without a clear commitment that by the end of the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma inclusion there does not seem to be anything fundamentally changing. We're the only ones here together who can do something. There's not much room for calculations, politics and fighting when we're talking about the position of the Roma community. This government, but each other and as institutions and all others who wish to resolve the issue of the Roma community, will have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5268	Thank you very much. The next debate will be presented by the esteemed representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5269	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when we look at it mathematically, I think it's more than correct. Income, expense side balanced. However, listening to the Prime Minister's opening statement today was quite optimistic. Listening later, the finance minister was more than realistic. Namely, why am I talking? This budget has like all other things your face and face. It was said that this budget was implemented by the reform government, has a direction, a vision and has a pace. When we look at what was said, what were the basic guidelines, objectives, the reduction of deficits, the stabilisation of public debt and economic growth. I'm going to use a little sport jargon, so I'm going to say that this budget is static even more I'd say defensive. The basis for this budget is the implementation of the 2015 budget, with some corrections and an increase solely on the items of those ministries where EU funds are expected. They were more than ambitious. I'd like to, it was mentioned here that this position of 9.7 billion is being verified by a public notary. I'd like more to be realized, but I'd like it to be verified. Also ambitious 17th, 18th 13.6 billion. I agree, and I believe there's no one here in the assembly who wouldn't want to. I'm also convinced that everyone will contribute as much as anyone can to make it real and try to make it happen. But I'm going back to the budget, telling us something else. We look at this budget together in that context as we are and as we advocate and speak. It's primarily politics. On the very day when the government was presented here, when the prime minister spoke, we had a handsome power point presentation that I supported as a model, as a way so fast results in 2016, strategic investments, infrastructure and energy. We see the Minister of Moratorium at all, moratorium at all. Furthermore, 500 million euros activate dead capital. I don't see in the budget the activation of this dead capital of 500 million euros selling or placing state property into office simply or not reading. European funds are in order. Reduce parafiscal loads. What you can see is the trend of increasing tax revenues. There were talks about VAT cuts, no VAT cuts. Of course he can't be! He can't be. Now, the reform government was also said. There has already been mentioned several times in the reforms. We followed very clearly through the media, because it was the only way, we couldn't have any other information, and we couldn't have colleagues from Homeland and colleagues and colleagues from MOST, and it was very clearly written both dynamically and even in neighborhoods and by age. I'll just concentrate, focus, and the example is all education, science and technology. Gradually raise investment in education and research and development towards the European average. It was said that we could hear in the mandate of the last government raised the financial coefficient, i.e. an increase in funding and a certain trend. We now see at the point of the ministry in question a reduction. Then level the terms of free textbooks and free transportation of students at national level. My colleagues and colleagues from MOST and the Patriot coalition have now been able to grow industrial production, GDP growth has created assumptions for reforms, and this has been created by the past government, the previous government as much as you deny it or perhaps make fun of it. You have a historic chance to introduce mandatory high school education. Don't miss it, don't miss it. If you do this, you will have support not only for me but also for the HNS club, and I believe both colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, do so. I think it was presented in the debate how much the percentage of the increase of the students and those who graduated from high school after the transport was introduced. Take a step further. Nice... in Varazdin County, he started in 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know what he did? Today's centres of excellence. At European level, we can boast of that. We're creating a prerequisite. Don't stop it. You're making a mistake. Take a step, do not send a political message to the north of Croatia what you are doing. The suspension of transport was a dilemma in 2008. I think Sanader's government accepted the same year, not the last time in 2009, the thread shut down the transport again. Don't do it three times. For the third time God has helped us in Zagorje, help yourself, help the citizens of Croatia. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia is 5600 kuna, with 3500 to 3600 kuna. The unemployment rate is one of the lowest in Croatia but is the lowest wage. And try to be sensitive to how much that means to the family budget. It's too short a time, there's a lot to say, I'd also like to point out one fact and it's related to both JPP and high school transport. Yes, in 2005, we started with one and the other, the county, the local self-government unit. In 2009, the drop in revenue from 25 to 30% of our local and regional budgets. We lasted until 2013. The last government brought discharge, income tax, citizens got more. By knowingly risking it again. However, the fact is that mistakes are being learned. It was very difficult to predict a reduction in the incomes of certain communities, municipalities and cities, not only in the north but throughout the beautiful ours and Slavonia and the Dalmatian Zagora, the hinterland. You have the possibility of what you've proposed, of advocating now to correct and support our amendments. Our HNS amendment is precisely in the sense that the mistake we've been making is corrected, corrected and supported by these amendments. But first of all, I would like the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am sorry that there is no one here, there is no Prime Minister and much would learn to listen as much as some discussions may go beyond some frameworks, but I think the debate is more than correct. And I'm sorry about many ministers, don't mind me, watching the ministers when they were arguing on behalf of the clubs my observation was that over 65 even 70% of them don't understand what they're talking about. It's a sin, it's a shame. If they were just listening, it's not easy to sit, comfortable, if they'd listened, I believe they'd understand their position in the budget, which they've been reduced, which, at least I don't believe they've been reducing themselves and I can't help thinking that they've been involved in making the budget at all, I don't think they have. Not only because both the Prime Minister and the finance minister, I don't know any of them, we've been reading in the media for 5.5 hours, we've made budgets and reforms, etc. I had the opportunity to work 11 budgets, 11 rebalances and defend just as much and the budget is not easy to agree on. However, this budget unfortunately does not send any political message. He's defensive, static, unambitious. Will it last until 6 months? I don't know. You should consider colleagues and colleagues from MOST because your coalition partners are calling the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5270	Thank you very much. The next debate is that of the esteemed Ivan Lovrinovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. After that, the next debate is the esteemed Mira Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next is a respected representative of Miranda Mrsic. ... Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Almost all economists agree on almost one issue, in terms of budget, but only at one general level, at the level that the budget is the most powerful instrument of economic policy. And that's where the economics' consent ends. So everything I'm going to say from now on is probably going to be economists who think otherwise but I don't blame them because it's natural. First of all, the positive sides of this draft budget. From a macroeconomic point of view, this draft budget directly points to the intention of accelerated fiscal consolidation. The reduction of deficits to below 3% of GDP at this point is a reasonable direction and it is finally a good direction after 8 years. Clearly, this budget expresses its desire to control expenditure growth. They were finally put under the control of expenditures. The ambition of more ambitious use of European funds is clearly expressed. But this is an opportunity, given that there is a lot of talk and talk about European funds, but most of all, the aureola should be removed from these EU funds and I will only be kept on one finding that economic growth cannot be based on the use of these funds, but if they are not used more effectively, it will become increasingly harmful because they are not used enough. Generally speaking, the budget is good, and if there's no rebalancing, it'll be great. It is indisputable that certain risks exist in the implementation of this budget. And this macroeconomic risk due to the risks of economic growth but also the risk of expenditure being achieved mostly under pressure from the amount of wages which is still risky and uncertain. This budget has been prepared under specific conditions and should be taken into account. And under the conditions of a slower formation of government. But it's already time to take all the activities to prepare the new budget. This preparation must contain and take into account all circumstances that make the current situation more difficult. If we just take into account the amount of public debt and the interest of $11.5 billion a year interest of 32 million each day. If we consider that even the level of public debt is not correct because it does not contain accurate data on the long units of local self-government, especially on the debt of companies owned by units of local self-government that owe more than 15 billion kuna. Then we must bear in mind that for the next budget, an analytical methodological principle should be applied even in part in a procedural sense, rather than changing the laws for this reason. I suggest that the government start an analysis of each of the users of the state budget. Make sure that there is first of all a need for the existence of a specific beneficiary of the state budget, how many employees there are and how many employees per user of the state budget are needed, what money is spent on and how it is spent, what is the purpose of the funds, how much funding is needed and what we get from these funds. Are we getting what it's for and the purpose itself exists? It's supposed to be the basis, it's supposed to be the basis for a decision, not a previous year that almost doesn't say anything. Here are just some institutions that I think can be connected or abolished. The office of the former president, every lip was thrown out of lime, and let's not throw those limes away, let alone millions. HAVC, predicted 72 million kuna if it will work as it works, is then thrown all 72 million kunas or not thrown against the Republic of Croatia. And if the HAVC is going to work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, maybe it's worth a little 72 million kuna. That's why we need an analysis. But he wouldn't give this HAVC no lip. Or imagine in 2014 we had 22 million kuna in our budget for the privatisation services of Croatia insurance. It's a direct damage. Let's make up for the damage. But DORH is not interested in millions, the DORH is more interested in thousands. Listen to these agencies, Coastal Line Traffic Agency, Waterway Agency, Agency for Transport and Infrastructure, Railway Safety Agency, Aviation and Railway Accidents Research Agency, Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, Croatian Hydrographic Institute, Pressure Equipment Agency, Agency for Spaces Threatened by the Explosive Atmosphere. Can't any of them sit with each other and each one really has to exist? I think we need an analysis, so we'll get the losing results. No more budget can be adopted without the adoption of the Law on the Payments of All in the Public Administration, so as not to pass the Law on Rights and Payments of Members of Administrations in State Companies and Companies owned by local self-government units, that the same applies to all, not to standardise costs by cost groups, that budgetary bookkeeping must be managed with the dates of events and not with the day of payment. A criminal act must be for one who has not entered into an obligation or a business event. Without a systematic analysis of the hospital sector, we'll just resuscitate from year to year without knowing why we're resuscitating. We just know how much money it takes. Such budgets should no longer come to the Croatian Parliament. Without a change in the tax policy which is an enemy of production, without the reconstruction of the tax administration, without applying the ESA 2010 methodology, without abolishing infancy decisions by governments of so far such as that decision on the purchase of personal cars, without the introduction of income censorship in the implementation of social policy cannot even be obtained free textbooks, free transport, child benefits for parents who have received above average. Without it, the budget should never come to the Parliament again. Imagine that individuals, individuals in Croatia have subsidized interest rates but only individuals in some institutions, there are no laws that regulate it. While others pay 6.8, 10% interest rate some pay 2% interest rate. Because this way, if we continue as we have so far, we'll continue to build a house on the sand, but let's start building it on the rock. Imagine that this budget also includes the costs of an agency that rented 5137 square meters for 170 employees. They don't need a third of that space, and they don't need a third of those employees, but millions are still going. It's all because there's no analysis, this budget is excellent, there was no comment, but for the next one it's unacceptable. An existing paradigm if we continue with it is to kill the state. We have left Croatia with budgets so far, this budget does not leave, it stops leaving but it is time for the budgets to start building Croatia. Without analysis, no analysis of any expenditure from the state budget should be granted. If there's no analysis it'll be hard to get your hands in the air and with analysis it'll be easier to go for. But here's another example when we're already with the agencies or with these, we've got members of the administration who got four million kunas in severance because they gave themselves a contractual breakup and got four million severances and then they go back to the same institution. It needs to be regulated by law, it needs to be disabled. Such phenomena are not harmful, they must be prohibited by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5272	Thank you very much. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5273	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5274	And wipe it out! No, it was a principle agreement not to go to replicas. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5275	There's no deal, the Rules of Procedure allow it to happen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5276	Of course, of course, absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5277	And the occasion is this debate by Mr. Maric. The only real debate today heard from Mr. Maric is his debate, talking about the core of the problem. So all the problems that affect this Croatian state budget, that is, the situation in Croatia, have been said in these 10 minutes, and none of the speakers here are being discussed for more than 10 hours or 12 hours until today have touched this. So that's the problem Mr. Maric was talking about and I absolutely support him in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5278	Thank you very much. We now have the answer of the distinguished representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5279	It's polite to respond briefly to. I thank Mr. Glavas, but I'm tired of hearing that one position needs more income, one less and no analysis whatsoever. That's why I generally talked about the state budget, because it's not only the most powerful economic instrument but also the most important one. It builds and builds or destroys the state. Unfortunately, it can also be destroyed. How to ensure economic growth, and I said, I stressed the risk of economic growth. Well, we won't if we don't change the laws we're going to allow each other to pay. There is too much risk of entrepreneurial activity if no one pays anyone, if no pay is paid, if it is not paid to suppliers, if taxes are not paid, if it is inefficient, the Tax Administration has no economic growth. If the interest rates are 8%, I got two days ago from one bank notice please just call, we are at your disposal 8.40% interest, take as much money as you want. So what kind of business can take 8.40 interest? However, if we do not continue to charge concessions, if we continue to just accept the State Audit reports and stop it, which determines all irregularities and even is directed to the DORH, and the DORH does not keep silent on such a paradigm, the state is not being built on. Just to comb through state audits and have someone more responsible for that. If we had quit once because he did not do what was asked of him, the other would not have dared. But we're used to ineffectiveness, we're used to trouble, we're used to not charging. Well, you can only see the consequences of a pre-nuptial settlement that is. What kind of credit policy is it if 20 companies in Croatia get 2 billion kunas, and they don't have any employees. What kind of tax policy is that if two billion have income and no employee? Connected companies between themselves, I won't say what they're doing, but at least they're cheating on the IRS. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] There.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5280	Thank you very much. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it would be pleasant to listen to fellow Marić with his ideas that definitely relate to the budget and to a budget that should perhaps be different than it is now, so that he should be socially oriented and related to all those categories of Croatian citizens who must benefit from the budget, which means that the budget that supports the economy and the creation of new values must be balanced and preserved by the social state. Because without the preservation of the social state, society will not continue to develop, and on the other hand we will lead to further poverty for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that in this budget that's ahead of us, the savings are just heading towards the most vulnerable. So, according to the poor citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to those who have children and to those who work. The changes this budget offers are aimed at improving the situation of employers, but are not aimed at improving the situation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We all pay taxes, we all pay excise fees, we all pay contributions, and it is expected that one part of these transfers to the budget will return to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not all of them to the employers. It is clear that the culture, i.e. the climate of business in Croatia, should be promoted but not at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not at the expense of the workers. One of the items that has been reduced is the item that is related to the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims, where the item relating to the payment of minimum wages when the employer does not pay the salary has been reduced to only 40 million kuna. Today, on the Committee on Labour and Pensions and Social Partnership, the resolution ministry stated that if there is not enough funding that a rebalancing will be done. However, what about those workers who do not receive their minimum wage until the rebalancing process is adopted. Non-payment of wages in Croatia is an act related to the Penal Code. However, it has been shown that all the measures we have taken so far have not led to improvement and that there were over 60,000 workers in Croatia who work and do not receive salaries. The worker who works and does not receive the salary is a worker who has been pushed below the level of poverty, therefore a law was passed last year which at the time when the employer does not pay the salary blocks that employer and, on the other hand, through the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in those three months may be paid to workers a minimum income, a minimum salary. The application of this law has shown one thing that we have been saying all along that some employers who are used by means of workers' salaries as craftsmen are not employers who need to survive on the market in the Republic of Croatia. And it was true that some employers had the means to pay their wages, but they didn't want to pay for it, but they used it for their crafts. So the workers gave them interest-free loans for a certain period of time. I hope that the Government in this budget will also look at that item and that it will change that item because if there are no funds at the blockade for the minimum claims on workers, we will bring the workers into an even worse position than they are. 9.4 billion kuna is set out in the budget for funds that will come from the EU very optimistically. I think it's unreally planned, the revenue side is high because nothing really changed compared to last year. In this year nothing has changed more, the same people work as last year and this year. But withdrawing funds from the EU is not an automatic process, it is a process that takes place. We are a country that has just entered the first perspective and will take time until this part is fully up and as these funds begin to flow towards Croatia. I therefore believe that the part relating to active employment policy measures, where around half a billion kuna from the EU is planned, is fully unreal and will see that by the end of the year, this part of the funding will not be able to be withdrawn. At the same time, EU funds reduce the component of the budget for active employment policy measures, which can lead to problems in realising this measure itself. This measure has proved to be a very successful one, in particular three parts of active employment policy measures. One is professional training, the other is self-employment and public works. I note that over 60% of young people who have gone through this measure have found work within a year. That 70% of self-employed people remain on the labour market and employ at least one new employee in a five-year period. That we are through public works where we allow those in the labour market to return to the labour market, over 40,000 people spent last year with local self-government through local employment partnerships. Therefore, these funds, planned at 250 million, will not be sufficient to meet these measures fully. And we swear that we want them to stay young people in Croatia, and we don't give them the opportunity to find their place on the labour market and get a job. The government should know that active employment policy measures are intended primarily to create better opportunities for employment and a better position in the labour market for the most sensitive groups such as young and long-term unemployed. By significantly reducing the resources for measures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sends a message that it does not care at all to ensure those categories of citizens the right to work, the right to work, the right to existence and their place of residence in the labour market. Because the message to be sent is sent through the budget not only through EU funds. In order to improve the situation in the labour market, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should know that the active employment policy measures are one of the key pillars of the labour market policy and that the funds provided for by the EU should be monitored with the same level of funding from the budget itself. It is unimaginable that the government rather than ensuring job creation and fostering employment, which is one of the best demographic policies at a time when it is necessary to strongly boost the measures of the innovative policy by this unilateral decision that reduces the resources. I would also like to remind the Government that the existence of young parents will certainly not only provide a one-time fee but also a job preferably safe and quality of opportunity for which active employment policy measures are exactly giving. This reduction of funds means the abolition of the training measures and the loss of opportunities for young people entering the labour market to gain experience and employment. As it warmly advocates the creation of a favourable economic environment for investors and employers from the Government of the Republic of Croatia through this budget, we expect an equal amount of air effort to create equal opportunities for all instead of taking one sensitive category to give it another equally sensitive category of citizens something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5282	Thank you. The next debate will be the honourable representative of Ivan Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5283	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here we got after that strategy a few months ago and a budget here on the table. Here I am going to start with an allegory, one story. There's an old Indian story that says it's about two wolves. One wolf represents arrogance, false pride and greed, and one wolf represents generosity, generosity, and creativity. The lesson of the story is that the wolf of those two constantly fighting wins. The one you feed, the conclusion of that allegory, wins. So if we see all these budget projections and the 2016 plan, we can conclude that they feed the political parties for the government to these 12 million, increases for DUDI etc.. On the other hand, he suffers from education, science, organic agriculture, work. Although some joyous increase in funds for HAMAG or this contribution for newborn children is not nearly enough, of course. That money is spent for a few months and what happens after that? Which is for the next 20 years or more until the child grows up and finishes schooling. So one relatively thin step in this direction again without a strategy because in Croatia we have a chronic lack of strategies. I don't like the spirit of the budget. There's no big difference to the one from last year. As regards reforms, no reforms are seen in this budget, not even announced in the 2017 and 2018 projections. There's no job systematization. It is not explained what will be with HRT, whether it will be restructured or not, we cannot read decentralisation, reform of state administration, units of local self-government, which will be with counties, cities, municipalities or will not be, etc., etc. What he's very keen on about reading the budget is a few unnecessary institutions and I'm going to mention only the former president's office, a totally unnecessary institution to which almost a million kunas per year go, and I can't believe that some of those who call themselves right-handed will raise their hands for almost a million kunas to go to the former president I believe that since the office was founded, he hasn't helped us and contributed anything but just brought it to us. Well, it's not the American president that's the ambassador of his country while he's alive, so it's not the former president's office. Okay, this is on the other hand an indicator and it could have been done, could have been lifted that office, for it was time, it was not something that required long-term projections, analysis, systematicisation, the office could have been abolished and would not have been in projections for 2017 and 2018. So I don't think there was just enough time like the excuse of this left-hand side that's being mentioned today, but it just didn't feel like doing things right. We have proposed here two amendments on organic agriculture and education I don't think they'll be accepted as any amendment to the opposition I'm sorry for because I don't think any amendment can actually save this budget that's nothing new. Croatia is wasting time, we don't have time here and we need to completely reshape our budget and to what we give money and to what we don't give, finally set priorities for what we want and what we don't want. They say reforms are being prepared, well, we'll see, we'll see, but for now with what we've seen business as usual and this Living Wall won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5284	Thank you very much. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5285	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are at the 12th hour of the debate, listening to a lot of debates today, again I would like to touch Mr. Maric's debate. I think Mr. Maric's debate was precisely on the trail of what would have been diagnosed with the problem in Croatia if they could start with a quality budget as a basic document that we all often call for. However, problems are much, much deeper. The problem has been moving since the very constitution of the government, so two months ago. We, on behalf of the HDSSB, said at that moment that we were supporting the prime minister as a candidate and we indirectly gave support to the government. And that's when we said we were going to support it all the way to the budget until we saw which way this budget was going. Here we have come to the situation that today's budget is ahead of us and that we can also draw a final conclusion as to how to put it towards the government, whether with this budget the government has introduced a series of optimism into this Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that we will be better tomorrow. During the election campaign today, the ruling coalition has often mentioned the word reform, reform, reform. They assured voters that today's ruling coalition has prepared proposals for these reforms, however, the first cabinet session has shown that ministers gathered at the first session by submitting a report on the state of play in their portfolios, in the ministries simply do not rule the matter. A significant number of ministers, not all of them in our current current government, then told the first session and stressed that the ministries they found doing their job well, that the completion of these ministries is not 100% but has practically appealed to the prime minister and the Croatian public that there is still a need to hire people in these ministries, that the scope of the jobs carried out by these ministries is indeed so great and huge that it demands the need for additional employment. This clearly demasqued and revealed those new ministers not to rule matter, to bring co-evaluations and qualifications about the state of the ministries but also to expose them to the simple new ruling coalition, whose pre-election rhetoric was filled with reforms and the announcements of reform, was simply a mantra and a wasteful story that they repeated as parrots during the pre-election and after election time, election campaigns and post-election periods. Accumulated administration, bureaucracy is a key problem of the Croatian state, but also a key solution to a quality state budget that will create a presumption of Croatia's exit from this difficult economic crisis in which it is located. At this moment on the national titty, on the budgets of the local self-government units, it will not be excessive if I say more than 230 to 250 thousand people who are either leaning on the state budget and public state systems or are leaning on the budgets of the county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. That's one huge number. When compared to the city of Berlin and the surrounding area according to the population, we can even the city of Berlin and the surrounding area with the Republic of Croatia. And imagine, for example, that the city of Berlin with its surroundings has some kind of administration with a number of employees of nearly 250,000 people. This cannot withstand any developed, economically strong Germany or the city of Berlin. I think the key to resolving the deficit problem in the state budget is the resolution of this excessive bureaucracy, the excessive administration, because over the past 25 years, two of these party cells that have been changing each other in government and the HDZ and the SDP have only used time to take care of their party arrests through the state budget and other public systems. This was happening from the election cycle to the election cycle. So this figure is really scary and the Croatian public simply needs to know. That's what taxpayers need to know what they're paying this country. More than 200 thousand employees in public sectors are people who burden the Croatian state budget with a simple calculation if there is a goodwill, if there is a good will for reforms of the current government, the simple calculation will show where the Croatian state will reach financial savings. I don't think I'm going to go too far if I say that nearly a hundred thousand of these party arrests have been employed by the state administration in state systems, in units of local self-government from county, towns and municipalities, and that this is a problem that this government has to deal with right now. And I agree entirely with Mr. Maric that this must be the last budget to be passed on to his neck like this, on his nose without thorough analysis of where the budget money leaks. If we start with just some average gross salary of theirs, I memorized it by chance. So, the net salary plus contributions that one average such official costs 12,000 kuna per month. And if we multiply that, so 200 thousand employees in the public sector with 12,000 kuna or if we multiply the number of 100,000 that we can say are certainly an surplus in the state administration, public systems of the state, units of local and regional self-government, and we multiply those 12,000 kunas, we're going to get to 2 billion and 4 hundreds of millions of kuna. If we send 100,000 of them to the Employment Service and give them a constant fee to re-occupy, we give them a fee of 3,000 kuna, so the amount of income paid by Konzum workers will remain per person 9000 kuna multiplied by 100 thousand is a monthly savings of nearly 1 billion kuna or a year that would amount to 12 billion kuna. And if this is multiplied by the four-year term of this reform government that wants to be or at least that way, we're going to get 48 billion kuna. Therefore, nearly 50 billion kunas have gone to salaries of any party law that have been employed over the past quarter of the century in the state administration and local self-government and state public systems. So, over four years, the state would come up with significant funding from 50 billion kunas of free funds that could be invested in production and new jobs. No one has talked about it today, no one has talked about it for the reason that a significant percentage of this figure is a 100 thousand electoral body or HDZ or SDP and neither, nor the others want to blame anyone and that is why it is not publicly spoken of today. Mr. Maric mentioned several agencies, so I will only mention one example from Osijek-Baranja County. Agency for the Management of Protected Natural Values in Osijek-Baranja County, it is the full name of the Agency. She's got three employees. She had four employees recently. They spend a million kunas a year. Of these million kunas, 80 to 90% spend on their salaries. The agency was founded in 2005 during HDZ. The government passed a law obliging the county to establish the agency, but also gave them commitments. So when compared to, say, the Office of Presidents who spends 770 thousand kunas and we compare this agency with only one agency in one of the 20 counties, but a superficial analysis will be able to conclude what astronomical savings we can come up with if all expenses and expenses are analysed. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5286	Thank you very much. Next in line is Honourable Representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5287	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues you've stayed with. For 14 hours, I listened precisely to the debates, I did not give replicas because I wanted to hear and give the opportunity to our new colleagues in the Croatian Parliament to say what they think about the new state budget that we have all waited for for a very long time. It is not only the 38 working days of the new Croatian government but it is almost 3.5 months since the elections passed and to the government's agreement, unfortunately still unfulfilled Croatian government today. What made me, this is my 7th budget that I'm discussing in this House, and at one point it seemed to me that we came back in 2009 when my fellow MPs some of the MPs in this House were still talking a little bit alike but in a different way about the exact same, all depends on whether you're an advocate of opposition or ruling. As far as this new Croatian government and the 2016 budget are concerned, I would like to remind both fellow MPs and MPs but also the Croatian public that it was not quite so after the election that everything was clear and clear because we would not have been waiting for a new government for more than 3 months. There was a similar number of mandates between the right and the left, and the one who decided, the MOST group of independent lists and MPs who received a sufficient number of mandates to decide who the future Croatian government would be. Whether it will be this current now or with the coalition Croatia is growing. It's all legitimate. It's legitimate to negotiate, negotiate and choose according to everyone's personal will who thinks it better. I personally hope, I would like Croatia to be better and that this is really a budget that will be a budget change. If it won't be now, when will it be? If we don't, who else is? All the things we heard at the government's presentation I wish it were true. Mr. Maric, the minister who has already participated in making numerous budgets in the former government knows how it works and I am sure he knows what is feasible, which is inexecutable. And probably, he won't say it, but I can do it, it's going to be a budget rebalance because they're not exactly the circumstances they're presenting today. There's gonna be a problem. I wish there were as few as possible. The amendments to be made, the support that depends on the new Croatian government, some more or less, some full of demagogy, some under quotes "the blackmailing", the counting of votes, politics has become mathematics today. Without the number of votes, there is no new Croatian budget, no stability. If the government or the budget depend on only 76 votes it is bad and it leads to an unstable government, to a unstable policy and I believe it will not be so. What I think is my personal assessment is that this is the budget that is the stagnation budget. It's not the reform budget, we'll see about that. We have some changes to the law as announced, and if that is the case, it will be time to discuss it. Mr. Glavas mentioned numerous agencies and one in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. What needs to be reminded of the public is that reforms of the local administrations of the number of counties, cities and municipalities have been announced. I just thought of a little detail if we were to add up 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb only 20 official vehicles that each mayor must have, and then two more that each mayor has, it's about 60 vehicles that go wherever they want every day. They've got three mayors somewhere. So that's the only cost you can add up to so many times a year, they have the right to drive and when it's done and when it's not working, it's only one small cost, but it's important when you put the total mass in so that when you go by the municipalities, by the heads, by the deputy chiefs, by the heads, and by the drivers who drive them, it's not true that it wouldn't save us if we were really going to go into some more serious and some kind of reform that's going to lead to savings. Whether at the state level, either at the level of local administration and self-government of municipalities, cities and counties. There was a lot of talk here today, and it was a pain in the ass to listen to some replicas between clubs. We waited patiently for our turn to argue, but when someone makes it difficult and says the same thing with no conclusion, then you should have patience and nerve to listen to it. However, it listens to this and to the Croatian public and all those promises made, all those messages that have been sent to the government that have taken responsibility and received support in this House of Commons must be realistic. Because if we're going to watch the former government that lost the election how it lost and the new one that won the election how it won, then that should be real. Today we've heard more than once about the subsidies in the carriage of students need to be returned, and I advocate it, but I also remember the former government when the free... The poor students in schools when our HDSSB club gave the amendment to return it when it was also rejected because they were said to find funds on some other items when there was a rebalancing process and there was no such thing. [[You don't understand.]] So there's some sort of scale about what you can talk about the budget. But the very tendency to keep it all down to some kind of story is the budget social, developmental, undeveloped, that depends on which side you're looking at. Because there was a fine line between love and war between this party and the party that decided who the majority of both sides would be and vice versa to the MOSTs who supported HDZ and the Patriot coalition. It's all legitimate and I say I won't belittle anyone's free will. What we expect as representatives of the HDSSB is that our amendments will be made, which are amendments relating to the area from which we come, the impoverished Slavonia and Baranja, which is that we are asking the Croatian government to secure 100 million kuna funds to continue the construction of a key strategic project, which is the Corridor VC, it is a highway that will connect the Republic of Croatia with Hungary, with BiH which is a key development infrastructure project not only for Slavonia and Baranja but for the whole of Croatia. Also agricultural irrigation projects, hydrothermia around the city of Osijek, Podravska highways of 50 million kuna, which is also an important road project. And what's the problem in our neighborhood every year and you who don't live there don't feel and that's the mosquito problem. That's where the financial resources are missing. We have seen the danger of an infectious virus that has threatened our end and this species of mosquitoes has been found in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. These are problems to address the Croatian government and should help Slavonia Baranja. These aren't little amendments, it's about 200 million kuna of amendments to this state budget. But we hope when we defend our amendments that these amendments won't be unwrapped. I mentioned corridor 5C and 100 million kuna for that amendment. That's what we were looking for last year, so the last government turned it down. I hope that this government, which has also promised the prime minister to take care of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, is particularly important to us that Slavonia and Baranja have in the new Croatian prime minister,... The Croatian prime minister had a picture that she didn't have of the past, which is that the latter forgot what he said, and that may have dried his hand if he forgot Slavonia and Baranja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We now believe that when the new Croatian prime minister comes to Parliament on Monday and we read our amendments will have more understanding for us and then some future budgets, discussions and situations we can think about that whoever recognizes the problems of Slavs and Baranjas can be recognized in us as a quality prime minister or an unskilled one who now depends on who has to answer our questions and this is the task of parliamentary representatives because to remind us all of us the new Croatian government has come from this House and we have all contributed more or less to our discussions that someone can be a minister in the Croatian government. We expect an answer and there aren't many days, we'll get it on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5288	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the distinguished representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5289	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and it is as it is only possible at this moment. I am convinced that this budget has been drawn up by some hypothetically large coalition that it could not be significantly different because it is actually conditioned by the macroeconomic imbalances of Croatia and the goals actually standing before us, which is primarily a reduction in the budget deficit, a stabilisation of public debt and a creation of conditions for its gradual reduction. We have heard a lot today from distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of clubs and I as a non-professional, so to speak for finances and economy, I would not be able to add anything special, but I feel a commitment as a representative of the 11th electoral unit, as a representative and political representative of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and finally as chairman of the Croatian Committee outside Croatia to say a few words about these issues. When he saw the light of day this budget I must tell the distinguished colleagues and colleagues here that he caused quite a stir and public issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Croatia, because a certain reduction was observed. So when we look at the total budget for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia that applies to all state institutions, of course included in the Government Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, a decrease of about 7 million kuna is visible. I will therefore, with this brief debate, hopefully try to remove in some way the fear of my and our countrymen in Bosnia and Herzegovina and outside Croatia and explain some things. First, the reduction of some 2.5 million kuna refers to a different modern way of broadcasting radio and television because it has moved on to the Internet medium and thus automatically and... the need to allocate some 2.5 million kuna to cover the cost of satellite broadcasting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second item of this to say the apparent decrease refers to a reduced loan war for the University of Mostar of about a million and 100,000 kuna. So what is realistically a visible reduction in this budget concerns the housing of the exiles of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is what I want to talk very clearly about at this point and in some way to sensitise both the Government and all of us here in Parliament to try to do so in these next days until the budget is passed. So I could never be convincing in a way like the people who live it, because I have not experienced this exiled status so here I will read only two parameters from one letter that I received through the Office of President of the Parliament of one of the remaining 12 thousand Croats in an entity called Republika Srpska, a citizen who remained living in Kotor Varosha at Banja Luka. I won't mention his name so I won't make him any more uncomfortable there, but I'll just read the beginning. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention and focus on a large part of the Croatian people, which has been eradicated, detected and reduced to a minimum and will surely disappear from the political and public scene in 10 years. In 1992, Croatians living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska entity and the 1991 census were 220 thousand Croats and most Catholics. Today 2016, according to some church lists, only about 12,000 Catholic believers living in the Republika Srpska area remain official. I am addressing the Croatian Parliament as the highest political institution in the Republic of Croatia that should represent the interests of the entire Croatian people and minorities as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I, as a Croat from Kotor Varoš near Banja Luka, have been witnessing for 15 years about the terrible care of the Croatian state for a large part of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia. All our efforts so far to change our alarming situation positively with the help of the Republic of Croatia and Republika Srpska entities have not produced any fruit other than numerous meetings, declarations, promises and ultimately disappointments, and the knowledge that we are alone, that nobody cares about us. We have learned from history that many empires of a powerful state have failed, disappeared from the carelessness of their own people and the population, and we fear that what is happening to us is just the introduction of what awaits our country of origin to the Republic of Croatia. So let's not blame the man, because these words are also referred to as critical words towards the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian state because they stem from a deep frustration and the pain these people face. And they're actually accusing whoever did the most. In fact, Croatia alone has helped Croatian returnees, refugees in most parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially Republika Srpska, because the international community has done almost nothing. And I only read this, therefore, not only to criticise those who help but to sort of sensitize and raise awareness, so the interest of the Republic of Croatia itself in staying and surviving Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And of course these 130 million that are allocated to help scientific and health care and rebuild objects is a drop in the sea of what people in Bosnia and Herzegovina need. And I expect true from the Croatian state and from the Croatian government in the coming period ahead of us that not only the programmes of this kind which, I will be fully open, are more appropriate to help a nation who lives as a minority in a country, but to a constituent and sovereign people such as Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, we in general in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially in some parts such as this example of Republika Srpska, are unable to meet all these needs. And of course this help no matter how small she was in terms of needs is necessary and without it it would be even worse. And finally I want to say every investment Croatia invests in Bosnia and Herzegovina in security, political stability is investment and in Croatia's security. Any investment invested in the survival of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is also an investment in Croatia's economic development. I'll tell you just one piece of information that maybe most of you don't know. In 2015, in a trade exchange between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, goods worth 945 million converting marks were imported to Croatia and exported to Bosnia and Herzegovina 2 billion and 400 million converting marks. If we translate it into kunas, this means that the surplus in the trade between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is about 5 and a half billion kuna. So it's on the annual level. And that's why someone bought that stuff. I must say quite frankly, if not for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this relationship would be very different, not only for Croatians as consumers, as customers of goods but also for Croats in political institutions that created regular, competitive conditions so that Croatian goods could enter Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, in the future, these imbalances will certainly improve as the competitiveness of goods in Bosnia and Herzegovina grows, but I also expect the total volume of exchange to increase. And finally, let me just get a few sentences on the presentation of counterpart Salapic, who was talking about corridor 5C. The Corridor of the VC is also an important project not only of traffic but also of geostrategic, political for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, for Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as for the whole of northern Europe because it is the missing triangular arm that Croatia completely shuts down. And not only will the man from Ploč to Osijek arrive in three hours, instead of the current 10 hours, the flow of goods, the development of southern and eastern Croatia and the development of northern Europe, the reactivation of the port of Ploče. So these are all actually indicators that Croatia must make all efforts to finish this project as soon as possible. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And of course to finish, so what he's leaving me, allow me just 15 seconds, The budget cuts for the care, housing of refugees and exiles in Croatia were 4 million in this proposal. [[The President's intrusion: We've already exceeded.]] We MPs elected to the 11th electoral unit will submit an amendment and I expect the government's understanding to return to what we had in 2015, which is 6 and a half million and thus help bring people back.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5290	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be Honorable representative Davor Penic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5291	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues. From the structure of the draft budget, and by reason of the prime minister and finance minister, it is clear that the primary objective of its assembly was to reduce deficits and curb further public debt growth in order to restore confidence to investors. I see the greatest risk in achieving this budget in the projection of economic growth and the activation of state assets, that so-called ". a new privatisation. I see that the draft budget was based on the implementation of the previous budget of 2015 and savings of one and a half billion were made in principle "cut off everywhere a bit". You've tried to properly deploy the victim of budget cuts to all parts of society. However, your technical variant of cutting through the ministries was not good, it was not a good approach because, say, high school students who had their incentive for transport abolished. Or in translation, some groups may suffer savings from multiple ministries. Let's say 39 million kunas were taken off by line sailing, and that's where the students drive. We're an island land and we've cut down capital projects on islands. This sustainable budget should affect at least 2 major expenditure items, the amount of salaries in public administration or some transfers. If you're going to mass pay, you shouldn't cut it linearly. Croatia has exited the recession but not from the crisis showing data on unemployment and low incomes. We advocate the society of knowledge, and we reduce resources for culture, education and science. While the countries we view as role models increase resources for science, they bind science and education with businesses and the labour market to increase productivity, the innovation of their economy. All these changes should be fundamental, meaning essential, deep, not as you offer them, cosmetic, surface, demagogue, because with such changes we will not achieve economic growth. At the end of today's presentation, the prime minister said or announced some reforms, he listed them, but we cannot see these reforms in this draft budget. Reforms or what he calls transformers must be carried out not because of the European Commission's warning but because we ourselves are constantly lagging behind EU members and missing opportunities for strong economic growth in the Croatian economy and society. There are no significant changes on the income side because there has been no change in the tax system. You've frozen the cost structure and you're actually buying time, you've got time to negotiate with the trade unions because of their demand for a 6% salary increase. It is evident that the government was not prepared for this responsible function. It is not enough for the Ministry of Finance to make macroeconomic projections because on the basis of which, when the economic models mentioned in their reforms were not yet designed by the MOST. If you need to cut, then you need to have a good argument about what we're going to cut. Stopping credit ratings can pass as an argument in some expert debate but the general public needs a more convincing, more comprehensive story about this re-enactment. I will now return to the greatest risk of achieving this budget, meaning in the projection of economic growth and the activation of state assets. Where is that 2% growth from GDP projections supposed to come from, where are the risks? If household spending of 77% falls by only 1% of GDP will fall 0.8% and there will be no real GDP growth. Over the longer term, we need to increase investment and exports, or consumption, to increase industrial production and services, and it is crucial to increase productivity in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5292	Thank you very much. The next debate is that of respected Radiir Cacic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk who has, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5293	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Does one citizen ask me if they've overwritten the budget from you? And I tell him how much I know they're not. Some say that even more than the legendary 70% is given, about 85%. So what the government could objectively do in these 36 days is redistribute the remaining 15% of the budget in the best way. And some mistakes were seen walking, I wouldn't even take it for evil because they fixed this transport. Otherwise, I don't think this budget can be called reform but there wasn't enough time to make the right reform budget if we were to be objective. So possibly the rebalancing of this budget can be reformal, we'll see when it comes. This is more pro-formal budget because it should be brought by 31.03. along with some small indications of what will be done further. I think it's also real, so the government objectively in these months couldn't even make any revolutionary changes or procedures. What is possible is the biggest change in the budget that could certainly be public sector wages, and the government has all the instruments there that, within a short time, there have been changes to the regulations, or amendments to collective agreements, either by changing the basics when they agree with trade unions or without agreement with trade unions, they reduce that something, as part of the overall public administration reform if they have the will to make it. Also, when it comes to the mass of wages in the public sector as one very large proof that there is no reform, although it does not necessarily have to be any evidence of that ugly word being caught, and I would once again call on all those who are so talking about public sector employees that their teachers and teachers who taught them at school, police officers working on the street, soldiers who are on peace missions, doctors, nurses are not called arrests. It is not correct for people who earn their bread fairly, whether they are paid out of the budget or not. As for those 15% who can, which the government objectively influence at the moment, in those 15% of the two items as the man who comes from the island, are causing me a certain discomfort and chill. So in the budget cuts, the islands for which the detachments were reduced by several basics compared to last year. First of all, it's the financing of water supply and the shipping line. The budget item for water supplies of the island without access to the water network is reduced by 2 million kunas from 12 to 10 and subsidies for regular passenger and high-speed lines have been reduced by a total of 40 million kuna from 309 to 270 million kuna. It is obvious, therefore, that a little bit more in 2016 is expected to help from the sky, and thus in a way that is a little more rain and then probably foreign aid, which is that the price of oil remains at the same level. Of course, I expect that if the government questions one another, it will react relatively urgently. For the islanders should therefore not be relieved of life, they should be given equal opportunities and opportunities to develop their lives on the island in a way that they are on land. Life on the island by birth or selection must not be an obstacle to the development of the aspirations that modern man has. Finally, wishing that the standard of at least in these two items on the islands does not depend on how much rain will fall, of course it applies to those islands that do not have, therefore which do not have their own waternet or are not connected to the water from the land and in the hope that there will be no reduction of the standards of passenger maritime transport, so there will be no cutting of the number of lines because in these four years, while our government has therefore acted as a government there were early cuts but that part has not been touched, I hope that this case will not be in 2016 either. And I will closely monitor whether, in this sense, these budget items can withstand the existing standard and hope that the government colleagues who are from the island will also do so and that there will be no reduction in standards. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5294	Thank you very much. And the last debate is the distinguished representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5295	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I answered the debate, and so it was during the last budget that we individually discuss several financial plans that no one has mentioned alive today. And they're spending about 27, 28 billion kunas. So it's very interesting that no one today, and because someone probably didn't put the topic on the media, doesn't care what the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute looks like. They assured us that miracles would happen when it was taken out of the treasure. However, if we are representatives of the Croatian Parliament, this is a clear hoax to both the past and this government of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, satisfied with such a financial plan that someone like this will spend 22 billion, so 22 billion 330 million and 429 kuna and will spend so much. The same story is with the 2017 and 2018 projections. And no one talked about it today because, of course, the CNB agencies are very interesting, etc., and here we're talking about 22 billion, and we're all talking about the standard of our hospitals, no one today, I'm practically the only one in the name of the club talking about that this system currently owes about about 3 billion kunas that aren't shown here. And now, look, the documents provided by the Ministry of Finance in the budget's reasoning say that the HZZO has the obligations of 400 and some million kunas not charged. But when you look at their plan for 2015, then you'll see that... And my thinking is still that this has to go back to the Treasury. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because far more transparent was the budget of the health care ministry of what we're going to call it than it looks today. The second is the financial plan of the Croatian Roads. So Croatian roads have a 10.5 billion kuna debt and Croatian highways have 32 billion kuna debt. And now all of them are doing science, all of it will fail, monetization, this, that, however, no one cares that Croatian roads have 10 billion kuna debt, that we gave them 20 limes from Croatian highways and the same thing we gave to Croatian railways. And in this way in 3 years Croatian highways took 2 billion and 400 million kunas. Also look at the financial plan, so does not any of the parliamentary representatives have any interest in which and whose road or bypass will be made, whose road will be restored? No, that's not interesting, and in the end, it doesn't even say it here. There's only so many hundreds of millions written in the dwarves, etc. The next financial plan is Croatia's water, 3 billion and 100 million. Did anyone talk today about the channels, about the embankments, about the master's waters? No one. Now look at colleagues and colleagues of only Croatian water and Croatian roads are an investment of 5 billion kuna. And if we in this House were to discuss them differently in these financial plans, we might be interested and when there's a report on the execution of what these money was spent on, it might be quite a generator of economic growth. Because along with the resources of the local self-government units, then it's a hooch. However, we never about this... I know someone's funny when it's said that Croatian waters have 3 billion and that no one can discuss it alive in this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] CERRP, if you have seen from the Ministry of Finance documents on the income and not the liabilities charged on 31.12.2015, you have seen that there are at least three billion and sixth obligations of the CERP for the companies that are placed there. But nothing. The insurance agency for savings deposits just look at this figure for the first time in 15 years, the agency is down, and this is a message to all those who even touch the financial system that would happen to Croatia that one big bank in the financial crisis has failed. Here a small bank local found itself in trouble and look at it for the first time in 15 years after the Savings Deposits Insurance Agency was down. And I'll finish with that, so the budget debate ends before 2400. Thank you very much. Bull, give up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5296	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5297	Thank you, Mr. President. I have less than 60 seconds to thank everyone. First of all, to congratulate you on the most persistent, bravest you've ever stayed until these late hours. So, 14 and a half hours of discussion. We heard I'd say a lot of comments, arguments, a discussion that was constructive in the good part. And here, allow me on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, on your own behalf to thank you for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5298	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point and we move on to the next point Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and projections for 2017 and the 18th year with proposals for financial plans for 2016 and projections for 2017 and the 18th year of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. The debate is closed. During the debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment and it became an integral part of the State Budget proposal in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. First, before voting on the whole budget, we will, of course, declare on the amendments tabled. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. Amendments to the three Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Democratic Party were not submitted in accordance with the Budget Law, so they are not included in the review of the amendments and we do not vote on them. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. So first, we will amend the number one Club of Representatives of National Minorities, Club of Representatives Bandic Milan 365 - Party of Labour and Solidarity and Representatives of the National Minorities of Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj and Vladimir Bilek, Club of Representatives of the SDSS and National Party of Reformists, Club of the Croatian Initiative for the HRID Dialogue and Independent Representative of Shandor Juhas and the Club of Representatives of the IDS of the Primorje-Gorski List for Rijeka and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the proposed amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted because the planned resources will be sufficient for the implementation of all activities of the Professional Service of the Council for National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5301	I'd like a vote on that. On behalf of the Proposer? Here's Honorable Representative Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5302	So I'd like to ask for an explanation which is why this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5303	Now the minister has given it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5304	I'm not happy with that answer, and I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5305	So, of course, you're asking for a vote? Yeah, here. Please allow us to approach the vote. So who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't accept? I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The second amendment is the Club of National Minorities Representatives, the Bandic Milan Club, as well as the first that I do not read all over again. Please state that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5306	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that the activities and programmes for national minorities at the position of the current donation are sufficient funds for the settlement of all activities or activities of all national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5307	Does the promoter want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Representative Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5308	I'm not happy with this argument either, and I'd ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5309	Please join the vote. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The third amendment is that I don't read them again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5310	The amendment is not accepted despite the fact that, of course, the Government supports the European Centre for Roma Studies. However, he did not have any execution during 2015, so we do not accept it accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5311	On behalf of the Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5312	I must say at the beginning that I am immeasurably sorry that this government has not seen the importance of supporting the work of the European Centre for Roma Studies at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb. I am also sorry that the leadership of the Faculty of Philosophy did not take advantage of the past budget, because on one occasion he missed the opportunity to use 700 thousand kuna for the European Centre for Roma Studies, and then 800 thousand kuna for reasons known only to them. In parallel, nearly 300,000 euros of money offered by an open society in Budapest collapsed. I find it particularly unclear that new funds for the European Roma Study Centre should not be provided for in this budget but should only be transferred to what has not been used. Missed support from Budapest recognized this project as praiseworthy and advanced even before it was realized. That we have managed by chance is certain to raise everything to an even higher level. I'm interested and I'm asking everyone in charge of how this money is better targeted now and how better these funds will be spent. It is very good to have all the laws, contracts, and documents that speak of the need to improve the situation of the Roma in our society. But if such a commitment is not accompanied by both the means and the exact bases in the budget as it was, then all of this remains a dead letter on paper. You can see that even when we have a precise set-up, even then, as it was in this case, the funds are not used. I wonder why this is so and why this government but also the Faculty of Philosophy does not support the work of the center that was formally formed? I've sent countless memos to the university, and so have some of the government's offices, and to this day we have no answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5313	Thanks, time's up. The question is actually for the last government, but I ask you to join the vote on this amendment that the government does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5314	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5315	I assumed that's why I was right away. Okay, the amendment didn't get enough. Next, the Fourth Amendment is an amendment of the same proposings so I don't read them again. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5316	The amendment is not accepted. As part of the budget for the Ministry of Culture, we believe that the proposed funds amounting to a million kuna are sufficient for the publishing institution "EDIT".
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5317	Dear Shandor Juhas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5318	I'm not happy with this either, and we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5319	Please join the vote on this amendment which the Government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is the 5th Amendment of MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5320	The government does not accept this amendment. A brief explanation, by the final proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, of all the counties that have resident in their territory who have obtained the right to an increased personal deduction, was planned to assist in the level of return of income tax to citizens who came out in 2014, which should have been carried out on the burden of the county budget. These aids are exclusively compensated to the counties so that the relief granted to citizens from the assisted areas would not have an impact on the reduction of income from income tax on the county's income. This model of distribution of aid is the result of an amendment to the legal rules that have been in force since January 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5321	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we're not happy with the answer. In fact, when we talk about Osijek-Baranja County, we are talking about a county that has been extremely affected by both war destruction and the economic crisis, and now by evicting so much talk about. It's one of the county's losing its population. That's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5323	Please join the vote. Who's in favor of accepting this amendment that the government doesn't accept? I find that the amendment has not received enough votes. The 6th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5324	The government does not accept this amendment. The units of local self-government to which this amendment would grant aid fall within the category of mountain-mounted areas which, in view of their development, have lost the status of the assisted area and which, in the previous year, had the right to transitional assistance due to the loss of that status. As in 201, the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government have permanently resolved the status of these units have lost the right to transitional assistance. Please also allow, as has been discussed in the plenary section of the session or spoken, we will definitely access a specific revision and correction of the development index of all units of local and regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5325	Thank you. On behalf of the amendment promoter, would anyone like to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Representative Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5326	Dear colleagues and colleagues do not agree with this argument. So last year, by changing the indexation and amendments to the laws that occurred, there were huge disproportionate differences between planned and achieved revenues. I request a vote on this amendment and I also appeal to those parliamentary representatives from the following municipalities and cities to vote in favour of the amendment. So it is the town of Ogulin, the Municipality of Bistra, the Municipality of Đurmanec, the Municipality of Jesenje, the Municipality of Novi Golubovec, the Municipality of Radoboj, the Municipality of Lupoglav, the Municipality of Motovun, the Municipality of Karlobag, the Municipality of Šabar, the municipality of Čavlje, the municipality of Delnice, the municipality of Fužine, the municipality of Željine, the municipality of Klana, the Municipality of Lokve, the Municipality of Matulji, the municipality of Mrkopalj, the municipality of Ravna Gora, the municipality of Skrad, the municipality of Vinodolska Municipality, the town of Vrbovsko, the municipality of Dicmo, the municipality of Klis, the municipality of Primolj, the municipality of Primorski dolenac, the town of Sino and the town of Vrca. Here, I appeal to parliamentary deputies who are attached to these areas to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5327	Thank you. Let's approach the vote. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. We are now going to Amendment 7, Minister of Economy Tomislav Panenic, and Amendment 7 was proposed by representatives of Peđa Grbin and Sinisa Varga. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5328	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not accept this amendment because, in accordance with points 3 and 4. Decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the recasting of the company Immunological Institute d.d. in a health care institution from 30 July 2015 The Ministry of Health will provide funds for the transformation process. This also follows from the Regulation establishing the Immunological Institute. Since the transformation was not completed in the previous term, the Government has determined the dynamics of the conversion from the company to the institution and has provided sufficient resources to start and prepare production in at least one small part and then to continue the expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5329	Honorable representative of Sinish Varga, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5330	We don't accept this argument. In fact, the decision to reshape was made in July 2015. The Ministry of Health has great responsibility for continuing operations of the Immunological Institute, the State Health Institute, but is also dependent on procedures carried out by the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the State Administration of State Property Management. Namely, all responsibilities for the immune institution d.d., i.e. the stock company is located in your hands of the minister. And we, the Minister of Health, are responsible for continuing production as regards the Immunological Institute as a state health institution. I suggest that this amendment be accepted and suggested unless you accept that we also join the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5331	So, the honourable representative is asking for a vote. Please vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The vote is over, I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now, EU Regional Development and Funds Minister Tomislav Tolusic will further explain, so Amendment 8 submitted by representatives Bozo Ljubic, Ivan Suker and Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5332	Honorable MPs, respected ministers. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5333	Thus, the amendment becomes an integral part of the budget. Amendment No. 9 Clubs of SDSS Representatives and the People's Party Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5334	The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment No. 9th won't accept. We understand and respect the need to realize the right to rebuild as well as the final completion of this process but the current capacity of the office itself is not enough to absorb additional funds as seen by the executions last year. Since 2013, since the office has been singled out from the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, it has intensively implemented several projects under the regional housing programme requiring further engagement of existing employees and the implementation of demanding administrative procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5335	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5336	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. As you know, 24 million 54 thousand and 222 kuna for the remaining number of housing units in the war of destroyed or damaged housing units, houses waiting for the renovation of reported 12 years ago, so in 2004, it's 1500. If we were to be sure that this 24 million kuna would be enough, we wouldn't tolerate this amendment. Therefore, if you have the opportunity to deploy funds within the budget during the year and realize what is needed, we will withdraw the amendment. If you can't give us that guarantee, we'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5337	Okay. Please approach the vote. Who is in favour of accepting this amendment that the Government does not accept? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. Ten. SDSS and People's Party of Reformists' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5338	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to make an amendment no. 10th won't accept. We understand the need to realise the right to housing and post-war recovery measures of the area of special state care but at this point the proposal is rejected in view of the lack of existing administrative capacity of the office as well as the ban on employment, which does not make the absorption of additional funds certain. We're going to reorganize the office, and I believe that then we'll find both capacities and everything else, and at the moment this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5339	On behalf of the amendment-proposing Member Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5340	Dear Mr. Minister, both you and I agree that these 4 million and 900 for the remaining 3,000 applications submitted, the 500 requests waiting have a positive solution and are waiting for the realization to begin, of course, not nearly enough. But if, on the other hand, both you and the Government and we representatives are aware that this is not just a matter of commitment to the citizens who have submitted these requests but is also part of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia which is causing the Republic of Croatia to receive funds from the Bank of the Council of Europe under the Regional Housing Programme. And if you guarantee by your argument as you have said that during the year will be secured in the redistribution of funds to increase this amount, then I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5341	So you're withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much. We will now again ask the Minister of Finance of Honorable Zdravko Marić, please, Amendment No. 11. The club of the representatives of the Most and Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5342	The amendment shall be accepted in part. It is accepted in the amount of 500 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5343	Thank you. Is he a proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5344	Here on behalf of the motionary, we agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5345	Thank you. So the amendment has been partially accepted, and therefore we do not need to vote on it. Amendment No. 12. Representatives' Club Bandic Milan 365 Labour and Solidarity Party, representatives of the national minorities Ermia Lekaj Prlaskaj and Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5346	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds at the 2016 Department of Defence are higher than those planned for 2015 by 32.9 million kuna and will be able to implement all planned obligations of the Ministry of Defence with rational spending of budgets. Allow me also what we said on the Committee on War Veterans in the plenary session that surely all rights of Croatian defenders under the existing legislation for 2016 will certainly not come under question, or will be executed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5347	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5348	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Here was a difficult decision to make about it, but this is really about the needs and care of the Croatian defenders. this amendment and provide people with their permanent rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With your firm promise and Mr. New Secretary of Defense, I'd say we'll share responsibility together. And it's really worth giving us a chance to get it real this year, because there won't be any other chance. So I will withdraw this amendment and I truly trust you and the Secretary of Defense to say that it will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5349	Thank you. So, the amendment retreats, so we won't vote on it. We will now hear again Mr Tomislav Panenic's Economy Minister in connection with Amendment 13. HNS's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5350	Thank you, Mr. President. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the amendment is not accepted. As is known, the Republic of Croatia has accepted, taken over the obligations to restructure the shipyard and the Ministry of Economy has provided funds for the settlement of these commitments. Since the practice so far was that the funds could not be provided, so by factoring, they were well transferred to the future period, which was at the expense of the shipyards themselves and they showed their dissatisfaction and wanted to be helped in the full amount as per the contract. As regards this part of the implementation of the industrial strategy, the economy ministry will make special efforts to encourage entrepreneurs and, in fact, institutions to report more intensively, that we do not have a situation to actually be parallel systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5351	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS or the Proposer, the honourable representative of Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5352	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and colleagues. So the intention of this amendment was to implement the Industrial Strategy. It's not a strategy. It's not a strategy. It's not a strategy. It's not a strategy. This is the Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Because, finally, in the last two years, after a long time of trouble, we have some positive trends that are not enough to raise industrial growth in this country. In order for industry to grow at rates of 2 and 3%, say 2%, we need almost 2 and a half billion investments in the same industry in capitalization of the company, in fixed capital. The state has to be the initiator of that. And here was just the intention of our 90 million kuna last year when we achieved industrial growth, to secure in this year some larger funds to implement the Industrial Strategy. Everyone but absolutely everyone in this assembly is thinking that industry should be an engine of economic growth and we won't get to economic growth of three or more percent if we don't have a strong industry and there's no reason for some 50 or 90 million kunas to have an effect that the real industry is carrying 16, 17% of GDP. It can be much larger in the revenue side of the budget. As far as the shipyard is concerned, the shipyards can be monitored through the guarantee program, through cheaper guarantees, through cheaper funding, and that's what we've been doing. And because we followed them something that was not binding in the contract, they also accepted that they were covering the cost of factoring because we covered them many times more through HBOR's activity their costs incurred and in the end, all of our delegations went to all the countries where we agreed and we personally struggled with our diplomacy for their contracts. This means they can also be helped to a different effect and I ask parliamentary representatives to pay attention, there will be a drop in industrial production at the end... 16th or early 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what no one wants. Thank you very much, and I want a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5353	Thank you very much. So you're asking for a vote? Yeah. Please join the vote. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Thank you very much. I will now ask the Minister of Entrepreneurship and the craftsmen of the esteemed Dark Horvat in connection with Amendment 14. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5354	The Honorable President, distinguished parliamentary MPs, the government of the amendment under regular number 14 does not accept. There are two reasons. The first is the technical nature, since it is impossible, in accordance with the Budget Act and Article 38, to relocate the funds from the items that create limits and deficits in the state budget with items that do not do so. And just for one piece of information, so on the planned item, strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises related to loans to beginners, so micro-credit we found two new sources of funding. These two projects are moving forward, but no longer originally from the state budget, but the StartCo project will be financed from EU structural funds, and for the second project, Pressed, we found a source of funding in the World Bank loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5355	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're not satisfied with the explanation. The HAMAG BiCRO Programme is credited with entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, thus allowing its easier development through access to finance for micro-enterprises. The programme allows micro-enterprises to be set up and the growth of newly established loans to be used at a subsidized interest rate. The estimated increase in funding would provide a significant contribution to boosting the promotion of youth employment and the launch of new entrepreneurship projects. The programme also allows micro-enterprises to be set up and the growth of newly established micro-enterprises with loans to be used at a subsidized interest rate. Young entrepreneurs are the cornerstone of development and employment, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5357	Thank you very much. Please join the vote on Amendment 14 which the Government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. Thank you. I will now ask the Minister of Culture, Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic in connection with Amendment No. 15. HNS's club. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5358	The Prime Minister, MPs and MPs, the Prime Minister, does not accept the amendment. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme in culture. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. The programme for the construction of the concert hall in Split is registered for the Ministry of Culture competition and will be discussed and a proper decision will be made. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget law shall be submitted to amendments proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft state budget and projections may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. Moreover, Article 46(5) of the Law provides that the appropriations cannot be redistributed between the income and expenditure accounts and the financing accounts. In that case, a simultaneous increase in expenditure and a reduction of expenditure is proposed, i.e. a redistribution between income and expenditure accounts and financing accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5359	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5360	Dear President, we are not satisfied with the answer, or with the rejection of the amendment. In fact, this is about building and maintaining the equipment of cultural institutions. It is specifically about the concert hall and investing in the concert hall in Split, in its construction and arrangement. In fact, it is one project that was launched at the time of the former government and it is now the Ministry of Culture with more than half the resources needed for the project and the construction of the project has been funded and it is expected that such a large project for the city of Split will be included in the budget as a project that will be implemented in the coming period. We see from the budget that only two projects that are new projects are singled out under this article. We believe it is not correct or wrong that the project that the Ministry of Culture started and co-financed that it de facto kicked him out of this item of editing or building such a concert hall in Split and that it introduced two new projects entirely. We are looking for a vote on our amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5361	Thank you. Please join the vote on Amendment No. 15 that the government doesn't accept. Who's in favour of this proposal? I find that the proposal has not received the necessary majority. Next, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture, the esteemed Davor Romic, in connection with amendments to 16 of MP Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5362	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's position is not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5363	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5364	The Ministry of Agriculture, in accordance with the available means and in terms of rationalisation of budgetary costs, planned the financial plan for the period 2016-2018. The reduction in expenditure on the activities of state ergela Djakovo and Lipik decreased by 7% compared to the plan of the previous year, resulting in a detailed analysis as well as recommendations by the EU Council for reducing the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5365	Thank you. On behalf of the proposing natural representative, Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5366	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected and esteemed ministers cannot accept the reasons for not accepting the amendments. The budget of the state ergele Đakovo, which is the pride of Croatia and has been very stable for many years with a steady increase in the activity of the ergella business, among other things and a new amount of food production that they started to do in 2014 and 2015, to make their jobs less than 8 million kuna as much as they had to 7 and 400 are considered inappropriate. We must not be the only object we are proud of when the royal family comes to us and something that we send as a message that the Republic of Croatia is extremely important to us, but we must show it in the budget as well. Cut the ergels, and have nominally almost 250 million kunas higher budget than the previous year I find it not serious. I'd like an individual statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5367	Please join the vote on a proposal for this amendment which the Government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is the 17th Amendment of MP Damir Tomic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5368	Thank you very much. The position is for the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept the amendment. The explanation, given the importance of state ergele both for Đakovo and Lipik and the whole of Slavonia and for the entire Republic of Croatia, because the only ergel that has been able to preserve the tradition of horse breeding in Croatia for centuries, while respecting the recommendations of the EU Council for reducing the budget deficit, the Ministry of Agriculture has been planning funds for the activities of state ergele Đakovo and Lipik in the total amount of 7 million and 440 thousand kuna, which was 7% less than planned in the previous year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5369	- Does the promoter want it? Yes, go ahead. Dear Representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5370	Thank you, Mr President, Your Honor, I highly doubt that the Council of the European Union has said that you are reducing the very citizens' ergele. My predecessor Tihomir Jakovina gave a good explanation why this reduction really doesn't make any sense. I was more modest, so I just asked you to return the amount of funds that the ergel used in 2015. I would like to remind here that the HDZ government has already made a huge injustice to State Ergela Đakovo once after she moved out of the ergele headquarters for over 500 years and it was a shameful move that the former SDP government had corrected with coalition partners. Ergela finally stepped on her feet, stabilized the years-long minus, and now HDZ's government is hitting Djakova again. I don't know what HDZ has against Djakov, but I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5371	Please join the vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. The 18th representative of Branimir Glavas and Josip Salapic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5372	Thank you very much. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted. This project was designed in 2016 to complete the production of a study documentation whose production is under way in accordance with the present Agreement on subsidising the development of an expert review of the eligibility and feasibility of the multi-purpose hydrotechnical system for water and land management Osijek. And from making studies, the influence of the multi-purpose hydrotechnical system for water and land management Osijek. This ministry participates in co-financing of the 10% total project. Other financiers are Croatia's electricity industry with 37.5% and Croatia's water with 37.5% Osijek-Baranja County with 15% total. Depending on the results of the study in question, Croatia's water management plan will provide funding for further activities on the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5373	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5374	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister, I understand your argument but of course as representative of Slavonia and Baranja on may be satisfied. This has been many years since the start of work on this project since '97. We have invested about 60 million kunas and perhaps more and the total project is worth 3 billion kuna. I don't know what pace we'll be at, given that the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Electricity and Croatian Water and Osijek-Baranja County are co-financed. I think that you, too, Mr. Minister, but our strategic goal should be agriculture, and that's also important for you and Slavonia and Baranja as a agricultural area, these irrigation projects are very important, so I'm not satisfied with the explanation and I'm asking for a vote on the HDSSB amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5375	Thank you. Please join the vote on Amendment 18 which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is No. The 19th representative of Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5376	Thank you very much. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The amount of EUR 2.6 billion allocated to the 2016 budget is set out in points 819058 of the GSP to direct payments to agricultural producers and 820058 of the rural development measures. In paragraph 1, direct payments to agricultural producers from the planned 2.2 billion kuna will be paid for a production year of €472 million, which together amounts to a direct, paid advance in November 2015 of €750 million from the same item in the 2015 budget amounted to €2.2 billion. The rest of the 2.6 billion kuna will settle with the items... 820058 of the Rural Development Measures in the framework of the implementation of measure 18 under the Rural Development Programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Help Croatia participate in financing direct payments. In this respect, it is noted that the 2016 budget plan is also planned for the direct payments to agricultural producers and the amount of advances for the 2016 production year amounting to 775.9 million kuna which can be paid to producers after 15 October 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5377	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5378	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I am dissatisfied with the answer, or I did not expect you to respect the amendment and increase the item for direct support. I confirm once again, you yourself said, the amount of funds planned in this budget for direct support is based on the production year 2014 which was paid in 2015. These funds are lower than we paid for in 2015. I welcome the aforementioned advances and the model of advance payments already in the current year. That's something we paid for in 2015 for 750 million. And in January of this year, these funds sat down in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia because they concern the funds we are withdrawing from the EU. I'm unhappy with the amount as probably our farmers but I'm much more concerned that back a few years we're on, simply created a model of payment support according to the law in two parts, in two wars. The first part of January/June, the second part May/June. Our farmers are waiting for this support, they will be reduced. The amendment was not accepted, so it will not be increased. But then we hope you find opportunities and pay off your support as soon as possible. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5379	Thank you. Please join the vote on Amendment 19, which the Government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 20 of Honored Representative Ivan Sincic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5380	Thank you very much. The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept the amendment. In particular, environmental agricultural production activities are replaced by aid for organic agricultural production through the rural development programme as planned through the activities of the CAP rural development measures. This activity provides for payments in 2016 for organic agriculture from 2015 totalling 218 million kuna, which are co-financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development with 85%. The planned 350 thousand kuna on the T820053 activities of organic agricultural production is intended only for payments under the adopted complaints of users on the basis of open rights in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5381	Thank you. Proposer, distinguished representative Ivan Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5382	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not happy with the explanation and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5383	Please join the vote on this amendment number 20 which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 21 of MPs of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5384	Thank you very much. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted by reason other than the state budget of 40 million kuna for the 2016 public irrigation project, of which 62 million in the Water Management Plan of the Croatian Waters, and an additional 3 million and 800,000 kuna from the budget of the unit of regional (regional) self-government is the total amount for public irrigation of 106 million 987 thousand kuna planned for the implementation of the public irrigation project in 2016 is based on the realisation of the existing and planned service and work contracts, and is the same sufficient for the planned dynamic implementation of this programme for 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5385	Thank you. Honored representative Tihomir Jakovina, the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5386	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister. I can't be satisfied with your explanation. Back in four years, the previous government spent a total of about 400 million kuna on irrigation projects. In 2015, you had 80 million kuna in that division. You have cut that item by 50% regardless of the cumulative increase in the entire budget you have in the proposal and therefore this amendment. And in previous years, on the funds that we planned in the distribution of the Ministry of Agriculture, we had on our budget funds that we tied from Croatian waters, from other sources. Here there is the possibility of a well-planned strategic document of the Rural Development Programme and the significant withdrawal of funds in the EU budget on a scale of four. But I am not satisfied and I cannot approve such a drastic reduction of the planned funds since you have listed irrigation in your pre-election promises, but also in strategic guidelines as one of the most important reform requirements. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5387	Please join the vote on this amendment which the Government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment of 22nd Representatives Branimir Glavas and Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5388	Thank you very much. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this amendment is not accepted. In 2016, a total of 18 million and 404 thousand kuna were planned to be invested for the development of a project documentation for public irrigation systems, of which 14 million and 500 000 from the state budget of T568108 and 3 million and 904 thousand from the budget of the unit of regional and regional self-government. Total planned investments increased by 2 million and 284 thousand kuna compared to the realisation in 2015. The amount planned for this year is based on the realisation of existing and planned service contracts, and the implementation of the funds is sufficient, the resources provided are sufficient for the planned dynamics of the project documentation for public irrigation systems in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5389	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5390	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Ministers would have been good if I could have followed you as quickly as you read the explanation. But since I know what folklore is like in budgeting, you're against it, and we're asking to vote on this because our county is one of the few that currently has 12 projects of the irrigation system. And also everything that I've partially managed to catch stands, but the slow process in this project is exactly why we're looking for this amendment, and I believe that next year when you might need our voice differently then we'll talk about these projects. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5391	Please join the vote on this amendment number 22, which the government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 23 of Representatives Branimir Glavas and Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5392	Thank you very much. It is the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this amendment is not accepted. Explanation. National aid for the construction of a public irrigation system shall be in accordance with the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020, through a measure of 4th investment in physical assets, sub-measure 4.3 of support for investment in infrastructure related to the development of personal... or by adapting agriculture and forestry provided at the position of A820058 of the Rural Development Measures. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5393	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5394	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, given the two previous amendments in this regard, this is a completely different situation, 85% of the funds are provided from the EU budget and 15% from the national component. I could understand why she didn't understand this. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5395	Please vote on Amendment No. 23 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is to the 24th Representative of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5396	Thank you very much. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this amendment is not accepted. In the draft financial plan of the 2016 budget, the Croatian Agricultural Agency planned a total amount of 63 million kuna in 2016, of which 33 million relate to the resources of the state budget entering the budgetary limit. The Croatian Agricultural Agency shall finance only salaries for the regular work of employees and contributions to compulsory health insurance and compulsory insurance contributions in the event of unemployment. The funds were planned at the level of implementation of the financial plan in 2015. So, no additional burden on the state budget. All other resources in the draft budget for the Croatian Agricultural Agency relate exclusively to the means of use and purpose of which are laid down by specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5397	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5398	I thank the chairman. My dear Minister, I must again show dissatisfaction with the amendment's refusal. It is not a problem Croatian Agricultural Agency because it has been proposed to remove but rather a significant reduction in the resources provided for by the Agricultural Land Agency. I will repeat once again with great satisfaction, attention and support on the home Committee on Agriculture we have listened to the presentation of your guidelines for the work of the ministry where you have actually presented the reform guidelines in three packages. It is one creation of a strategy, another land reform, third EU funds. In this way, a very demanding continuation of land reform in the area of putting agricultural land into operation, irrigation, comassation, demining and all of those jobs that we need to do and reduce by 4 million budgets most important or one of the most important agencies, we believe that it is not good and it is questionable how much reform or all that is drawn up and what should be done to continue the positive trends of 2015 will be managed with such a cut-off budget. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5399	Thank you very much. Please join the vote on Amendment No. 24 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment of the 25th Representative of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5400	Thank you very much. Here is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept this amendment. The reason is that no project has been prepared for the land of agriculture. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not have any information on the impact of the trade in both economic and technological terms. Therefore, when the Agency for Agricultural Land is responsible for carrying out the commission, it will provide accurate data on the financial impact on State budget funds, the Ministry of Agriculture will find a solution for the development of a very important project for the organisation of the agricultural space in the Republic of Croatia and the redistribution under division 060 of the Ministry of Agriculture will provide the necessary resources. Investment in the Food Quality and Safety Centre strengthens Croatia's role as a leading country in the wider region in the control, verification and certification of food origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5401	Thank you. Honorable representative of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5402	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers of Commerce, one of the reform guidelines you have listed is extremely important. You mention the lack of projects, for 25 years there was no law in this country. This esteemed House passed a law last year, established framework guidelines and how to work the preparation for the commission. Pilot projects have also been prepared, and you know as well as I that a multi-annual plan and annual plans are to be drawn up, on the basis of which the EU budget will be made throughout the Republic of Croatia and for which we will withdraw the money from the EU budget. This cut is almost 50% in that item, and it will take you and your associates about 10 million kunas to prepare all these multi-annual bases and plans on which to withdraw funds from the EU budget, I find it quite irresponsible and irresponsible. So since the amendment has not been accepted, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5403	We would like to vote on the amendment of the 25th Representative of Tihomir Jakovina, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. I will now ask the Minister of Regional Development and the EU funds of the respected Tomislav Tolusic and first in connection with the amendment 26. HNS's club. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5404	The view is for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be amended no. 26. does not accept for the reason that for the activities of Croatian island products the sums are doubled compared to the execution in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5405	Thank you. In the name of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5406	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers. It is a single amendment that we want to encourage the visual labelling of island products with the label of the Croatian island product. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The island law is defined. The project was launched in 2007 with the desire to encourage island producers in the production of original and quality products. The label may be used by all island producers, namely legal and natural persons established on the islands and carrying out their activities on the same island. Similarly, in terms of the product in terms of the promotion and better placement of island products on the market, it is quite important that it is indeed so because it is about products originating from limited island sites and it is about small series. Keeping in mind all of this, equally so that we could incentivise self-employment, innovation, innovation in order to raise quality and visibility of original, traditional and ecological island production. Therefore, we ask that the above-mentioned amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5407	Please vote on Amendment No. 26 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I figure he didn't get enough votes. Amendment No. 27 Clubs of Representatives of the SDSS and People's Party Reformists. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5408	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the above amendment is not accepted. On the activities of the K680040 Fund for Co-financing of EU projects. On line 3631 of the current aid, an amount of 10 million kuna was planned to co-finance ongoing projects which we currently consider sufficient in view of the financial situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5409	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5410	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Mr. Minister, one of the most important, one of the most significant budgets of this government is the EU funds. One of the most significant components in general in revitalising our economy is the EU funds. Now, if you with 4 million kunas think that over 10 or 15% of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia who do not have their resources to produce projects and project documentation will be able to participate in redistributing those funds that I hope we will withdraw. If you with 4 million people think that 10 to 15 municipalities will have enough capacity to withdraw those funds and if they were involved in it at all, I would support you. But I know as well as you will soon find out that this 4 million has no chance, not 15% or 10%, but 1% of the municipalities to get funds. And for that reason, we remain about increasing by 6 million and something to make at least 11 million available to municipalities to produce the necessary project documentation. Otherwise, you will put them on the market for those who will earn money instead of the state helping them. We will not help them, and others will earn them. Those who don't have money will just go further. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5411	Please, let's vote on Amendment No. 27 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for the amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The following is Amendment No. 28. SDSS and People's Party of Reformists' Club of Representatives. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5412	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to make an amendment no. 28. does not accept the development of assisted areas the activities of the Mountain and Mountain Development Fund have been opened and the planned funds amounting to 30 million kuna in this year. This will not compensate for the damage done to mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of special state concern that was done last year, but I hope that this will at least help in some segment and compensate for the damage done by the previous law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5413	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5414	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. You yourself come from an area below the average level of development of the Republic of Croatia. So all of Slavonia including your part of Podravina, including a good part all the way to the Adriatic Sea, so from the Danube to the Adriatic Sea are areas where people need state help to get on their feet. In the last term, the government ensured it and it was one of the good measures. And I don't understand why I don't stay with that measure. In the meantime, you're increasing your shipbuilding subsidies. Who and why? For 400 million kuna. And here you can't provide 10 million kuna. Who and why are you increasing the shipbuilding subsidy? Aren't these people worth it to get the support that they can live there and survive? Or we can keep complaining about how young people go there and now that we have a chance to stop them, to revitalize our undeveloped ends, now it's hard to give 10 million kunas. And here you protect these 400 million kunas. I hope you'll have a good reason to protect them because we'll have a good reason to keep defending, that people have a chance to live in decently developed areas. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5415	Please vote on Amendment No. 28 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 29. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Sabine Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5416	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to make an amendment no. 29 won't accept. The funds for the island's water supply activities are planned on the basis of annual average consumption. So if you happen to spend something and more government will provide it but I say the funds are planned on the basis of average annual consumption and that's why they are in that amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5417	On behalf of the proposed representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5418	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. More than just this reduction, or worse than the reduction itself, is this explanation that you said. So you don't plan as you promised to increase investment on islands, to increase island development and birth on islands. Here's what the Patriot coalition has been saying in the course of the election: "We will re-implement a policy suitable for the islands. We will not, as others, reduce the means but increase them." Do you know what it means to islands of water? It means life to them. Do you know that only on one archipelago only for a small four islets is spent 780 thousand kuna a year on hydrogen alone. So now I ask you, where on the islanders did you intend to save? And it's not savings, it's a gradual destruction of the island, and the islanders have the right to live on islands or you want islands without our islanders. Is this a reform, Mr. Minister? What kind of reform is that? Because you were saying exactly the opposite. It's a rescue for our islanders. I truly believe that after this, our islanders, if this is the salvation you promised, will stop wanting to be saved from you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5419	Please join the vote on Amendment 29 which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 30. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5420	The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that Amendment 30 is not accepted. The island's activities and development are planned 2 million kunas more than you did last year, so as far as it's done, we've increased by 2 million kuna. I would also say that these projects and activities can also be financed from the activities of the Capital Project Fund of interest in the development of the island where the planned funds amounting to €53 million are planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5421	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Nestrel Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5422	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to islands, then the population living on the islands today should be kept in mind that it is in principle an older age. In order to ensure the conditions for young families to remain, we need to provide infrastructure on these islands in about the way it is on land. Thus, water supply, disposal systems but infrastructure includes public facilities kindergartens, schools, sports halls. We therefore wanted to help with this amendment in a way that increased funds for the stated purpose. Since this has not been done I ask nicely to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5423	Please join the vote on amendment number 30, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 31. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5424	Government of the Republic of Croatia's position as regards Amendment No. It is 31st that the amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are planned in accordance with the needs of and at the level of last year's executions, and we are planning a new island law that is very necessary to redefine these measures by way of a basis which will determine the future way of implementation and the need and purpose of these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5425	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5426	Dear colleagues and colleagues in this respected House have been discussed on several occasions about islands, it has been discussed in a way that needs to be done and what policy to ensure that the population remains on the islands and that these islands can be done properly. From these amendments given by the CNS, we have therefore given one amendment relating to product labelling in such a way as to encourage production. The second amendment referred to infrastructure development, and this third amendment refers to measures that would allow employers to employ people more easily and easily, so that young people remain on the islands without leaving the island. That's why I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5427	Please join the vote on amendment number 31 which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Thank you very much, Minister. I will now ask for the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Honored Oleg Butkovic and first in connection with the amendment of the 32nd Representatives Branimir Glavas and Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5428	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Amendment number 32 of the Government of Croatia's view is that the amendment is not accepted. Corridor 5C of the A5 border highway with Hungary, Beli Manastir, Osijek is a project of Croatian highways d.o.o. which is not financed from the state budget. According to the proposed business plan of the Croatian highway company d.o.o. for 2016, and in accordance with the 2016 Road Construction and Maintenance Plan, the financing of works on that 5C corridor amounting to EUR 114 million, of which 86 million is intended for shares from the border with Hungary to Osijek, and the rest of the stock is planned to be built through EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5429	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5430	Mr. Minister, I demand a vote on this amendment, expressing my disagreement. I understand that they are funded from the Croatian highway budget. However, I believe this is of not only national interest but also of international importance. And because the government had to provide funds, additional funding from the Croatian State budget we have the fact that the bridge is near the end. Almost a billion and 500 million kunas have been invested in the bridge, that bridge is not going anywhere. Hungary has not yet built ten kilometers of highway for the reason it is waiting...... Mr. Chairman [[You can't hear it.]] warn Milinovic to stop yelling. [[/Intruder President: Please! Please!]] Hungary hasn't built a 10km highway yet for the reason it's waiting... Mr. Chairman, warn Milinovic to stop yelling from the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Hungary needs to build another 10 km of road and condition the completion of its share just by completing the section from Osijek to the Hungarian border. [[Please, please. Here you go.]] And I believe that the Croatian government needs to provide these funds to at least start building at least one tape. It is a project of international importance and Croatia must do so. And that is why we insist on adopting that amendment because the moment Hungarian Prime Minister Orban turns the phone and calls our prime minister, that money will certainly be secured. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5431	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 32, which the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next Amendment No. 33rd representative of Branimir Glavas and Josip Salapić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5432	Government of the Republic of Croatia's position on Amendment No. The 33rd is that the amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is not accepted because a quick road of Varazdin-Koprivnica-Virovitica-Osjek-Ilock has been built and remains in the design and construction phase. And it's a 15-mile-long Varazdin bypass built the first phase. Second, Raslinja-Koprivnica length 18.6 km in progress is a study of environmental impacts. Thirdly, Koprivnica-Virovica length 52 km in the phase of creating a spatial and traffic construction study. Fourth, Virovitica-Suhopolje 9.5 km in the construction of the first phase in the 2016 plan of 45 million and 484 thousand kuna. Suhopolje-Slatina stock 23.2 km under way is an innovation of environmental impact studies. In 2016, it plans to move forward with further project documentation. Slatina-Our 41.8 km and a projected environmental impact study. Najce-Chepin 35 km, an environmental impact study is under way. Nuštar-Vukovar 8 km is under way to create ideas and main projects for making local and construction permits. Vukovar-Sotin 16 km, complete documentation was made and one part of the building permits was issued and the rest were under way. Vukovar-Tovarnik-Ilock 29.3 km, in the phase of creating a spatial and traffic construction study. The 6km Ilocka bypass was built in the first phase. The funds for the construction of these shares are planned under the Croatian Roads Financial Plan d.o.o. as an out-of- budget beneficiary of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5433	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5434	I also don't accept your explanation and explanation. You listed this series of data to simply try to find arguments that these funds are not needed for what we're proposing. I demand a vote, express my disagreement, express my protest towards this government and my relationship with Slavonia and Baranja, and announce that the HDSSB will not support your budget, and neither will your government in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5435	Please vote on the proposed amendment No. 33, which the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. The 34th Honorable Representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5436	It is the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the amendment is not accepted. The funds co-financed by ports of county and local importance were planned through the activities of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Ministry. Construction and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in ports open to public transport of county and local importance and modernisation, reconstruction and construction of fishing infrastructure for 2016 amount to 37 million kuna. We recall that several years ago, the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, co-financed by public transport sub-building facilities opened for public transport from county and local importance, is granted on the basis of a public call on which the Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure makes a decision on the allocation of budgets intended for the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in public transport ports from the county and local importance by which contracts on co-financing of individual projects are concluded. The same practice of allocation of funds to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia will continue in 2016 to 2018 on the basis of a public call from the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. In this connection, the proposal is rejected to provide Luka's administration with a separate position to finance the building of the pulse shore. We further point out that the Pula Port Authority has been part of the withdrawal of funds of this position for the development of county and local ports for several years, and therefore we see no reason why the same practice of the Luka administration would not continue in the period from 2016 to 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5437	Thank you. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5438	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Minister. You have already stated in your explanation some of the reasons why I asked for this item to be directly included in the budget. This is about one multi-year project, a project that didn't start yesterday, and a project that will continue to work for many years. Because the rehabilitation of a port that was built over 100 years ago is not working overnight. Everyone from local self-government, port administration and state participates in this project. And I wanted to ensure that this project at a pace as it began to continue on. It's obvious from what you said existed for this project of danger. I've been looking not only for a special part of the budget, but also for that explanation on over 1200 pages if I'm going to find the item I'm looking for here somewhere. I didn't find her, and that's why I asked her to be listed in the budget. Since you don't accept it, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5439	Please join the vote on Amendment 34, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 35. HNS's club. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5440	Government of the Republic of Croatia's position on amendments No. The 35th is that the amendment is not accepted. The establishment and implementation of maritime goods borders with the exemption relates to the assistance of all coastal counties with regard to co-financing of the implementation of certain technical bases, geodetic real-state images, orthophotos, geodetic embodies necessary for the procedures for the determination and implementation of maritime goods in cataster and land books and for damages to legal and natural persons in the case where the competent State Attorney's Office adopts a decision on the authorisation of maritime goods in which the authorisation is borne by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. In this context, the proposal is not accepted to co-finance island products in the framework of activities aimed at implementing the maritime good border policy of the Republic of Croatia. The planning of funds co-financed by island products is the responsibility of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, not the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5441	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5442	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you may have misunderstood. In fact, the HNS does not belong to those who claim that the maritime good line should be established along the entire coastal line because it is extremely irrational and unreasonable. But what we hold really important is that the border of maritime good is established wherever there is a legitimate, not only public interest but also the demands of landowners and units of local and regional self-government. In this particular case, we have so many requirements for establishing borders that do not come at all on the agenda because of the slowness of the administration and because there is not enough resources. And it is precisely the fact that in many of these situations the non-determination of maritime goods is manifested as the main brake of local development on the islands because it is land that is mainly currently in agricultural production. So the island product does not occur anywhere but on the island and the island is mostly extremely bound and dependent on the maritime good line, so it is produced in this area that needs to be resolved and in which the line should be drawn. Since we have a whole series of requirements and that the process is going very slowly and that in any case slows down the development of the island and local entrepreneurship and prevents the development of the island product there is therefore an indirect link. But I'm sorry that the government doesn't understand it and that it didn't actually predict more resources to the team anymore because we suggested that the funds be reduced precisely to funds for economic co-operation because they proved ineffective and we in our court should avoid further involvement of the public sector through this programme. In that sense, I express the dissatisfaction of the club and beg your vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5443	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 35th that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next Amendment No. 36th representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5444	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to make an amendment no. 36th won't accept. The planned funds amounting to €270 million shall be sufficient for the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, Infrastructure through a coastal line and maritime transport agency to meet all commitments made for 2016 in accordance with the signed concession contracts which provide the same number of ferry, boat and speedboat lines and the same frequency of travel as in 2015. In particular, it is important to note that the fuel price used by shipowners has fallen significantly compared to 2013 when concession contracts were concluded with shipowners, which affected the decline in shipowners' operating costs. The signing of the contract annex will reduce the need for State budget support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5445	Thank you. On behalf of the proposed representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5446	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the fuel price is now rising again. However, what is certain by reducing all these items relating to the standard of living of our islanders is certain that it will fall. It's only for sure and for sure. It is certain that this reduction will also reduce or abolish the ship's lines, which are ferryy, which are ship's, which is off-ship. And even when we combine it with all those reduced items, Mr. Minister, I'm telling you I know you do, but you may have gone somewhere and looked away, and I believe it's hard for you, too, because you probably know what life on the islands means, so not only is this reduced, but subsidies for economic development are also reduced, for the development of the island. [[I hear it, I hear it all.]] This warns you of both the island council and the island development association but you persistently pressed to save on the islands. You criticized the former government to treat the islands with stepmother, if you see your move, not with this frequent reduction, you reduce wherever you reach the islanders so that you don't behave, this government, what you promised to be their mother but not their stepmom. So that's how our islanders become your nachos. But the question really arises is whether if you continue this way, you will be able to keep your life on our islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5447	Are you asking for a vote? Yeah. Please join the vote on Amendment No. 36 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I will now ask the Minister of Science, Education and Sports of the Honorable Predrag Šuttar, please, please, regarding Amendment No. 37th Representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5448	Dear MPs and distinguished MPs, colleagues and fellow ministers. I especially welcome the new Secretary of Defense. Amendment 37. Explanation. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed, and the proposed funds are sufficient to realise the planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5449	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5450	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, when we talk about education problems first and foremost high then we're talking about a small number of students who chooses to study technical studies. And I think that encouraging students to deal with technical culture, learning more about it, and eventually studying these technical sciences should be one of the specifics of our education policy. If you consider that in elementary school from 5 to 8 grade students have only 35 hours of annual technical culture that comes down exclusively to theoretical, theoretical knowledge, learning about theoretical knowledge, which would mean that throughout primary education they meet with 140 teachers hours of technical culture. I think it's not enough, especially if you keep in mind that many who continue to study in high schools no longer have contact with technical culture except outside of teaching activities. Therefore, I think that 200 thousand kuna is actually one symbolic amount that would encourage development beyond teaching activities, a technical culture that would ultimately result in a larger number of students who are determined to study technical studies. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5451	Let's approach the vote on Amendment 37, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. We now move on to Amendment 38 of Honored Representative Sabina Glasov.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5452	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed, and the proposed funds are sufficient to realise the planned activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5453	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5454	Your Honor, I will request a vote on the proposed amendment because of the dissatisfaction with your argument. Therefore, the funds intended for exceptional results in education and technical culture were reduced by as much as 55% compared to the funds transferred in this item in 2015. In this way, and with your explanation, I think we're sending the wrong message, which is that the education system is not, in some way, not rewarding, but not respecting excellence. Let us not forget that this item hides funds for the Ivan Filipović prizes, Luka Ritz, Faust Vrančić, whom we actually give recognition to those excellent in the system that by their expertise, work, pawnage and perseverance actually contribute to the improvement of the educational process, the reputation of the teaching profession. But also through this award, let's say Luka Ritz gives an incentive to promote tolerance and schools without violence. Please vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5455	Please join the vote on Amendment number 38, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next Amendment number 30. The HRID representative club and the independent representative of Sandor Juhas. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5456	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed, and the proposed funds are sufficient to realise the planned activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5457	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Irena Vuksanovic Petrijevcanin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5458	We're not satisfied with this argument because it's not really an explanation. But of course we'll ask for a vote even though it won't be meaningful again. What's a bigger problem than you don't accept the amendment is that at all, the Ministry of Science and Education doesn't have any sustainable model when it comes to basic and secondary education textbooks, and we know that the text of the textbook is one of the worse and larger items in the budget of each household. So you have a situation where the city of Zagreb and some richer cities of course finance textbooks for all and those who need and who do not need to take care of property censorship and social categories. Therefore, textbooks as such should be equally related to property censorship, should be deployed in a sustainable model and should actually be one of the measures of family and intelligence policy. The situation is that for social categories in poor cities you don't have for textbooks, and I said in richer cities those who don't need them get. So why doesn't he have any systematic access to it at all, and this is just about that category. So it's only about 4 million kunas. Therefore, it is necessary to consider this in the long term. Now you can consider this pathetic, but actually these are facts. So now we can come home to our children, come home and say we voted against your better future and your education. And what's also the fact that every four years new textbooks change, are printed on finer paper and minor cosmetic changes. So now I'm asking you who's doing this? Just publishers. We're looking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5459	Please join the vote on amendment number 39, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is the number 40 of MPs, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5460	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed, and the proposed funds are sufficient to realise the planned activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5461	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5462	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, you've given me one technical explanation which is why the amendment is not accepted. But I'd like to talk more about the essence here. And when we talk about the essence of the education system, the Croatian qualification framework is one of the key projects for improving both the existing and future education systems, improving and formal and informal education as well as a whole series of other social activities that are more or less related to education. So volunteering, working in associations, working with special groups in society etc. Therefore, for all Croatia's qualification framework is significant. The 250 thousand kuna funds that have been cut for nearly half of this budget are at a symbolic level. And the increase I'm proposing is at the level of last year's budget, so I wanted to be realistic, but I think even then they're at a symbolic level. Since the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is necessary and crucial in the curriculative reform of any school reform, since it is also crucial for a whole series of other segments and unfortunately a hodogram of its implementation is already a cascade to ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5463	Please join the vote on Amendment No. The 40th Honorable representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, whom the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 41st MP Željko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5464	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase funds, and the proposed funds are sufficient to realise planned activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5465	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5466	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers invested resources that are sufficient to carry out the activities as you said were 0 kuna. So I don't know how it'll be enough? It is an international commitment by Croatia signed by an international contract. So it creates major problems for the Republic of Croatia. In order to be clear, this amendment concerns the funds provided for to co-finance the implementation of the Intercultural School project in Vukovar, which is implemented by means of an international contract between Norway, Liechtenstein, Iceland and the Republic of Croatia as part of the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area. After the entry into the European Economic Area, it was possible to use 7.3m euros from the financial mechanism of the area and the Kingdom of Norway for projects to be implemented in the Republic of Croatia from 2014 to 2017. Through this financial mechanism, three projects are funded during this programming period, one of which is a project by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to set up an Intercultural School in Vukovar. With this international contract, Croatia took the obligation to realise the project by April 2017. It should be taken into account that the successful completion of the project will open the possibility of co-financing of projects from the new programming period 2017-2022 of 103m euros. Therefore, I find this argument inconclusive that the sufficient resources of 0 kuna will be sufficient to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5467	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 41st which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The following is Amendment No. 42. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5468	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5469	Dear Representative Štefanija Damjanovic. And I'm sorry, I'm looking forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5470	Dear Ministers, we did not really ask for anything but asked only to keep what was in the budget for 2015 and planned in the 2016 and 2017 budget, which is to make commitments for public-private partnership projects in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Crysing County of 22.5 million kuna. It's about the agreements, so it's not about anything new, something that should now provide additional resources for what reasons. It is about buildings built by public-private partnership and 32 buildings in education that are either built or built according to that model. The state committed itself by an agreement signed to provide 55% of the funds while 35% co-financed by the county and 10% by local self-government units, so cities or counties in whose area these facilities were built. It was a great effort and a desire to improve education. But I don't know why it wasn't continued. What's the reason for that? Here I would like to be supported in this effort to accept this amendment by other colleagues from the Varazdin County and the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, who is specifically now being punished for investing in school. And in the end, what is the message to investors? You can actually sign an agreement, a contract with this country, with this government, but what it means to you is that all of this can be broken and none of that matters. And that's why I'm asking for a vote to see who wants to punish Varazdin County for investing in school.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5471	Thank you very much, dear representative Macar. Please join the vote on Amendment No. 42nd, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is the number of 43 MPs Zeljko Jovanovic and Marija Habeka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5472	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5473	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5474	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, since I was sitting in your chair I know it's not easy for you and it's hard to secure the funds. However, what I consider to be a commitment to you as a minister and these governments is to respect the obligations signed by a contract, as was the case with the previous amendment, and here. A contract on rights and obligations has been signed so as to state where the ministry has taken over the obligation to co-finance projects of the public private partnership in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-križevci County, so I believe that this is an obligation to meet and therefore this amendment is, as well as amendment number 46, where we are asking for funds to be provided for the construction of a sports hall in Babina Greda because the safety of children has been compromised. So we're just asking to respect the commitments that have been made, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5475	Thank you. Please join the vote on Amendment 43, which the Government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 44 of Honored Representative Radiir Cacic. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5476	Explanation. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5477	Dear Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5478	Thank you very much. Since I personally set up a model and realized 32 schools, that the model was joined by Koprivnica with one school, that, unfortunately, in all these many years, no one had done anything with all the good will. Unfortunately, it's not the Varazdin County. A lot of stories, no results. Given the fact that there has been a lot of chatter about European funds without European funds predicting primary and secondary education other than vocational schools, so none of it is. Given the fact that neither the ministry in the past nor in this year foresees anything in that construction because seven objects are nothing, this was just a county of 32. Given the fact that we all know that the actual demographic recovery is related to sustainable development and this country, and the assumption of this is of course Croatia's equal chances, just Croatia, Croatia which employs its population on the labour market. So, an educated country. It's certainly not demagogy and demagogy is welcome sometimes. Every honour of 1,000 euros for children, but if we found 100 million there, we don't find 15 plus 5 here for projects carried by one county when no one else wanted to. It's the wrong message. Everyone who waits for the state to do something to them sees the Arena case as unnecessary and harmful gets the money, and those who plant their own backs are still taking that money. Oh, no? No matter what the deal is. Agreements may not be formally-legal or incompetent mayor and team, formally-legally well written But Jovanovic is here to witness that it was the government's intention to respect the agreements. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5479	Thank you. I understand you're looking for a vote. Let's vote on Amendment 44, which the government does not accept. [[/Intruder Cacic: If it is not accepted we will vote against. Thank you.]] Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next amendment to the 45th Honored Representative Ivan Sincic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5480	Thank you very much. Explanation. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed, and it is stressed that in this position the funds have been increased compared to 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5481	Dear Representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5482	... I tried to reroute funds from the fleet to education so that as much as we remove that Stigma, education funds were reduced. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[/Intruder: The microphone just a little bit. E can.]] And of course I'm not happy with your explanation because it's the same as the last 10, 15. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5483	Please join the vote on amendment number 45, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 46 of Honored Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5484	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment has led to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed, and we note that the project is becoming major legal problems with the contracted contractor, and the proposed funds are sufficient for the implementation of the planned in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5485	The promoter is gone, so then no, then I'll put it to the vote assuming that he wanted to vote, so I'm asking you to make it clear about amendment number 46, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next Amendment No. 47th Representative Ana Komaračić Devčić, Sandra Krpan, Pedje Grbina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5486	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed and the proposed funds are sufficient to fulfil the contractual commitments. The amendment is also invalid because the proposed increase is not equal to the proposed reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5487	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5488	Your Honor. Ministers, Reconstruction and Upgrade of the O.S. Milan Brozovic has been going on for two years and a project of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has been adopted. The school is attended by 702 students and the music department operates at school and 68 teachers and teachers are employed. The school will have 30 classrooms and 11 music departments from next year and only 16 classrooms are available. If 5 new classrooms are not completed, the school will be taught in 2016/2017. take place on the third shift. You've said in the media that we all need to learn that the state is not a bottomless bag. I believe that the state of its commitments must be carried out. I also remind you that this project needs to be completed for the sake of the welfare of children and the quality of work, and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5489	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 47th that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 48th Honorable Representative Radiir Cacic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5490	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funding is proposed, noting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted an amendment which increases funds on that activity in the amount of HRK 32 million, which is sufficient for the transport of high school students in this school year to be co-financed according to the current model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5491	Thank you. There is no honourable representative, so we will approach the vote. Please, who's for Amendment No. The 48th government doesn't accept? Please vote. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is the 49th honourary representative Zeljko Jovanovic, Damir Tomic, Sabine Glasovac and Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5492	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted an amendment which increases that activity in the amount of 32 million kuna, which is sufficient to co-finance the transport of high school students in this school year under the current model.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5493	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5494	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm sorry you didn't accept this amendment, either, for exactly why he made it easier for you as a minister. We are witnessing that the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education is such that 82, 85% goes to pay. By reducing other items, you are actually creating an even further imbalance in such a way that all projects will be impossible to implement. When you are able to introduce a new item into the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, as was the item of 325 million kuna, you are in fact making a big step in implementing words to the works of the story that Croatia is equal to the opportunities in which every child has equal quality education. In this way, without respecting this amendment, do not do what you have advocated. And what it says in the program of the Patriot coalition and the Most where you advocated going to 100% co-financing of student transport, which just shows that you didn't mean it when you wrote that program and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5495	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 49 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment No. 50 Clubs of HNS Representatives, please welcome the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5496	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to realise the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted an amendment which increases the funds on that activity in the amount of HRK 32 million, which is sufficient for the transport of high school students in this school year to be co-financed according to the current model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5497	Dear Representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5498	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, this is already the third amendment on free transportation of high school students and your explanation why you cannot accept the amendment is simply technical. The budget is a political act. You mentioned that by the end of the school year, so by the end of the 6th month you've been secured. What after that? We suggested the proposed amendment and suggested signs for the next multi-annual period. In the debate, I made it clear that you have the chance of a decade-long coalition as well as what you wrote in your programs that high school education becomes mandatory. This is one small step. If by any chance you'd done that, you'd be remembered for believing in me for generations ahead. What I would like to say more about interurban transport, I believe that you are familiar with the statistics we spent at the level of the Varazdin County which was first in 2005, not only the county but all units of local self-government jointly set off for one pilot project. More than 30% of high school students, over 30% of graduates, average grades, not to say how many, so guesses were made for education. You're advocating, your coalition down methods and measures of demographic restoration, this is exactly what you're doing the opposite. It's not good. These are policies. And I'm saying, your argument, you listened to the debate in the House, that it was intended by this government to go that way, which way we suggest, it doesn't matter to you what position we take off from. Whoever wants to do something will find a way and who doesn't make up a reason. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5499	Please join the vote on Amendment No. The 50th that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is the number 51st representative of Tihomir Jakovina and Damir Tomic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5500	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which funds are proposed and to increase, noting that the funds are secured at the positions of the University of Osijek and universities and higher schools. The funds cannot be planned because last year the Law on the Establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod was passed and until it was consumed as well as the resolution of relations between stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5501	Thank you. Dear Representative Tihomir Jakovina on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5502	Thank you, Mr. President. I must show dissatisfaction with your explanation and disapproval of the amendments. I will note that in September 2015 this high, esteemed House passed the Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod. 1.10. is also confirmed by the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia and there are all preconditions for the University of Slavonski Brod to start working in accordance with this law. Article 13 of the Law in question states that, among other things, the assets of the university are to be included in the funds provided for in the work of the university in the state budget. I can understand from one side you as a resolute minister who comes from Rijeka that the University of Slavonski Brod is not a priority and is not particularly important, but I regret to note that in the Government of the Republic of Croatia there are two Brodjans who have raised their hands and worked on this budget and have not respected the needs of the Brodjans or this part of Slavonia, our region, that it has a university. In the budget debate itself, there was no understanding on your part or on the part of the parliamentary majority. Here we have a proposal for an amendment now at the vote. I am interested in the fact that we have four respected parliamentary representatives and representatives from the parliamentary position coming from the area of Brod-Posavina County, who have been elected to represent the interests of the inhabitants of Brod-Posavina County, will they raise their hands and vote against their university or will they still vote on their conscience? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5503	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 51st that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find that the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 52nd Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5504	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase the funds. It is also noted that for the construction of primary and secondary schools, funds are provided for in the budgets of units of local and regional self-government and all in accordance with the Law on Education and Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5505	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5506	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you know that Bartol Kasic High School is the only island high school on the island of Pag. I don't know if you know it's a school that works under difficult working conditions. I don't know if you're aware that the school works in a building or a building that was built in 1966 and unfortunately shares it with the primary school "Jurja Dalmatinca". I don't know if you know the ministers that school doesn't meet the minimum technical conditions prescribed by the state pedagogical standard, and I don't know if you know that all this together actually affects or encourages young people to leave the island of Pag to continue secondary education at some of the other city centres in Zadar County. I don't know if you know that, and you probably know, the power of the local budget isn't such that it can handle financing the construction of a new building and I'm sad that the state doesn't recognize the importance of investing in school facilities especially on our islands. In fact, emergency investment is needed in the construction of a new school building. In this way, it would be possible to open two more programmes, two or three programmes in the agricultural or tourism sector, along with the existing general high school programmes and two JMO programs, and training for the interest of the lace. This is the capital project of the city of Pag and this is a project that certainly contributes to the revitalisation of our islands. But unfortunately I see that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports neither the Croatian government has any interest or hearing for the purposes of our islanders or students. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5507	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 52, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 53. The HRID representative club and the independent representative of Sandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5508	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which the increase in funds is proposed and the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2016. The amendment is also invalid because the proposed increase is not equally proposed by the reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5509	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer? Honorable representative Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic or? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5510	Minister, if I understand correctly, is something wrong? What amendment, about 53 or 56?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5511	53.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5512	Yeah. Well, since I've already got two minutes, then I'll use the time, so I'll say it's a scientific research activity, so I think really 2 million kunas less for administration and material expenditure at the Ministry of Finance, and that 2 million kuna more for scientific research activity, I think every comment is too high. I mean, I don't understand at this point, I'm not surprised that you're refusing the amendment, so we're just changing numbers and the text of the argument remains the same. But what surprises me and what surprises me is that you as a minister who used to be a dean, who you're a university professor, you need to know very well what scientific and research activity means. Well, it will be interesting to see how colleagues here in the Parliament who actually come from the system of science and higher education will vote on this item where science and higher education are reduced. I don't come from a system of science and higher education, but I certainly recognize the importance of scientific research. And it is saddened, in fact, that a world-caliber scientist Ivan Djikic must write a letter that was, by the way, admitted to the European Academy of Science and was not admitted to the HAZU and warned about this situation and warned about this budget. So I ask you, in fact, will one of the main export products in Croatia become scientists soon? Thank you very much. And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5513	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 53 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment of 54th Honored Representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5514	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase the resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5515	Thank you. Dear Representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5516	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I understand that it is not easy for you with 150 million kuna to work with a smaller budget all this year. I am also sorry for all those promises of your option when you came to power what you want to do with education but the project of public private partnership in Bjelovar-Belogorje County is in some way a copy of the idea of what was going on in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Crysing County. And I think the effort to maintain the same would certainly raise the standard in particular my county which is undeveloped. I will not use the opportunity as some colleagues to invite those from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County or other constituencies to support this project for one single reason because they voted against it in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. ... Please let me vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5517	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 54th which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is No. 55th Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5518	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activity from which the increase in funds is proposed and the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5519	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5520	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, the Ministers have the same explanation for everything. And I think the topics we're touching from education are very different, different and deserve a little more detailed explanation. At the level of last year, we invested a million and 660 thousand kuna in the development of higher education. I believe we will all agree that in the development of such an important system of education that prepares students precisely for the labour market this was a symbolic amount. This year 500 thousand kunas were planned. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, this turns out that the Republic of Croatia is investing more in the reconstruction of the Constitutional Court's rolling stock than in the development of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's sad if it's not embarrassing already and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5521	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 55 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next Amendment No. 56. The HRID representative club and the independent representative of Sandor Juhas. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5522	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment has also led to the inability to realise the activity from which the increase in funds is proposed and the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5523	On behalf of the promoter, do we? We don't. Then let's approach the vote, please. Who is in favour of accepting Amendment No. 56, which government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 57th Representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5524	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the ministry of those activities has agreed a provision in programme contracts with each individual university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5525	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5526	Your Honor, this is some kind of mistake, this is a misunderstanding. I am absolutely certain that the government would accept this amendment only if she knew whose amendment it was. That's not my amendment. The amendment is stupid, the amendment is stupid, but the amendment isn't mine. I prescribed that amendment from last year's budget, that amendment was given by Parliament Speaker Mr. Zeljko Reiner. He invested 77 amendments in which he was removing funds from the position of the President of the Republic's office, then President Josipovic and... this money by budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've intended to copy all... But it didn't work out for me, I only wrote down seven, because I don't think it's right to make fun of President Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last year's SDP club, 77 times, last year, the SDP club, of course, voted against such a stupid amendment and will now vote against it. But I am very interested in how the author of the amendment will vote, Mr. Zeljko Reiner, and all the HDZs who voted for this amendment last time. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5527	Dear Representative Nenadu Stazic, I first ask you not to use any ugly expressions here. It's not nice to talk about each other that we're stupid. I've never said such a thing to you in my life, therefore, but I ask my colleagues to join the vote on this amendment. Who's up for the proposed amendment? Thank you very much. I find that the proposed amendment has not received a majority, a sufficient number of votes. Amendment number 58 of Honored Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5528	Thank you. Well, that's an explanation. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase the funds. The proposed activities are also already being financed at higher universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5529	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5530	This amendment is also about taking funds from the position of the President of the Republic. Perhaps this amendment would now make sense far more than last year if President Grabar Kitarovic had fulfilled her most important pre-election promise and moved her office to the High because then she wouldn't need so much money. But here's her most important election promise she didn't keep, the others we don't even remember. I doubt she remembers it, too. And this amendment would make sense now if she did. Although President Josipovic never spoke about how he would move his office, however the proposed amendment was Mr. Zeljko Reiner's proposal for an amendment to take away his funds. And I expect that he will support this amendment in order to encourage the President of the Republic to keep his promise when we take some money from her, so that she can still move to the High. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5531	Please join the vote on Amendment number 58, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment number 59 of Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5532	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activity from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed amendment is implemented at higher universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5533	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5534	... The amendment shall take the funds from the position of the Office of the President of the Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They wanted to get married last year. Why? Because President Josipovic didn't need those funds. No, because it was Ivo Josipovic, then the president of the Republic as well as the funds are now being removed from the office of the former president of the Republic. Why? Well, because it's Mr. Mesic you don't like. And I'm wondering if President Tudjman was lucky enough to stay alive, so if he had the president's office, would you take off his funds for the former president's office, too? You'd be smaller than a mustard grain, lower than grass, quieter than water. And since the government obviously doesn't appreciate Since the government but neither the parliamentary majority, the HDZ obviously does not appreciate Academyman Reinera enough to accept these amendments. [[/Intruder President: Please give colleagues a chance to colleague Stazić to express his thoughts. Please.]] He's the only one who votes yes, you all the others against. I'm gonna pull, it doesn't make any sense now, the other four of my amendments as well as this one. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5535	Thank you very much. So the amendment has been withdrawn. The next amendment is number 60. Croatian Social Liberal Party Representatives' Club of the "Retired Together" and Independent Representatives Gordana Rusak and MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists, Honorable Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5536	The government therefore partially accepts this amendment of 7 million and 850 thousand kuna for which activity will be increased, the development of the Croatian Foundation for Science will be developed. At the same time allow me ladies and gentlemen also to say something about the division, or position from which these funds will be reduced, or redistributed. It's support for political parties. So in the next few months, you can expect, of course, a proposal for legislative amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties and election promotions. And on the basis of this amendment, 55 million kuna is planned for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5537	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Kovačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5538	On behalf of the promoter, I agree with the minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5539	Thank you very much. So we don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5540	And on behalf of the HSLS, Buz and Independent Representative Gordana Rusak, we also accept the amended amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5541	Thank you very much. So we move on to amendment number 61. HNS's club. Your Honor, Ministers, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5542	Thank you. So, amendment number 61st argument. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement an activity from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for the existing number of scientific recruits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5543	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, distinguished representative Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5544	Mr. Ministers would disagree with this argument of yours, first of all, in the first part where you said that these 50 million kunas that we have suggested to come across for this program of scientific recruits comes from the position of the Agreement with the Holy See. So, the Holy chair used to work with 245 or the church worked with 245 million kuna, so it could probably continue, given that a much larger amount is now proposed in the budget. I have to say here and name these few numbers, namely, there's been a drastic reduction in funds. So, once planned in 2015, 213 million people don't know exactly how much was realized. It's now planned in 2016. 48 million kuna. So nearly four times the funding for scientific recruits has been reduced. Mr. Minister, you come from the university and very well, and you certainly know how important this programme is, especially in that part of the political programs that were most talked about just from the coalition from which you came. And that's that we have to keep young people, and especially that we have to keep the ones we invested a lot in, so those people who have gained a high degree of education. These funds, which are planned, means 48 million kuna, I'm afraid it would be insufficient to buy them credit cards for where they want to go after this programme is reduced to 48 million kuna, which means unfortunately these young scientists, or those who should be scientists, will be unfortunately evicted from Croatia. We're asking to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5545	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 61st that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 62nd Honored Representative of Peja Grbin. Your Honor, Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5546	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that, in accordance with the legislation, the proposed project cannot be nominated in the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5547	Thank you. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5548	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, in order to show all the illogicalness of your reasoning, I will point out the fact that you, as Government, have removed a double the amount that I have proposed by this amendment. So much for the logic of your explanation. And now, as far as capital donation items are concerned, the city of Pula is building a city swimming pool in Pula. When the state budget co-financed the megalomanium halls across the Republic of Croatia, Pula reconstructed its hall itself without the help of the state. When the state budget co-financed stadiums all over Croatia, Pula built its own stadium. I thought, naive as I am, that at least for the pool we'd get support from the state. Obviously, we're not good for that either. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5549	Please vote on Amendment No. 62, which the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 63rd Representative Željko Jovanovic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5550	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the resources provided for have been increased and 17 million kuna from the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency has been additionally provided for the climate change research project. This represents a 20% increase in project funding through a trust fund. The amendment is also invalid because the proposed increase is not equal to the proposed reduction. In addition, I add the previous explanation of the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5551	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5552	Thank you very much. Well, unfortunately, when we talk about science, then you can see that science is in an unfavourable position again. Despite the fact that we had a debate here on the financing of scientific research, which we read petition of scientists only to respect the increase of the Croatian Science Foundation's funding in the amount that your amendment has been accepted and these mine could then say that the mission of the Croatian Foundation for Science will be possible. In 2015, 179 PhDs were employed in the system of science and higher education, and a tender was opened in September 2015. Of these 251 applications for doctoral reception and employment, 200 of the best candidates were elected. At the same time, in order to ensure the continuity of scientific and research work, another competition is envisaged in April 2016, with the basis of which the new 200 PhDs should be selected by October 2016. The funds provided for without an increase will not be able to make this happen. So I suggest we vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5553	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 63, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. As far as Amendment 64 is concerned, Honorable Representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5554	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5555	Thank you very much. So the amendment has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 65 of MP Željko Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5556	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5557	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5558	My colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately one of the major problems in the past has been financing student centres, which is why student centres have been dealing with losses. A major effort in the past term of the Croatian government has finally ensured that student centres do not operate with loss but for this reason it is not possible to achieve future business without loss, without at the same time ensuring co-financing of all activities of the student centres. Therefore, the lack of respect for this amendment and the reduction of funds for student centres in other universities have been condemned to have to deal with losses and to continue to undermine the student standard of students and therefore to ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5559	We will join the vote on Amendment No. 65th that the government doesn't accept. Who's for him? I figure he didn't get enough votes. Amendment No. 66th Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5560	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activity from which an increase in funds is proposed and the proposed funds are sufficient to increase the work and scientific novices and the mater expenditure are secured in the programme contracts' activities in accordance with Article 38(2). Budget law. Amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure, expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft state budget and projections have been tabled, may be accepted provided that both other expenditures and expenditures are reduced at the same time in a specific part of the budget. In addition, Article 46(5) of the Law provides that the appropriations cannot be redistributed between the income and expenditure accounts and the financing accounts. In that case, a simultaneous increase in expenditure and a reduction in expenditure, i.e. a redistribution between income and expenditure accounts and financing accounts, is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5561	Thank you. Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5562	Mr. Minister, if we look at the small budgets of all universities in the Republic of Croatia and compare them with the 2015 plan, then we will see that the University of Zagreb was reduced by 1.3% compared to the 2015 plan, the University of Rijeka by 1.6%, the University of Split by 3.2%, the University of Osijek by 7.4%, the University of Pula by 8.5%, the University of Dubrovnik by 12.7% and the University of Zadar by 25.3%. Compared to other Croatian universities, the University of Zadar, according to these figures, has submitted the biggest reduction burden in the 2016 plan. With respect to the need to streamline the budget and the better balance of the income and expenditure side, it should not have happened that so disproportionately, once a university has been reduced by a supra-proportional reduction of funds. It is also clear from this proposed budget that smaller universities have borne a higher burden of restrictions in the budget which does not contribute to the politic development of higher education and science in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this reduction for the regular activities of the University of Zadar and insufficient funds for the construction of campuses of the University of Zadar. You know they've been granted much less than the real need. I think the Zadar University is going back to what I can't support, and I'm asking you to take special care of it. It's not right and it's not fair to the Zadar University as long as they have to keep quiet about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5563	Are you asking for a vote, perhaps? Please join the vote on amendment 66, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Now let's go to Amendment No. 67. IDS, PGS, LRI and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5564	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed and the proposed funds are sufficient to increase past work and scientific recruits and material expenditures are secured in programme contracts activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5565	Dear Representative Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5566	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, I cannot accept your explanation because the amendment has just been sent for the reason that the planned funds are not sufficient for the university to work. The truth is, Pula University is relatively young, celebrating only 10 years since its founding. However, the fact is that it was your government that projected the revenue of the 2016 budget itself to a significant extent based on revenue from European funds. In this draft budget, you just cut the EU's position of Pula University projects by a total of 90%. And the part where our university could participate in European projects is reduced to 15 thousand kuna. So we're talking about the possibility of participating some 100 thousand kuna instead of planning over 600 thousand kuna. Furthermore, you must also know very well that when we talk about participation of Istria in the state budget, it is indeed measured by significant percentages. On the other hand, when we ask that some of these funds be returned to Istria where the funds are achieved and then we are not talking unfortunately about the percentages but about the differences. So we definitely want to base our development on knowledge, which is why we need the university. And I believe that the success of the Pulski University and the success of Croatian science, I believe that the success of Istria is Croatia's success, so I ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5567	Thank you. Please join the vote, Amendment No. 67th, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. We are moving on to Amendment 68 of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5568	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2016. The amendment is also invalid because the proposed increase is not equal to the proposed reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5569	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5570	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Secretary, I'm not happy with the explanation. First of all, I have to conclude, like my colleague, the Voter, before me, all the universities are cutting funds. We've heard that the University of Osijek is participating with 7.5% reduction. However, we must conclude that the only University of Osijek has less salaries in the budget than all universities in Croatia. It is the only university in eastern Croatia, so since the ship's university is not in the budget at all, and I believe that this is a maternal relationship actually towards our university, the more the Osijek University has withdrawn a lot of money from the EU projects, or EU funds, and we know ourselves that the EU project preparation activity itself requires certain means to get out of various permits, prepare projects, human resources, etc. I will also not appeal as my colleagues to colleagues sitting here, and some of them members of the University of Osijek are... But think carefully about the fact that the only university in eastern Croatia has this kind of treatment and endures a disproportionate reduction not only in this EU project, but also in the wage table. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does this mean that our country is giving up the only university, I repeat in eastern Croatia? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5571	Please join the vote on Amendment 68, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next Amendment number 69. IDS, PGS, LRI and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5572	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5573	Dear Representative Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5574	Well, I think you can see the whole absurdity in this amendment. So, in the proposal for a state budget, the finance minister made it very clear what the optimism and growth of revenues are based on. So, we are trying to help the government right now with this amendment so that the EU funds are actually used to a greater extent. I'm afraid with this policy we'll still be a country that will only pay membership fees, and much less funds to withdraw which are at our disposal. Therefore, this is exclusively about funds that should be their own component, i.e. that participation that the university should submit to those funds in order to link x times more funds from the EU funds themselves. I think it is in this amendment that the entire absurdity of the draft budget is reflected when you are building growth on EU funds, and on the other hand by more than 90% you are reducing the item that these funds were meant to be made. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5575	Please join the vote on Amendment 69, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. We move on to amendment number 70 of MPs Peđa Grbin and Tanja Vrbat Grgic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5576	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activity from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5577	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5578	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, my fellow citizen, Pulezan Boris Miletic, who also studied at that university, told you how wrong you were, and I will add. First, as in the case of my previous amendment, and here you jump into your own mouth. You say that by accepting this amendment in that item where the funds are reduced, it would lead to the inability to implement the programmes provided for by these funds, and then by other amendments, I submit these funds to reduce three and a half times as much as I have suggested. And let me remind you of the means. It is about funds intended for the work of political parties just to make it clear to the entire Croatian public how hard you have worked to explain why you reject these amendments. Mr. Minister, I understand. It's not easy for you. I think from the moment you were elected to this House 60 days ago to be Minister of Science, Education, Culture, Pardon not Culture, it used to be. Science, education and sports have repeatedly regretted taking over that hot chair. But to say that the projected funds were enough when you reduced them 40 times compared to the ones that were last year is the least funny thing to say. Explain to me, please, let Mr. Finance explain to me how you can finance a national component with 15181 kuna in the case of European funds. I don't know that. If you know that hat down there. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5579	Please join the vote on Amendment 70, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. We're moving on to amendment number 71. IDS, PGS, LRI and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5580	Thank you. Explanation. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for planning and contracted activities in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5581	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5582	So you see, the Institute of Public Finance has calculated that Istra makes surpluses annually and makes more payments to the state budget of nearly 1 billion kuna. Here we ask only 1 million or exactly 1 permeation of the funds achieved in Istria to return to Istria for science. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5583	We will join the vote on Amendment No. 71st that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. 72th Honored Representatives Peđa Grbin and Tanja Vrbat Grgić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5584	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for planning and contracted activities in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5585	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5586	Your Honor, Mr. President, do I have to point out that this is also about the funds that you have reduced by your own amendment, the amendment of the Government? I don't think I have to. I think it's already clear to everyone. In order to understand what amounts it is I will say that this item that we are talking about in 2014 had 9 million 924 thousand kuna. 2015 Nine million and four hundred and thirty-five thousand kuna. And in 2016 for capital investment at the University of Pula you predict 900 thousand kuna, 10 times less. I think this is what you've shown your relationship to Istria, to Pula, but also your relationship to higher education. Since I find it ugly to watch this board be seen red and ugly as the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament shame themselves by rejecting amendments relating to science, and since I am aware of what the results of the vote will be, I am withdrawing the amendment and I am not asking for a vote, and I call on you to be ashamed and to consider what you are doing on that chair in which you have sat down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5587	I find that the amendment has been withdrawn, so we have no vote on it, but we are going to the amendment of the 73rd Honorable Representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5588	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for planning and contracted activities in 2016. The amendment is also invalid because the proposed increase is not equal to the proposed reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5589	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5590	Dear Ministers, I think it is justified to ask that the funds be taken from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for material expenditure and to return to the students or the Education and Education Agency for extracurricular activities in primary and secondary schools for the implementation of the competition. I think that's justified. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is the biggest loser of the state budget. This also adds to the fact that out of 94 total amendments submitted to the draft budget, as many as 44 amendments and almost 50% respectively relate to the system of science, education and sport but to the highest of sciences and education. This indicates the great dissatisfaction of representatives with the proposed cuts or by reducing the budget for education and science. Unfortunately, we knock on the closed door. Same or similar arguments very technically, coldly rejected, inexhaustible. I ask that this amendment return 701 thousand 447 kuna to last year's level of tendering. I keep unwarranted and harmful to lower already a low level of separation for the implementation of competitions in primary and secondary schools. By participating in competitions, gifted students may also have the only opportunity to show gift and excellence in certain areas and thus present all of the things they have acquired as added value with the help of their mentors, teachers and teachers with a regular plan and programme. I'm sorry this government doesn't recognize it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5591	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 73th which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendment No. 74th Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5592	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities from which an increase in funds is proposed, noting that the proposed funds are sufficient for planned and contracted activities in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5593	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5594	Minister, allow me to disagree with you. Namely, my amendment requires a little more than 500 thousand kuna to be returned to the item of professional training of educational staff in the system of primary and secondary education, i.e. to last year's level. The key to a successful educational process is a teacher, teacher and associate who is continuously and adequately professionally perfected. In addition to all the above, the need to preserve this standard, if it is not already possible to raise it, and which is not, it is unacceptable to lower it compared to 2015, especially because if you are behind a curriculative reform that is experimentally needed to enter Croatian schools at the beginning of the next school year or in September, then you should know, and you probably know that the largest part of the activities with the implementation of the expert and public debate is the training of our teachers, teachers and professional associates so that the same curricular reform can be implemented adequately. I fear that not only by increasing the standard of professional training from the means for this purpose, but by lowering it, we are again sending a message that perhaps this public support for the curricula reform and its entry into Croatian schools has been experimentally since September of this year and is not so sincere as it seems. Because if it were true then it would have to be recognised in the budget, it would have to recognise the needs of the system and implement all those needs for the implementation of the curricula reform. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5595	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 4. which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority of votes. Amendment No. In 75th, President Nenad Stazic withdrew, so we won't vote on him. We're moving to Amendment 76, which was given by HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5596	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are sufficient to plan, as commitments are planned and agreed on at the items of expenditure at which they are planned. The amendment is also invalid because only an increase has been proposed without the proposed reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5597	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. The distinguished representative Štefanija Damjanovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5598	I am sorry that this amendment was rejected, which directly halted the desire and initiative of the Međimurje County to complete all necessary works in the construction of the sports hall in O.Š. Orehovica, a project that started 10 years ago. It should certainly be pointed out that this project is of paramount importance for the state and is highly responsible for it since most of the students of the school are members of the Roma national minority and it is necessary to stress that it is O.S. Orehovica in the Republic of Croatia is recognised as an example of good practice precisely in working with Roma national minority students, as all programmes and projects are implemented integrationally with the pupils of the majority people. By ourselves, more than 5 million kunas were spent to complete this huge investment that would improve the conditions of teaching for students of the school there, and this is exactly how the state makes it impossible for them and sends a message to local self-government representatives that the project in the education sector will be very difficult to obtain from them. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5599	Let's join the vote on Amendment No. 76, which the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next Amendment 77. HNS's club. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5600	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned and agreed obligations on the items of expenditure at which they are planned. The amendment is also invalid because only an increase has been proposed without the proposed reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5601	Dear Representative Štefanija Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5602	Dear President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, I am sorry that you rejected this amendment and failed to see the importance of this project that we have been waiting for for for more than 18 years and which is of great strategic importance not only for the county and not only for the state but also for our children and all future generations that will be its participants, which would thus get all the necessary preconditions for quality education and a better future. It should be pointed out that most of the school's students are members of the Roma national minority, which is why this project is of the state's exceptional responsibility, but in addition to its implementation, we could at least get a little closer to our mentioned desire to become a desire for knowledge. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5603	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 77 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Amendments No. In 78th, 79th and 80s, Nenad Stazic's representatives were withdrawn, so we will not decide on them. Thank you very much, Minister. And now I would like to invite the Minister of Labour and Pensions System to the esteemed Nada Sikic in connection with Amendment 81. HNS's club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5604	Amendment 81. HNS's club. The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. The funds planned for the activities and financing and co-financing of professional rehabilitation and employment programmes of disabled persons are sufficient to carry out professional rehabilitation activities or to compensate for the costs of persons above employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5605	Dear Representative Mrak-Taritash, on behalf of the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5606	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, of course, as the amendments end, it is evident that another amendment is going to be much less green than red. But I think it absolutely deserved to be said a few words about this amendment and the reason why we filed it. The reason is because we absolutely disagree with your argument that the funds are sufficient. All analysis shows that the funds are not sufficient, that there is a need to provide greater resources for persons who would be educated for professional rehabilitation and thus enable this most sensitive group of people with disabilities to work conditions. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5607	Please join the vote on Amendment 81, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Now we're going to Amendment 82. HNS's club. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5608	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. The funds planned for relief and incentives in the employment of disabled persons are sufficient for the payment of incentives and incentives in the employment of disabled persons as part of the funds is paid out of the source 43. Other revenue for special purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5609	Dear representative of the Dark-Taritash on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5610	Thank you very much. I disagree with the reasons for the simple reason we have one excellent tendency to pass laws and when we see those laws they sound great. In many cases, however, a dead letter remains on paper. And the Law on the way of employment and the incentives when it comes to people with disabilities will remain a dead letter on paper if we do not provide sufficient resources. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5611	We will join the vote on Amendment number 82, which the government does not accept. Please, who's in favor of that amendment? I find that the amendment has not received enough votes and we move on to amendment number 83 of the distinguished representatives Ana Komarić Devčić, Sandra Krpan and Peđa Grbin. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5612	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. The funds planned to fund and co-finance the programme of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons are sufficient to carry out the activities of professional rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5613	On behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5614	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear Minister, I can't be surprised at this budget since you are, and I hope that you have participated in the creation of a key government guideline where you put an item of the disabled person to enable him to enter the world of work, and then you give that item and your plan a budget that absolutely reduces the possibility of people with disabilities to return to the world of work, or what this is about. In the proposed amendment, we asked for an increase of only 2 million kuna, 2 million kuna to facilitate professional rehabilitation and employment for people with disabilities. If we consider that the return of persons with disabilities to the world of work is actually a prerequisite for their independent life and a prerequisite for them to feel good in the society they belong to, and when we know that disability is not the reason why they can't get a job, but just because they're not qualified for the world of work, then it's more totally unacceptable to me that you've decided to cut yourself on the most sensitive groups in this society and for that reason I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5615	Please join the vote on Amendment 83, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? The amendment didn't get enough votes. And now thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And now we would like to ask the Minister of Health Dari Nakic and the first amendment, which he will show himself about and he is 84th Honored Representative Vedran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5616	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendment in 84 does not take into account budgetary constraints and the fact that the Ministry of Health has focused on the use of EU funds as well as on construction works so that for the General Hospital Bjelovar, given the preparedness of the project, the possibility of financing the same from the EU funds will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5617	Dear Representative Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5618	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Just my colleagues while they apologize, and I'll keep going. Dear Ministers, I believe you missed the fact that the Belarusian hospital has a building permit and that it is one of the projects that you can certainly apply among the first to withdraw funds from the EU and it would be good to have a position to build a Belarusian hospital. But since you're not such an optimist, because eighty amendments haven't passed, I'll pull mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5619	So Amendment 84 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment number 85 of MPs Branimir Glavas and Josip Salapic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5620	The amendment 85 does not take into account that the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases provides that the Republic of Croatia, the County, cities and municipalities are obliged to ensure the implementation of measures to protect the public against infectious diseases, as well as the means to carry out them as well as the professional supervision of the implementation of those diseases. Article 5(2) of the same law provides that the annual programme of public protection measures against infectious diseases for the municipality, the city, the county is to be adopted by the municipal chief, the mayor, the mayor, and, on a proposal from the competent Committee on Health, this amendment is therefore not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5621	Thank you very much. There are no promoters, so we'll approach the vote immediately. Who's for amendment number 85 the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment 86. IDS, PGS, LRI and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5622	That amendment is not accepted since the Ministry of Health planned financial resources for the construction of the General Hospital Pula in accordance with the request of the General Hospital Pula and are the same sufficient for the settlement of credit obligations in accordance with the agreement with the General Hospital Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5623	Dear Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5624	Yes, Mr. Minister, this amendment is certainly not in the sphere of your ministry's decision, this amendment has been followed and has requested a de facto decision from the government, which I will say very openly Istria will be valued if it does not participate with 25% of the funds to build a new general hospital that the new general hospitals will not be. So, I'm not talking about your ministry or this government, it's been decided before. So Istria must be the first in Croatia for many things. But when we talk about the current situation in health care about the operation of the General Hospital Pula in two locations, it is clear that this is an unsustainable situation, primarily because of our citizens but we cannot ignore the significant share of tourism that Istria is experiencing and the large number of tourists visiting Istria. I mentioned earlier that almost 1 billion kuna surpluses are coming true on an annual basis. So with that surplus it would be possible to build up I would dare say 1.5 hospitals a year. So, this amendment went towards making those 25% that are conditional on Istria to take on the burden of the state budget for reasons that it has indeed been a long number of years for Istria to give a great deal to the state budget. I think we are the only county and the only founder of the hospital that has self-recovered the hospital's debts by raising 10 million euros in loans to settle existing obligations. The other hospitals are being rescheduled by the state budget. And that's what we're witnessing. I said we're making one third of Croatia's tourism, so we're talking more than 20 billion kuna tourism revenues. Therefore, this amendment, however symbolic it looked, only 2 and a few million kunas, went in order to correct an agreement that conditionaled on Istria, thus 25% of the financing, construction and equipment of a new General Hospital in Pula. So I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5625	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 86 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I figure he didn't get enough votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 87. HNS's club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5626	It is the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this amendment is not accepted since the programme of investment in health infrastructure cannot be increased as a programme and the funds are intended for the renewal of old equipment and emergency intervention on buildings and equipment of health institutions are planned for all counties in the Republic of Croatia alike.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5627	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Štefanija Damjanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5628	Mr. Minister, I am sorry that you did not recognise the importance of this project and have rejected this amendment, which would directly enable citizens in Međimurje County to have access to full health care services in one place. This is extremely important because the new health facility, instead of 4 locations, would have included all health services in one place so far, in the circle of Čakovec County Hospital, where all healthcare facilities are located, so that we can set a new standard of health care throughout Croatia. For this reason, this project, whose total value is more than 35 million kuna, is under consideration one of the priorities for the County of Međimurje and should be stressed that the first stage of work has already been completed. It is indeed a great pity that you have not decided to grant the resources necessary to implement the second phase and to reduce the deadline for completion of the whole project. Mr. Minister, what's the message to the citizens of Međimurje County? The message is you continue to be treated in a home of health that does not meet the terms of the 19th century. The Međimurci has no education, no national minorities, no sports hall that doesn't end for 10 years. Just to remind you, the Međimurje County is leading in Croatia after export growth. In the County of Međimurje, citizens have the lowest wage average. In Međimurje County, executive authority has provided textbooks, transportation to primary schools. In Međimurje, the executive authority has secured transport for all high school students.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5629	So I understand that you want a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5630	Yes, please consider these amendments we've given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5631	Please join the vote on Amendment No. 87 that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is No. 88th Representatives Peđa Grbin, Davor Penic, Stipe Petrina and Tanja Vrbat Grgić. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5632	That amendment is not accepted since the funds for the position are provided for the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute in accordance with the request of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute. We are actually, as you know very quickly in the process of reorganising emergency medical aid and all improvements in standards will be provided from extra- budget funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5633	On behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Tanja Vrbat Grgić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5634	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we've heard there's a reorganisation going on, but I honestly doubt any reforms will occur, and so will these long-proclaimed emergency medical aid reforms. You know, when it comes to the emergency care network, there are only two cities that come out of the Republic of Croatia to the criteria of distance from the first hospital, which is the city of Umag from which I come and the city of Metkovic from which some fellow representatives also come. For many years, we have heard tragic news from our midst, and we are all disgusted when someone literally dies in front of a closed emergency door. Local environments and citizens themselves in our midst have been organised and even voluntary actions have collected money for outside hospital emergency medical reception that is essential for our environments as well as other environments that are covered by these amendments on the islands. We are really sick and tired of announcing reforms as citizens die and the state needs to ensure every citizen so that we, especially the citizens of Umag and Metkovic and their immediate surroundings, are entitled to life and health. If the item is guilty I believe that you could find and then, find as minister a new item. I'm still asking for a vote and I appeal that in the future when you wake up, if that reform comes to mind, that you don't forget us. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5635	We will join the vote on Amendment No. 88th, which the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Thank you very much. ... I would now like to ask the Minister of Social Policy and Youth for the Honorable Bernardica Juretic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first amendment is the number of 89th Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted from the fact that the planned funds are sufficient for the implementation of the planned measures, given the fact that the funds spent in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5637	Thank you. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5638	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would not agree with your position that the funds are sufficient. Namely, the culture of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia is not sufficiently developed. Here I think we can all agree and a step towards strengthening the volunteering institution was the adoption of the Voluntary Law. However, it does not need to stop our work, it should continue, and institutionally support it more by developing volunteering, we also develop the non-governmental sector, care for socially vulnerable groups in society, as well as encourage individuals to constructively contribute to society and use their time in a productive way both for the individual and for the community. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5639	We will join the vote on Amendment No. 89th which the government does not accept. Please, who's in favour of that amendment? I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. 90th Representative Ana Komaračić Devčić, Sandra Krpan and Peđe Grbina. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5640	According to the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Amendment No. The 90th is also not accepted for the same reason because the planned funds are sufficient for the implementation of the planned measures, taking into account the fact that the funds also spent in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5641	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5642	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Which item is this? It is an item of the implementation of measures of family and population policy. In short, it's about demographic restoration. Given that the HDZ was one of the biggest and most frequent creamworks in the campaign, we expected significant changes to take place in this item. And indeed, they have indeed come to pass. The funds foreseen for family and population policy in the Republic of Croatia have been reduced compared to the funds foreseen for 2015 by more than one hundred thousand kuna to ensure that at least part of your pre-election promises can be realised. My colleague and I asked that this item be corrected. Obviously that's not accepted, so just to help you keep your promises from staying a dead letter on paper, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5643	We will join the vote on Amendment No. The 90th that the government doesn't accept. Who's up for that amendment? The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. 91st respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5644	Amendment No. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not accept the fact that the planned funds were sufficient to achieve all activities under this item in view of the funds spent in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5645	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5646	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, my colleague Grbin spoke about this before me, so it's about the social empowerment of the family of young and children. I believe that effective youth policy is extremely important because young people are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society. We are constantly talking about the exodus of young people, about the different problems of young people and we are showing them a radical reduction in the budget that is intended for them. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5647	We will join the vote on an amendment 91 that the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. 92th Honored Representatives Ana Comparić Devčić, Sandra Krpan and Peđe Grbina. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5648	On 31 December 2014, the number of beneficiaries of the aid and care allowance was 72408 and 31.12.2015 were 66750 users and 7.9%, respectively. We expect that this trend will be maintained in 2016 and that the planned funds for this fee are sufficient and do not need to be increased and therefore the Government has not adopted this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5649	Dear Representative Ana Comparić Devčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5650	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Minister, I can't possibly be satisfied with the sentence we expect it to be. It is therefore an item for care and assistance in the house for people with disabilities, a reduction of 45 million kuna. What we've been trying to do with this amendment is to ease it, because we've only asked for 10 million kuna increases. So we didn't even go to the same amount that was in the previous budget. The extra for help and care in the house today is 500 and 350 kuna. You, your government have decided and that amount that gets people with disabilities to go down. I'm sorry to say this, but it's embarrassing for me. It's a shame to cut the amount of 500 and 350 kuna. And for all that, I must ask my colleagues for a vote on the most vulnerable groups, and I expect them to show empathy to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5651	Thank you. We will join the vote on Amendment 92, which the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Please vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is number 93. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5652	Amendment 93 is not accepted and the justification is that Article 38(2) does not apply. The budget law shall be submitted to amendments proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft state budget and projections may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. In that case, it is not apparent which exact expenditures are proposed to be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5653	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5654	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. It is an amendment that is related to a strategic plan to protect human rights of persons with disabilities. I would especially like to emphasise it for the next reason. It's a strategic plan that speaks of people with disabilities, that there is a big difference between those living in the urban part of our country and those living in rural areas. So, em it's about people with specific needs, em it's about being different depending on where they live. This amendment was intended to contribute to the implementation of the 2016/2018 period. at least partially guarantee equal rights to all persons no matter where they live. And when it comes to and when you talk about you refer to the budget reached in 2015, let me remind you of the fact that the elections were November 8th. That means 10, 11 and 12 months, all the ministries and all the special bodies were doing a cold drive. Therefore, when we refer to the budget achieved last year, it means that we are actually reducing the budget for 2016. I'm asking nicely to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5655	We will join the vote on Amendment 93, which the government does not accept. May we please vote for this proposal? The proposal did not receive the majority of votes required. Thank you. I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the first Deputy Prime Minister and the second Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to join us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the State Budget Proposal. On the basis of Article 91, it's about the fund, it's a little later. Watch the agenda, please. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the State Budget requires most of all MPs, namely 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018. Please, let's vote. Who's up for the proposal? The vote is over. I find that most of the 80 votes we vote for... Therefore, the majority of votes required were adopted by the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and projections for 2017 and the 18th year together with the amendments adopted. [[Applause.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent, proposals for the 2016 financial plans and projections for 2017 and the 18th year. First of all, I am voting in the Decision to give consent to the 2016 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters and projections for 2017 and the 18th year. Please, let's vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that we adopted the necessary majority of 81 votes, i.e. the Decision on granting consent to the 2016 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters and projections for 2017 and 2018. I am now voting on the Decision to give consent to the 2016 Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads and projections for 2017 and 2018. Please, let's vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes, with 82 votes, are required to give consent to the 2016 Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads and projections for 2017 and 2018. I am now voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018. Please, let's vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the 80 votes are required to reach a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018. The HNS representative club submitted an amendment to the proposal of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2016 and the 2017 and 2018 projections. I ask the Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and the Nature of Mr. Maria Shiljeg to give the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5656	Dear Mr. President, it is up to the government of the Republic of Croatia that the amendment is not accepted. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on 23.12.2014 on the procedure for the implementation of road skating projects in the Republic of Croatia because of the exceptional situation at the time, although the projects are responsible for Croatian roads d.o.o. and the County Road Authority. These activities do not constitute a programme priority of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, unlike the energy efficiency in the housing sector and the position at which the HNS Representatives' Club is called in its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5657	Thank you very much. I now ask the applicant's representative, I think it is the distinguished representative Maria Puh, to make a statement on the amendment or an explanation submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5658	Thank you, Mr. President. I express great regret that you do not accept this amendment, namely the occurrence of the glider is an elemental disaster that has affected not only our Krapina-Zagorian County but also other counties. There are also Varazdinska, Međimurje County and as far as I'm concerned, the Carlovak County. It is only endangered in the Krapina-Zagorje County of 67 houses. In 67 houses, people live, and living conditions aren't exactly safe. I don't want to be part of a delegation one day that's gonna bring these people containers because if we get to that stage that cans should be brought in, then we're really already in a very big problem. I'm asking you all to deal with this skating problem together. It's also an elemental accident like the elemental flood accident last year, and I'm asking you to help us because the damage is going to be bigger and bigger. You know for a fact that when the slides go down, they tear everything down in front of them. So I'm asking you to find a way to get rid of it in any other item. And I also ask you to vote for our amendment that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5659	Thank you very much. Now we will vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's for the amendment, please? The vote is over. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Thank you very much. I am now voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2016 and the 2017 and 2018 projections. Please join the vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I would like to point out that with a majority of 80 votes, a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018 has been adopted. I am now voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018. Please, let's vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the 81 votes are required to reach a decision on granting consent to the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2016 and the 2017 and 2018 projections. I am now voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018. Please, let's vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the 81 votes are required to reach a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2016 and the projections for 2017 and 2018 and the financial plans of the budgetary users prior to their publication in the National Journal." That's what we have to vote on, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's up for it? The vote is over. I find that most of the 127 votes have reached a conclusion in the text as proposed by the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point and we move to the next point - Final draft law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, second reading, P.Z. No. 16. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution and Article 211 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Act have been adopted into the boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Regional Development of EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Labour and Pensions and the Social Partnership, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, here you go, Minister of Finance, the esteemed Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5661	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Literally one sentence, though a little longer, but 30 seconds. The law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 regulates revenues, receipts, expenditures, expenditures of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and its implementation, the scope of government guarantees, public debt management and financial and non-financial assets, encouraging measures in the economy, the use of own and dedicated revenues and receipts of budgetary users, the rights and obligations of beneficiaries of budgetary resources and other issues related to the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5662	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we've got a couple of registered counseling clubs. First, the Club of Representatives of the HNS Liberal Democrats, the esteemed Vesna Pusic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Dear Boris Miletic on behalf of the club IDS Furio Radin. He's losing his right to debate. Honorable Pupovac representative, HDSS Reformers Club. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker withdraws his application. Honorable representative Gordan Maras as an individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And the esteemed representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The closing words won't be. That concludes the debate. So we will also vote on this law when the conditions are met, i.e. Monday will be a vote on both of these laws. Thank you very much and congratulations for holding out. Tomorrow for the prize we start an hour later, according to that at 10:30 and we start at the point, so 3. Final draft law supplementing the State Border Control Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The 11th that will be, the debate will be the unification with point 4. Final draft law supplementing the Defence Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 12. Thank you very much. SESSION Interrupted at 2400 hours We would now go to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, second reading, P.Z. No. 16. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by the HNS Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, as was the case with the 6th Amendment on the State Budget, allow me, therefore, to list the units of local self-government to which this amendment would grant aid fall within the category of mountain-mounted areas which have since 2015, in view of their development, lost the status of the assisted area and which, in the previous year, had the right to transitional assistance due to the loss of that status. As changes to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional and regional self-government are under way in 2015, they have lost the right to... Help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Government therefore does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5665	Thank you. On behalf of the amendment promoter, the esteemed representative Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5666	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, it wasn't when you didn't accept our amendment that we submitted earlier, it was expected that you wouldn't accept this amendment either. I believe that you are familiar with the full analysis of the consequences of the law and not only the abolition of the mountain-mountan status of individual units of local self-government but also the tax policy that was. So many units of local self-government have made far less income than it was projected in law making could be displayed. With this amendment, we wanted to redistribute within the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development, precisely in the position that units single from income tax 1.5% of what is accumulated in the state budget. In the year of last year, there were around 147 million kunas of money that were neutral, to be given to these units by this amendment. And according to the regional development minister's announcements and according to the views of this government and the Democratic Coalition of the Most that a review of the development index will be made, that a part of the reform procedure will be made regarding the financing of local self-government units precisely because many units of local self-government that have lost their status practically becomes questionable their basic funding, also means functioning. Practical means exist not to disrupt the expenditure side but precisely those funds that were not spent last year to spend in this year and to get one out of those units and I hope that if we accepted this amendment it was about 62 million kuna. So that's how the state budget is at a loss of over 80 million kuna if we go to watch it that way. I'm sorry you won't accept that. Of course, you send one message not only to the leaders' units but also to the citizens themselves, how much you care about respecting a particular situation for local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-15-0.u5667	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? ... We will join the vote on an HNS amendment that the government does not accept. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who's up for that amendment? The vote is over. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. Please, let's vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the 80 votes are required to pass the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. Thank you very much. With this, we have actually completed this budget-related set of votes and we are going to vote on discussed drafts of the law, strategies, etc., which we have discussed this week.
