ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1476	Good morning, everybody. We continue the session with the agenda as scheduled and now it is: - Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2014 The report is submitted by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development under Article 16. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. You've received the material into the boxes. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Please welcome the Honorable Director of the National Foundation of Ms. Cvetana Plavša-Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1477	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs under the Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development have established the obligation to report to the Foundation on its work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament as well as to the general public in the Republic of Croatia. The annual work report for 2014 was presented to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament on 9 April last year. The report contains a review of the work, achievements and new developments in the operation of the national foundation. A review of the programme implemented by the Foundation, the annual financial report for 2014, as well as a list of all financed actions, projects, institutional support for the multi-annual support of the development cooperation programme, partnerships, research, international development cooperation projects, the knowledge centre programme for social development and the list of approved awards in 2014. In 2014, 11 years of action was completed in the field of supporting the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. Several achievements marked work in that year. First, we have actively continued to work as an implementing body for the management of EU funds intended for organised civil society. It is also an achievement that donors, i.e. the Kingdom of Norway and the countries involved in the European Economic Area, have chosen us to implement the civil society programme in the Republic of Croatia. The Europe Plus programme has also been successfully implemented, which provides for normal liquidity, a smooth liquidity for 69 civil society organisations that have approved projects from EU funds and thus made the absorption of funds more effective. A step has also been made in the field of the inclusion of new types of civil society organisations in the institutional area, primarily alliances and associations of persons with disabilities, youth associations and youth associations and associations from the Homeland War. And the introduction of new forms of development cooperation has opened up an area of support for the development of philanthropy and foundation, the active role of civil society organisation in rural development, pilot solidarity programme 10, investment in social and social cultural centres in local communities, ethical financing of the quality system of civil society organisations and methodology for measuring the social impact of civil society organisations. The National Foundation successfully concluded in 2014 and supported the continuity for 486 financial support and related activities of civil society organisations deployed in all Croatian counties, which enabled employment or employment relations for a total of 829 persons, which is extremely important at the time of recession and the inclusion of a total of 7 637 volunteers and volunteers in local community development projects and the democratisation of Croatian society with multiple impact on improving the quality of life of citizens and citizens of our country, increasing the level of social capital, promoting and protecting human rights, protecting the environment, sustainable development, including in various ways of disfellowshipped groups in society, building democratic institutions of society, developing social entrepreneurship, facilitating poverty and re-recognition of values, empathy and solidarity among people. Our contribution to integration and synergies through a different action focused on the development and vision of active citizenship in a modern democratic and inclusive society is presented in this annual report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1478	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The Honorable representative Sanja Putica first appeared on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1479	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, as we could see today, we are discussing the report in this case of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development of 2014 which has already passed the Government and the Parliamentary Committee on Finance in the previous term. But reading this report, which is quite exhaustive and detailed with the developed objectives of this foundation, their realization, their arguments and all the activities of the foundation that exists in '13. The continuity of this foundation's programme, competitions as well as the annual increase of trust participants, cooperation associations of institutions say that trust programmes are of major quality necessary to support the budgets of local communities very often cannot bear the burden of their own functioning, let alone to assist the development of civil society associations through their funding. I especially want to focus on the collaboration of the foundation with young people, the incentive to volunteer, the charity work. And it also introduces year-to-year innovations into its activities and those concerning the programme and those concerning the way the foundation is financed. It is also known that the Foundation has adopted a strategy for its activities from 2012 to 2016 and has set five strategic objectives. I sincerely hope that in this year too, we will get a further strategy of the operation of this foundation so that we can see in advance as parliamentary representatives and the Parliamentary Committee on Finance what these are programmes that the Foundation plans in its future action. Special co-operation of the foundation with the local community, regional and local self-government units as well as with educational institutions should also be mentioned. Foundation programmes are mostly long-term whose impact on the local community is not short-term and often directly affect the quality of life of the local community and the population. And I think there is plenty of room in this area to improve such programmes so that they can be even more direct and effective in their impact on local communities in the Republic of Croatia. Given the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, the Foundation has also been given the opportunity to finance from the European Social Fund. There is also cooperation with other foundations of similar objectives and activities. We know that this foundation is the national coordinator for the euro Mediterranean Foundation for Dialogue between the cultures of Anna Lindh. But it should be said that in the foundation there is also a step towards some better public availability of the foundation and its programs through two pages or the portal of civil society hr. and for the sake of hr. This way I would just like to say and suggest that it would be good for these portals and media to remain deprived of any political action. The report can also read how many associations, programmes and institutions have been financed for many years through the programme of this Foundation and that the amount of funds delivered through the Trust Units that apply to it and the associations that apply it is significant in this regard and I sincerely hope that the beneficiaries of all the financial resources coming from the Foundation submit regular financial reports of the Foundation on how to use these funds. And that this means that there is one suggestion to be balanced and properly distributed to all groups in society and all those competing for trust programmes. A large and growing number of civil society organisations is also observed, which is in any case an indicator of the democratisation of Croatian society and the strengthening of the civil sector. Here on behalf of the club we will support this report just here I say, with a note that it would be good to work the foundation into the future, especially that public action and advertising remain deprived of any political influence and that these funds are indeed evenly distributed to all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1480	Thank you very much. We have one replica. It is the esteemed representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1481	Thank you, Mr. President. Your colleague Putica in his debate here on behalf of the HDZ Club has pointed out twice how important it is that portals and civil society hr. and others managed and managed by the Civil Society Development Foundation remain deprived of any political influence. You also stressed that it is important to deploy funds to groups in society in an equal and correct manner. Since you have not explained what kind of political influence could have been done so far and what kind of political influence you expect in the future, here is an opportunity for you to explain to me in response to the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1482	Thank you. The distinguished representative Sanja Putica will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1483	In doing so, I thought that civil society as a part of our society would generalise on which we all want to help and to which we are quite sensitive mainly because it is groups of societies that are not always equally legal to deprive us of the public vote of any political influence. So we can think evenly of such groups on all sides and all political groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1484	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the HSLS Club, Buz will speak to the esteemed representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1485	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, respected Mrs. Plavša-Matic, colleagues and fellow MPs. The 2014 report on the work of the National Civil Society Development Foundation argues that the National Foundation has introduced additional stability and sustainability of civil society organisations through more than 43 million kunas invested in activities for the general good, enabling employment for a total of 829 people, and that the use of EU funds has been successfully improved. It has also been pointed out that in recent years it has been observed, according to a projectation of the activities of civil society organisations, and accordingly the National Foundation has begun working to create a new model of support, the thematic fund democratisation the development of civil society two zeros into which the initial 15 million kunas of financial assets have been invested. In view of the above and in view of the large amount spent precisely in this model, we at HSLS BUZ consider it necessary to inform the general public about the course of implementation of the same and the concrete objectives that it achieves. As regards investment in the development of the associations themselves, the report says that the most funds have been given to organizations dealing with democratisation with the total amount of 9 million 635 thousand 170 kuna, while at least it has been allocated to youth associations, and we all know the situation in which young people are presently located in the Republic of Croatia. We think it should be further stimulated. In view of the fact that the report itself states that the future, therefore, since the category of democratisation of society is extremely fluid in us and broad terms, and these are projects that are represented in a significant amount, we consider it desirable to be operationalised in such a report, and that it shows in a transparent way what concrete activities and which projects of the associations that have been allocated are, for example, the funds of up to 400,000 kuna, and which are the practical results of their activities. Since there are unclear criteria on the basis of which one organisation receives more or less resources, it would be fair to display differences in the scope of the activities of the number of members, the ambition of the associations themselves and the social impact that these civil society organisations have on society itself. The report also mentions the need for standardisation and a unique method applicable to civil society organisations in Croatia as scheduled for 2015. The report will certainly be interesting to study to gain the metric values of the social impact of civil society organisations in Croatia. Finally, there is a question of a large number of publicly funded associations and the purpose of survival. We all know that one part of the organization exists, while there is also a series of genders that deal with practically the same problem, and they also get resources separately. It is also a question of whether it is possible to rationalise the whole system in a way that connects and connects associations dealing with the same area of action to avoid the professionalisation of civil society and the misuse of public funds. Whether in the Republic of Croatia, in particular given the current economic situation in the country, three independent bodies are needed to monitor the development of civil society. I quote the Office for the Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Council for Civil Society Development as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. So three institutions that practically cover the same area. Finally, it is inevitable to ask several important questions. What are the reasons why we are getting this report from a year of delay, since the report indicated that the return... The neutrons in 2014 point to an increase in new sources of funding especially from EU funds, which tells us about the necessity of so high subsidies from associations by the National Foundation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how is it returned that neutral means are further exploited in the trust itself? Does the foundation, for example, intend to achieve effective cooperation with other ministries other than the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Ministry of Defence? Does it make sense to grant financial support to associations at this level through the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, Regional Foundations, in particular when taking into account the fact that significant financial resources are also allocated to associations from the positions of ministries, government associations, units of local, regional (area) self-government. There are therefore inevitable EU funds, as well as private donors, various corporations and foundations. There is an impression of an unsustainable multiplier of the source of funding for associations where part of the costs are borne by taxpayers, therefore it is necessary to clarify this problem. In conclusion, respected MPs and MPs, given everything, it is the impression that the report is indeed written in a concise manner and thus we give one recognition and that it provides useful information on a number of innovative and commendable actions that took place in 2014 but that there is no more concrete information about the activities of certain organisations that are taken for granted. We also believe that no report can be fully positive, and in order to avoid any further considerations, difficulties and critical consideration of the work of the associations should include some potentially unfavourable elements, as well as expressed plans to improve the shortcomings in the system of financing and control of associations. The HSLS Club and the Retirement Block together will support such a report which is good, concisely, precisely. But we also expect these very constructive proposals to be accepted to improve the very association and further development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1486	Thank you very much. There is also a replica on your presentation and it is the distinguished representative of Karoline Leaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1487	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Hrebak, you called the report concise. It's given here on 125 pages, I don't know if it's concise. But anyway, it's transparent. What I would really refer to in this replica is your statement that you are not sure that the three independent bodies of the Foundation Board and the Office for the Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as those who monitor the financing, or follow the implementation of projects of civil society organisations that receive public funding. I would say that it seems to me that it is precisely necessary to have all these three bodies, independent bodies, because you colleagues have questioned the transparency of the finances of the associations and the transparency of their project objectives. So it seems to me that as much as possible, therefore, surveillance, as much control and as much partnership between civil society, between public institutions, but of course between citizens and citizens and authorities and civil society organisations can contribute to achieving the objectives, which are, of course, the democratisation of society. And if you are, which is very unusual to me here, that democratisation by you is some kind of fluid concept that you don't know how to measure, so what are the criteria that measure the democratisation of a society. I hope this isn't an announcement of a reduction in funds to civil society organisations and I hope this isn't putting civil society organisations under some kind of state control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1488	Thank you. The distinguished representative Dario Hrebak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1489	Dear Representative Leakovic, I was very clear. And I'm still coming from the Liberal Party. Your subjective evaluations and assessments of what I said were very unfounded. So, I don't see what's wrong with the fact that Croatia is all we know already bureaucratized enough, to set up various committees of different supervisory bodies, various bureaucratic obstacles. I don't see what's wrong with the fact that there's only one roof body that will allocate funds based on criteria, based on programs, based on the fact that we distinguish quality associations from those that are passive. On the other hand, these three bodies, which I have listed, have not only the role of supervision but also the role of allocation. My clear guideline was to have three different bodies allotting funds. I don't think we're going to lose to transparency or the quality of the work of the organizations themselves, but let's say we organize this whole system to function very effectively. We're all aware of the economic crisis we're in. This does not mean that we will reduce the resources necessary for the work of the associations because it will certainly contribute to the non-quality of the associations themselves and the inability to work, but rather we will try to operationalise and rationalise the entire system to be more efficient, cheaper, to the benefit and associations and to the taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1490	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, the word will be given to the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1491	Dear Mr. President, Madam Director of the Foundation, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament discusses every year the Report of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development and, above all, because of new colleagues and colleagues who are first in the Croatian Parliament, let me remind me of a historical course that will explain the course of development to a great extent, so the infrastructure that serves the non-governmental sector on behalf of the state. I can't possibly skip one period from the end of the '90s when the government's relationship would say government organisations and the non-governmental sector are at a critical low level. It was a time of difficult lunches at the expense of the NGO sector. However, the time at which an extremely positive change occurred, primarily dependent on the person of a proactive character who, as Deputy Prime Minister, then founded a virtually new government attitude towards the NGO sector, is Mrs. Ljerka Mintas-Hodak. In her term, the government has taken huge steps to begin understanding each other but also to work together on the government-governmental sector's relation. On the basis of this understanding, the Office for the Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was created, the first institution of such a type that has, over several years, developed actually great communication channels towards a whole series of sectors belonging to NGOs. A step forward was certainly the establishment of a Council for Civil Society Development as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where representatives of the sector were also chosen on a public call but also representatives of individual cabinets. In this advice, which was at first responsible even for the distribution of funds, in fact, a mutual policy of cooperation was crushed and practice improved. Especially since one system of distribution was inherited through the ministries. This practice was extremely uneven, so one ministry published competitions in February, the second in October, the third in May by completely different criteria and with different mechanisms. It was almost impossible to track where, how and why money comes from the state budget when it comes to users in the NGO sector. This practice in the first 3 years of the work of the council has been significantly changed, improved, standardised. So another step forward was certainly the establishment of a National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which, as an autonomous organism, was tasked with providing funds to be made available from the budget, or from gambling funds, to start a transparent and efficient distribution according to the highest standards possible. It has been learned year after year, the foundation has been created with a very good will but also what we call knowing how of the best that were then in Europe. I would dare say that the practice of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development entered the EU long, long before the Republic of Croatia was adopted because standards were actually adopted, procedures were adopted, technology was adopted and were adopted as the most important transparent models and criteria by which someone could apply, could go through the evaluation process and eventually get the funds. This is the time, if you remember, of the ever smaller and smaller detachment from the state budget regarding distribution towards the NGO sector and the opening of the NGO sector to other sources of funding. These were once pre-accession funds, different funds that encouraged the development of institutions, the development of civil society in order to prepare Croatia and its society as soon as possible and better prepared to join the EU, and later today many of those organisations that have received institutional support from a foundation that has, in the meantime, been capacitated to the extent that they can, know and do, actually go slowly from domestic sources of funding to those others and in any case, more productive ones originating from the EU. The Foundation as such and the entire system that has been built, so from the Office of Association, then the Council for Civil Society Development and the Foundations and neither, nor the other, nor the third overlap in their responsibilities at all but each performs their part of the task is actually a model of what is so well-developed there is no southerner than Austria. And that's something Croatia can be proud of because I say it learned from the best and set standards long before everyone else, especially in ours, which Minister Kovac would say to the neighborhood. The capacity of the foundation has grown from year to year, the needs are always far greater than what it is available to but therefore the criteria have been tightened and the foundation has come to this level that those who manage it, so the people sitting on the trust's board have virtually no contact with specific programmes and decision-making on the level of funds because this is done by a whole series of expert committees established and operated on sectoral issues, i.e. issues dealing with individual sectors in associations. It is the Management Board of the Foundation that practically refers to what professional people propose and so far has not happened that by imposing its will, the Management Board has destroyed what the expert committees have done. However, in order to understand better, we need to know that there is a whole series of still isolated systems through which civil society associations are financed not only in the social community but also in the defence population, when it comes to some other organisations dealing with specific tasks. So let's not view the foundation as the only and exclusive channel through which public funds are distributed towards the NGO sector. And in that sense, we are neither backwards nor worse than others at all, and even more so, what bothers us is that many ministries continue to practice direct communication with their sub-sectors in fact downgraded the criteria or otherwise set certain conditions, and it is still happening that some ministries of funding from the current year are advertising through competitions only in October of the current year. It is therefore completely incomprehensible because every year, at the latest in December, we know what the budget means that it takes the ministry ten or eleven months to decide on the call for tenders and the allocation of those funds. However, when it comes to the national foundation itself, she took a huge step, not because someone ordered it, but because the nature of the situation required it, and a large number of associations from the field prayed to access the decentralisation of the system, regionalisation of distribution because it turned out, you know it yourself, that the organisations that were always capacitated in Zagreb or closer to Zagreb, better educated, human teaming in a way that could always suggest and come up much better, more creative and on paper more interesting projects, so there was always a imbalance between what was actually placed on Zagreb space and its region compared to other regions in Croatia. Decentralisation through the regional foundations you've been seeing here, and it's been working for many years, has actually shown a great step towards actually meeting and associations that work in smaller communities, which are dealing with social cohesion, which are dealing with social integration with smaller capacities, with somewhat different human capacity, but indeed with valuable ideas and valuable creations. You can't see from this, except from this data on the funds returned, in fact, how hard, rigorous I would say to the police systems of the government as regards the control of the funds spent in relation to the trusts and those who received the funds. I don't know any other financier in the Republic of Croatia who so carefully, so strictly and sometimes very closely monitors how funds have been spent. So these are sudden controls, continuous evaluations, it's document control. He's right, colleague Hrebek, when he says that this is one report, in fact, concise because if you saw how many tons of material comes into the foundation every year, and these are the materials that follow applications for programs and if someone asked for more detailed reports, believe that this would be a much bigger scale than we get in three months here as Parliament's representatives. Therefore, it is not possible to place all the information up to the details, but what is possible therefore is that anyone interested at any time of the day can practically enter the target into any segment conditionally and control how these models operate, how these decision-making systems work and ultimately how the spending of funds is controlled. The Foundation also has one educational centre as you know it, I would like it to be much more and much more widely used because it still takes a lot of education for all those working in the NGO especially when it comes to changes in the regulations. You know that the Croatian Parliament has changed a series of rules regarding accounting, the financial operations of NGOs, of course, depending on their status, size and traffic that they achieve but definitely always to associations, especially because over 95% of them do not have professional discipline but only volunteers always need professional support, they always need education. And let's not forget one more thing, most of the public when it comes to the NGO sector are experiencing it according to the largest associations that are formally in the status of associations. Or that they were founded under a special law. I won't be throwing myself at percentages now, but it turns out that associations like the Croatian Red Cross, Croatian Autoclub, are big sports clubs. So they're actually the biggest users of public funds and it has nothing to do with the trust or what we call civil society in a narrow sense. So let's not confuse these concepts, all that is happening and it's bad and what has been proposed to the public as abuse, as non-transparent spending, as controversial cases have never had to do with associations that refer to budget funds or gambling funds through national trusts, it always turns out that it is actually some other associations that are not supervised in such an effective way as those who monitor the national foundation. And finally, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party Club of Liberal Democrats will also support this year's report, welcoming therefore and still the strength of the foundation that has great treasure property, so stability and long-term sustainability of more than 50 million kunas, and therefore we can be proud to have such a conditionally spoken institution and what that segment of civil society that goes to social cohesion, to education, to working with children and young people, to work on political education and civil conditionality, to worry about the environment, to worry about all the key problems that we face daily, in which the state is inferior because there is not enough capacity to solve them. On the other hand, the NGO provides 5 times more energy for 5 times less resources, so that we can be proud and satisfied that this system works well. Of course, it's always funny that there's no ideal and there's always the possibility that public funds are being misused, but I repeat all the cases that we know are mainly related to other associations and not to those that apply to the funds of the foundation. In this sense, in the name of the HNS Club, we also thank the management of the foundation and the director for holding this quality flag high, sometimes too high, so that some associations and rebels cannot meet such high criteria, but the foundation has been helping them to be better for years, so that they can sometimes come into a position that they can rightly count on a part of these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1492	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1493	Dear colleague Beus Richembergh, in most of your exposure, I agree. I agree that the level of the Civil Society Development Foundation is sufficient, not only enough, but also European standards, well-organised, organised and above the average level of the organisation but what is even more important and transparent. Where we disagree essentially, we do not agree in just one way, that given the large amounts of resources allocated at the annual level for the development of civil society, we personally consider that the whole area that is related to the trust, so also with the organisation of the distribution of funds related to the three institutions participating in the same distribution is a little too much. So three institutions dealing with a very similar activity think it's too bulky. As I said and mentioned, the administration in Croatia is too big anyway, and I think the citizens see it. Personally, I think this kind of foundation, so this kind of level of organization, could be very likely to bear it on its own. And I don't think it would in any way affect the quality and satisfaction of the work of the associations themselves. Just as I have pointed out and I believe that you will agree, it is urgent and important to improve the system and criteria as well as how the funds are allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1494	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1495	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Hrebak, indeed here I am asking you if you can pay a little attention and get a little deeper into this problem, you will indeed see that on the one hand the Government's Office of Associations, which is the Government's body representing the Government, its policy. On the other hand, the Council for Civil Society Development which is a bridge, a dialogue bridge between the Government and the NGO sector which has no executive function but only advises the Government on what to do to improve these relations. And on the third hand, a trust that is a completely independent body, which does not represent a state, which is only responsible for the distribution of that part of the public funds that it receives at its disposal. So these are completely three different levels with three completely different tasks. If you don't have it separately, then you have a centralized system in which abuse among other things is possible by the state. That system is developed into three because of the pressure from the outside that he said you can't share money that way because it's completely non-transparent. So the government alone without the influence of anyone on the side, without the influence of experts, must not in this way share money because sooner or later by its nature, by the nature of bureaucracy, it will happen to someone and not to build stable and permanent systems. As for what you said about the administration. When you look at how much money there is, you can't do it through a volunteer system or through a small unit where there will be two employees. Only an evaluation when you want to see who, what and how it spends requires a huge engagement of people. Because look, this is about hundreds and hundreds of organizations that are not only in Zagreb, they are associations from Ilock to Dubrovnik. So you and the regional foundations have to be kind of a monitor. And in every way possible to make it play by the same rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1496	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1497	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've made it very clear that there are hundreds and hundreds of associations here that have achieved their goals and plans, that the criteria for obtaining support from the National Foundation are clear and that they are strictly controlled. I would just add, perhaps it is good to put into criteria and what would be the national interests of all the associations above all, national interests in action, expression and truth should be the criterion and criteria that all these associations should also have in their description. It happens that between these associations there are also those who have acted many times against Croatian interests and who are many times with me I would say with half truths or closer to lies characterize certain events from the Homeland War, certain people from the Homeland War, and this should also be in the National Foundation criterion and criteria whether they acquire or do not obtain support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1498	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1499	As the president of your party said yesterday that ethical and political responsibility is a very fluid issue. You know, that's how we can tell what a national interest is. For someone the national interest is only what has the express Croatian omens. For someone, it's a national interest what has a civil omen, for someone, it's a civil interest which is extremely critical of everything. So, at the base of everything philosophical. Now it's just a question of what you want as a good thing for your country – oneness or plurality. Do you in any way want the official truth to be declared and that we live in a society of official truth, or do you want to keep searching for it? I'm always more inclined to this other one. So, a constant critical shift, a constant doubt or a skeptic, that intellectual skeptic who will never agree to one truth. Why? Because we are not alone in the world we live in and we are not in any way invited to monopolize the truth only of our time. Because, unfortunately, whether we want it or not, when we're all in the horizontal, someone else is actually going to be estimating the truth about me and you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1500	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists the word will be given to the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1501	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say immediately that we at the Croatian Labour Club will support this report. We consider it very detailed, transparent and in any case a form of how reports should be made. But a few words. Civil society is all we know is some kind of legitimacy of the creativity and freedom of one community, one society, meaning one social partner who does those jobs that others don't want, won't, can't, can't, for various reasons. In other words, it's a segment, an interspace between state and society. In this context, the National Foundation is very important for the development of civil society, especially for smaller organisations. I come from Osijek, Osijek is a relatively small town but with a developed civil scene. And exactly the National Foundation is important for the development of these NGOs NGOs, civil society associations that actually do a very important job then. These organisations are usually very difficult to compete for funds and for funds on the international agenda of European and international. And therefore, the foundation is their only source or main source of evaluation of their programmes and the funding of their programmes. But this foundation model is recognized, I think it was said here if not, it should be repeated by a very successful model of how to support civil society and at international level, so representatives of government institutions and countries in transition often come looking for information from the foundation how it is actually done. So it's kind of how to tell instructions and paradigms how it can be done. Unless... the financing of organisations approved in annual tenders according to clear and pre-defined criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here would be the criteria. It's about clearly defined criteria, at least in my opinion. And in general, when it comes to the controls and criteria of the foundation, I think it's brought in within what's possible, of course, to some kind of let's say perfection. That may be too much of a word, but about that. So, you're opening up a pre-financing and co-financing space that allows for the realisation of the ventures for which the EU has approved the funds only after the receipt. The Foundation invests in the development of philanthropy especially through the development of regional foundations. We said the puzzle Osijek, a swing in Zagreb that also supports inter-citizen initiatives. It's about what the trust in my opinion is about why it's important and it helps in some way if I laugh, it might be a joke, but it helps everything from left-handed to angry right-handed. In this context, when it is said that the trust must be depoliticalised, it must not be politicised. Well, of course it's not, and it can't be politicized, but you can't deprive an association of worldsmen. People who work in associations do have some of their own lights whether I agree with them or not. But we are aware, we see a certain tendency to marginalise certain segments of civil society which is not good. I say we can go out of the world view, we can get along as some MPs when we see associations we disagree with as a sign of disagreement as they speak more about these people than they do about associations. But in any case, they are part of whatever omens they have, if we can say so, not only politically, but worldly, then the foundation has actually fulfilled that function by me because it simply funds everything, or helps programs of all of those who protect human and civil rights to those who are engaged in caritative activity. In Croatia today, there are a huge number of associations, which is 53 271 associations according to the latest data. One question is actually how many of these associations actually work, how many really do these associations only exist on paper, and how much does it really work. It is also very important to warn of the fact that in civil society associations, many people are employed, and that is when the objections go to that side that as before those who have dealt with the non-governmental sector have been declared Soroše's mercenaries today, this is said of social benefits that are thus used, do nothing and use other people's money, taxpayers' money. The contribution of civil society to this community is enormous, but let us not forget another important thing that is very important when it comes to the civil sector, that, apart from hiring a large number of people, it also solves through its programmes a large number of social issues and problems, which is also very important. Of course it's not the primary segment but also through its activity and it does. And so much when we talk about the criterion that was often mentioned here as a dispute, I think the criteria are neither civil or national, the patriot can't be a criterion, the criterion is a simple value. The value of the program you offer and behind which you are ready to stop. It is said that different types of channels are additionally funded by individual civil society associations. It exists but it's not the subject of this report and it's not the subject of the foundation, is it? It's actually the subject of maybe this Parliament and local and regional authorities, the state that actually allows these funds to flow past the foundation. And it's said that we should cut resources for the foundation because there's too much of these associations, they don't really have, we don't have much use for them. I think it would be a big mistake to cut funds. I'm aware of the situation as well as anywhere, everyone's asking for more, and there's less and less but in some things you can't just pay for these things and the value. So I keep the level of resources on the one that is acceptable to the development of civil society. So we accept this report anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1502	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1503	Your Honor, my colleagues, listening to this debate about NGOs, I'd say what these NGOs are doing. Not these associations, for example, for the protection of animals or Croatian Autoclub, but for those responsible for the construction of a functional society. I'd give them not an "A" but a "A" in the last 20 years. Are there associations in Croatia dealing with the modernisation of the legal system? We've got a legal system with totally unsettled laws, one legal crime that's being interpreted every day that can't even be broken down by legal experts. We have a red tape that looks more like Romania back there when Ceauescu was there. Is there any association that deals with when we talked about the Homeland War on the Homeland War? There are associations that draw money not only from the state budget but from the outside. DOCUMENTA, which receives hundreds of thousands of euros from other countries but while HHO, the Serbian HHO condemned Serbia's aggression against the Republic of Croatia, has never been said by these allegedly Croatian NGOs. Is there an association in Croatia, for example? Like a memorial in Russia that deals with decommunization? And that is the biggest problem of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1504	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1505	Your Honor, I thank you. Comrade Jaroslava, you said at one point that for the financing of associations is a bigger problem with those detours and channels, or you said that it was not a problem, and I'm replicating and I say it really is a problem because I think that every segment of all associations within the Republic should really be passed through the National Foundation. If it cannot be financially covered then at least those rigorous criteria that the National Foundation has as an opinion on the financing of such associations can. And that's why I advocate that the National Foundation, where it can't give financial support criteria, can give its opinion, so when they give their opinion on the basis of rigorous criteria, it can't happen that I'm going to say, in a political way, that they get funding and that public funding in a way that very often you have associations consisting of only 3 members because they have formed such an association. So many activists, so many users. And that's how they finance themselves. I'll say, I've come from a local administration whose head I've been at for 11 years, and I'll say it's sad, and I agree with one of the speakers here, that indeed Mrs Mintas-Hodak has started a positive direction towards funding associations in the Republic of Croatia. And I have to say it went pretty well, up to three, four years ago. On a personal example in my city, imagine a situation where nuns formed in the organization take care of 25 percent disabled, abandoned disabled, and are deprived of the permeable funding elementally for heating. On the other hand, the association that I will repeat has three members because it is enough to form, so many activists and so many users can finance their entire salary all three members all year round. Indeed, this is not appropriate, and we must change it in a way that if the trust cannot be financed, it can give its position and see who will react in this way within politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1506	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1507	... to what you said about bypassing funding. [[Specially enabled.]] I didn't say it wasn't a problem, of course it's a problem, it's not a foundation problem. The Foundation cannot control, act in a way that what individual ministries do, for example. I'm not talking about funding projects on local and regional self-government. Every city, every municipality has its own programs and it finances it. It's not an object and it's not about funding and channelling, but actually it's about, here's a banking example of a whole series of financial resources being allocated from the level of different positions in the ministry, for example, to associations coming from the sphere, let's say religious life that I don't say otherwise, and it's clear that there are contracts between the Church and the State, where the Church is funded very clearly and very precisely. Therefore, the additional delivery of these funds is, in my opinion, pointless beyond the trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1508	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1509	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pecnik, I would agree with you in that part of your debate where you said we couldn't expect civil society organisations, or NGOs not to represent certain values, I absolutely agree. The values that I would support, i.e. those defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and which certainly many civil society organisations represent are the values of antifascism, the values of gender equality, the rights of gender and sexual and all other minorities in Croatian society. And that is for me, these are values for me that must be imitated by all associations dealing with civil education or democratisation of Croatian society against attempts to actually finance public money also by those associations that are absolutely opposed to the constitutionally defined values on which the modern Croatian state rests. What I would like to appeal to is actually an attempt in some way seems to me to be the political pressure we already feel here in the Croatian Parliament by some MPs of the parliamentary majority, which is that trying to impose one form or one narrative called here a national interest. This narrative as much as I had the opportunity to hear and sometimes is not in line with the constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia. So I would urge here to continue the independent action of the foundation, or independent ways in which they are financed and then, of course, monitor the achievement of the goals of NGOs against some of the trends that I have seen here and which can also be called political pressures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1510	Thank you. The honourable representative of Pecnik will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1511	I couldn't agree more with you colleagues. Because the values you mentioned I share them with you together, but the fact that we have to be aware that there are people who view values differently. Therefore, we must always be open to the values that we disagree with or do not accept. Therefore, all the values of this society if the values have the right to equal treatment. But in any case, the fact is that really calling on some national interests in this matter is either any political interest is simply ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1512	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1513	Thank you very much. Here we all agree that the development of civil society is most important for democratic society. It controls essentially all processes that occur in society. However, when we talk about the foundation, when we talk about the influence of politics on the foundation on influence, we will not enter it, but the fact that politics should not affect the allocation of funds, if they have three members that have to have a number of millions of kunas or therefore, because of the ideological signs of the association or any sign that the association carries or closeness with the political option on my right or left or with us that we are now new here. The most important criteria and assistance to these associations for the development of democratic society are that they develop through funds, European funds. These may be the most important funds that can be used by civil society development associations mainly persons with difficulties, meaning disabled persons in this society should be given greater importance, and may also have a role as Commissioner in the executive government itself to give these people, to be given the importance that they can be, to give more of themselves and to be rich for Croatia, not to be burdened by Croatian societies. In this direction, we need to direct the most needed associations and, of course, to develop civil society, no selectivity and no ideological division, but the development of civil society to point out what is not good and thus, according to these criteria and exclusively under these criteria, without the influence of the policy of the sharing of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1514	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1515	What I understand, Mr. Bull, and I can agree with that, is what I'm not going to let think about. But what I mean is, what I want to look at, these are EU funds. It is clear that EU funds are not all-powerful, whatever we want to say to improve things we are transferring to EU funds, but this is about a whole series of small NGOs doing a very important job in the local environment but which they cannot and are not up to participating in competitions for EU funds without the help of a trust fund. In that sense, I think the foundation should, that it should look at the value of the trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1516	Thank you. The next one will be the individual debate of distinguished MPs Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1517	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs Plavša-Matić, colleagues and colleagues, here is this annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development is from 2014 which we are unfortunately discussing only now. It's a detailed, transparent and modern document. It is a report that confirms the success of the model that we have in Croatia and which is indeed, as some colleagues have already said, a role model for many other EU and candidate countries and countries, respectively, for those who are preparing to join the EU. And I will certainly support it. Encouraging the development of civil society, involving citizens and citizens, especially young people, building the capacities of civil society organisations and participations in decision-making and at local level, of course, in order to promote development in the interests of citizens in common rather than individual interests managed by centres of power and special capital, I think it is one of the most important roles of civil society or civil society development foundation. As we have already heard and know, of course, civil society organisations are diverse, so they range from animal protection associations to those dealing with society democratisation programmes, then a culture of labour rights or the rights of discriminated groups on all grounds, etc. And I think it is important and it has been seen today in the debate and in knowing how it invests in the development of civil society organisations from which those sources are financed, their projects and programmes, of course, how their obligations and their objectives are being monitored, how their effectiveness and usefulness are actually being measured, in fact, by the activities of the associations and all or a large part of that component of this report. I think it's important to know how associations are financed, how their goals are monitored. It is therefore important to know this because of these calls and threats we have heard in the public and also in the Croatian Parliament, and they have come from some MPs of the parliamentary majority among them, I would also dare say to people with a special understanding of the role of civil society in the democratic, political, economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia. So today, in the House, we also have colleagues who represent open-minded political options, so I would say that I would also say that persecution of unsuspecting people or people who disagree with their political views, those who dare to think and speak, question, criticise and open up a space for debate, who are investigating, who are publishing and are actually looking for an entirely legitimate answer to legitimate questions in our political space. I am not the first to say that in Croatia, the choice of this government has brought into question so far we see freedom of opinion and freedom of speech. So just so yesterday here in the Parliament of fellow Glasnovic heard calls for lustration in the media. Tomorrow, who knows, perhaps, the bans, blackmails, and who knows what methods. And a fellow respected representative of Glavas, last week during a debate on the trust of the Croatian government, very clearly expressed his position against certain associations and, as I said then, and I will repeat today, I find it absolutely unacceptable. The ruling coalition, or some of its representatives, unmistakably set against the two enemies in the first days of the term of office as they see them, immediately recognized them and these are the media on the one hand, and on the other hand they are civil society organisations or at least those dealing with the representation of values as I have said which are the basis of the Republic of Croatia and as such defined in the Constitution. I therefore conclude that, in doing so, colleagues from the ruling coalition have shown not only that they do not know but that they do not value the contribution of all people involved in civil society organisations, such an approach, have brought such attacks into question the programming, financial, project transparency of the activities of these organisations and the integrity of those involved in decision-making in the distribution of financial resources. That's my conclusion. You have put colleagues under question by your attacks on civil society organisations and individuals, perhaps even the competitions that were carried out and on the basis of which only the foundation was based in 2014 because we refer to this period to the approval of 486 support projects and related activities and from the sources listed on the 54th of this report for these activities more than 43 million kunas have been allocated. Unargumented and flat-rate statements about overpaid associations, i.e. as counterpart Djakic has given suggestions to those who do not work in the pursuit of national or state interests, but only as he sees them are there being an atmosphere of impatience, fear and blackmail. The other day we had a march on an independent regulatory body of the Republic of Croatia on the Agency for Electronic Media and yesterday we had a march of those same people or part of the people who attacked Mrs. Rakic at the House of Human Rights. Yesterday, they raided that House of Human Rights and intimidated activists and activists of civil society organisations using that space. It is important to know, colleagues and colleagues, and this is very clear in this report, how the activities of civil society organisations are subject to constant questioning by the competent authorities. The activities of civil society organisations are public and transparent. Support for the action of civil society is democratic, decentralised and takes place in a co-operation relationship or in a partnership. At the end of the volunteer and volunteers of NGOs and NGOs made a significant contribution and this was also spoken by counterpart Beus Richembergh, an unmistakable contribution in the two processes that I would specifically mention here, which is the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union but, therefore, in this period after joining here for almost 3 years, 2.5 years have encouraged a number of debates on important policies of the European Union in which, of course, the Republic of Croatia is contributing. I will highlight to me a particularly important debate on the transatlantic trade investment partnership or on digital Europe, for example. I would also stress the exceptional importance and contribution of volunteers and volunteers members and members of NGOs in the process of accepting refugees in the Republic of Croatia and providing appropriate professional assistance. This report is part of the picture of the contribution of citizens and citizens associated with NGOs in Croatia in relation to what it should be and what I want at least, and I will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1518	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. First to the distinguished representative Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1519	Dear colleagues, the issues of building a functional state are not ideological issues but practical issues. Your party was in power longer than Queen Victoria, she ruled for 80 years, so what do we have today? We have legal punishment, where we have, in Croatia we have 1.2 million pending court cases. Finland has zero. You were in power. Why didn't you publish a list of management loans? You could have done that. You've had plenty of time to dismember all EU legal norms, but we explain to people what a lustration is to the Croatian people. It's not a witch hunt. The first degree of education and education that people know what happened here, because without knowing history we can't... The consequences and causes of what's happening to us today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second degree is the opening of all archives. Where are the archives of the Croatian state? There's something in Belgrade, and it's quite burned or removed. And what's in those archives? Those who got rich, who pulled the money out of here until they were nineties on the side of the company outside, so on. The red managers who are returning today to the... into investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are people who've been ticking people, maybe sitting in the judiciary today, who've been getting four and a half to 14 years to read newspapers. They're ruined family lives. 10% of the former Yugoslavia's population worked for UDBA where the wife was ticking husband, husband wife, etc. It totally destroyed Croatian society. Lustration is lighting. The third is human lustration. How can someone sit in the system if they've been judging a man for four and a half years for saying that Tito painted his hair? That's scary. If we want a true catharsis, let's light it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1520	Thank you very much. She was a respected representative of Sabina Vosovac's violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1521	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Glasovic injured the foundation of Article 236 by misappropriating the replica institution in Article 235 because through the abuse of the replicator institute he did not at any time replicate his colleague Leakovic, but again began to implement his policy yesterday's lustration of the media, the day before yesterday of the lustration I do not know the political inexperience, and today he continued with the attempt of lustration of associations and civil society. Therefore, I ask you to respond to the eclative violation of the Rules of Procedure and the abuse of this business replicator institute, which has been repeated by my colleague Glasović at this session of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1522	As far as colleagues are concerned, I would probably have to react to almost every speech of every representative, because I was in principle yesterday, even yesterday, pointing out that unfortunately, both replicas and individual and even on behalf of the abuse club to talk about topics that are not actually foreseen in the agenda. And if I reacted to that every time, I'm afraid this would turn into a big ban on speech. I'm prone to one measure of course, of course, to let people say what they think. And if they cross one measure, then I've reacted or I'll react. Thank you very much. Next up for the replica, oh sorry. Replication response. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1523	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the answer just by mentioning two things, I don't know which party Mr. Glasnović means. The SDP with coalition partners in 25 years since the independence of the Republic of Croatia was in power 8, perhaps even incomplete 8. And secondly, when you talked about not implementing European legislation as a SDP and adapting Croatia's legislative framework to European norms, I would remind you that a consensus on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU has been reached long ago between the two strongest political blocs. Therefore, we have passed laws that were, laws that must comply with EU legislation in this House, as I remember unanimously. You cannot subscribe, at least to the SDP if it has not done everything to adapt Croatian legislation to EU legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1524	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boban Blaženko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1525	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Caroline, you have, through your debate, marked a number of colleagues here as being special, that they are exclusive when it comes to civil society, and only ten minutes before that, your colleague Pecnik answered you, which means a view of civil society. So all of them are tolerances that look wide left and wide right at civil society, and you are, of course, the only one here for now through this debate. I'll remind you of something else. Thursday before the session where the new Croatian Government was established, on a TV show "Open" I will say, your colleague Mr. Stazic announced a day earlier the gathering of civil associations in front of this honorable House. As it is not politically colored, if one of the representatives from one spectrum knows that the associations will gather tomorrow to protest the formation of a new Croatian government. Very interestingly respected colleagues and therefore please avoid labeling mainly when it comes to civil association in the Republic of Croatia which finally thank God with democratic high steps goes forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1526	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Karolina Leakovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1527	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I have not personally called anyone but based on what colleagues and colleagues from your coalition have said these days how much we have since the appointment and confirmation of the Croatian Government here in the Croatian Parliament and what I have seen in the media can make these conclusions. You have to let me do this. So, I think there are people among you who, by my judgment, have a special understanding of democracy. As for what you just mentioned and that's the information that my colleague Stazic gave on a Croatian TV show, and that protest you're talking about, which happened here on Friday morning, so you had a protest of an entire spectrum of activists and civil society activists against then more candidates for Mr. Hasanbegovic's culture minister because of his views that we also consider in opposition that they are opposed to the values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, that protest was public, not even organized by Mr. Stazic, as far as I know, he didn't join or join him, but he had information like me and like many others who read and watch the media that he was going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1528	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1529	Thank you very much. You colleagues have said that certain fellow MPs have expressed their position on certain associations here at the Assembly speaker. So we're here means plural society, multiparty society, and it can't be one-of-a-kind. I'm glad that everyone here and it's nice that our public hears from every parliamentary representative who has an attitude and you don't have to get along, you can debate in a democratic way. But the way someone commented 10 days ago in the assembly something seems to me like you shouldn't be commenting on something. So I think the assembly is a place where every MP has the right to say what he thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1530	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Karolina Leakovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1531	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't think of anyone here to deny the right to speak, but I don't look forward and I don't support a speech that goes off and threatens, and that's exactly what happened last week. I was just warning you about that. Therefore, in no way would we be in the Croatian Parliament or in public speech, we as policy-makers should support, represent or applaud those who call for persecution, who call for only one kind of national interest that we must represent and who call therefore for impatience towards those who advocate democratic, plural, developed society as Croatia must be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1532	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1533	Your Honor, your Honor, your honor. How can you not answer this question about associations? National minorities are the flowers of the Croatian people. However, in these flowers of the Croatian people there are also them and those associations which, like everyone, must have their own status of work for which they will be advocated, and thus various associations from the area from which I come, especially cultural and artistic societies, which peak in terms of their actions are experiencing in the fall of Vinkova, a cultural event for all of you well-known, our Slavonia. And then all national minorities come and contribute to such a ceremony. It has never happened that an association has arrived and it is called the Cultural and Artistic Society "Sloga Vukovar" to make its contribution to this event and many other associations from some villages. But I'm gonna have to speed it up 'cause my watch's watching me. Mr. Zeljka Sabe visited a paramilitary camp in Banja Junaković near Apatino where children from 10 to 19 years of age were trained in the patriotic front of the Serb war veterans' association '90-99. Their headquarters in Bačka Palanca is the square of brotherhood and unity 21. I think that the accounts that associations, groups of people and from whose budgets are co-financed and funded and encouraged, which are their statutes and what they do in their activities should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1534	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Karolina Leakovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1535	Thank you, Mr. President. The intervention of fellow Culei had nothing to do with what I was talking about but it shows and just confirms what I mentioned, which is that we now see from your side direct, concrete calling and threats. I don't know, colleague Culey, did you look at the consolidated agenda we got? Now you have under point 14. here Report on the audit carried out and the effectiveness of funding programmes of NGOs and institutions of national minorities. It is therefore an ideal opportunity to ask these questions in this context, but not to call now for the persecution of the "Slat" KUD which did not come in the Vinkova autumn. I really don't know who's coming to Vinkovack's fall, and I don't know what CUD "Slog" is, and what you're talking about later, I don't want to comment at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1536	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1537	Dear colleagues, Leaković, today's topic is the debate on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development Report. I don't know how we got from the National Foundation on the subject of the media. We are part of the parliamentary majority, in the parliamentary majority there are people who have been elected on their party lists who have received their support. You and I may not have to agree with Mr. Glasnović, but he certainly has the right to say what he's saying. Another thing I'd like to mention is that questioning this entire system of working with associations is legitimate, which is why MPs are chosen to question. What I think is not good is that you've gone, for example, to the side, to the media, to the issue of human rights endangerment. I think that many times already in this high home has been said by the HDZ Club of Representatives and by the Club of Representatives of HSLS, Buz and some other clubs that the existing level of human rights in the Republic of Croatia which is at European level will certainly not be reduced, although it can only be improved. So I really don't see why we keep insisting on public fear, the fear of our citizens and the fear of our voters that something will change if it has already been denied several times? And lastly, I think that we should really focus on the subject, not like yesterday, for example, that we are discussing the Rules of Procedure of a certain Commissioner for Information all day and that we are avoiding the whole subject. I therefore appeal to the chairman also to try to point the topic at this good report of the Civil Society Development Foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1538	Thank you. Here is a reply to the replica by the distinguished representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1539	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrebak, thank you for this well-intentioned advice I should talk about when the topic is the report on the work of the Civil Society Development Foundation. I'm going to talk about what the foundation is doing, which is the programs it supports, and of course I can and I will, and no one is going to tell me about it, the way the ruling coalition has been talking about civil society organisations in the last few days, you've never fenced yourself from those who some people here are activists and civil society activists by name and by last name, calling them for their views, calling them for their action and calling them for allegedly non-transparent spending of public money. I've never heard from anyone in your coalition that said no, we don't think the people who were called here by Mr. Glavas were working against national interests on Thursday. Of course we should talk about the media because, at least as I mentioned two days ago, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament from the ruling coalition participated in the attack on the independent regulatory body of the Electronic Media Agency and supported people who indeed committed an act of violence there not only to the president, Mrs Rakic, but also to all the people who work there. Therefore, my colleagues and colleagues and I will talk about problems that have arisen in Croatian society since you were in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1540	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Caroline, it's nice to talk about how in today's country of Croatia there are all rights, how we all have the right to an opinion, attitude, free action, association, political activities, protests, saying it's all nice today. Indeed, the country is democratic, free, but there are things that aren't exactly like that and that through this replica I sent today, you may have concluded wrong. Civilian organizations have the right to work, to act, to everything in their work description and to register. The same country exists with its Constitution and laws as with the truths. And it is hard to understand that some associations declare that there was a civil war in Croatia, that the storm and generals at certain times were characterized as criminals or a criminal undertaking that such representation was sent to The Hague, that it was witnessed and that all things of difficulty and thanks to God and deceptions of equality, sacrifice and aggressor, winners and defeated, truths and lies, political structures and manipulations of civil war, the aggressor and the victim were indeed the focus of certain civil society associations. And that's what I was going to say that that's not how it should be and that the criteria should also be clear on this point, the national criteria of the National Foundation for Civil Society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1542	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Karolina Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djakić, do you have any knowledge that an association, an individual, is working against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the fundamental values written there? Do you have any knowledge that it is against the laws of the Republic of Croatia? Please report it to the authorities. But I ask you nicely not to speak in the Croatian Parliament of national interests as the interests of one political party or one political option, or HDZ, that is all I plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1544	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1545	Dear colleagues, if I have heard well that there are 53,000 associations in Croatia, let me first tell you that I was also the president of an association, of a branch office, of a large association that we trained some 70 students and students of the poor. I didn't want to take the RH funds in my branch first. I felt if I was involved in an association, that we needed something to help ourselves. If it says that 53,000 associations work in Croatia and take funds from a poor country like this and we know that there are associations that need to be who act and really work well and there are also those who take funds and do nothing. And I believe that out of these 53,000 50% we can immediately remove and not have to give them funds from the Croatian Republic, the funds of the Croatian Republic to spend on non-purpose funds because I saw it, because I was the president of that association myself. People wanted the funds to withdraw, to have someone have something. I don't know where you're going to put me now, I'm not a member of the HDZ, I'm not a member of the SDP, I'm not a party, so I'm asking you a question, and I'm asking you a common question is, does a man just have to be in a party to love his country? I love it. I'm also asking like all the other people here to clear up a little bit of this society, to see who, what and who was doing and in the previous state that was mentioned, the lustration, to see which people were damaged, what was all that about. I just want the truth, let's once we've won and have this beautiful state of ours to once bring out the real truth without shame, without shame and for us to go to one normal, I'm certainly for all people living well in this country and respecting this country. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1546	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Karolina Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague if, as you said, you know that some of the funds from the state budget, i.e. the funds for the funding of the associations, were spent in vain, so give it just as I advised my colleague Djakic, please report it to the competent authorities if you have such knowledge. So it seems to me from your debate that you have mistakenly concluded that you have not settled, so you have settled, of course, with the ruling coalition whether that is the case. So you have and you bear some responsibility for what people in the ruling coalition are saying, and you can't sort of get rid of it. I cannot agree with the claims of those who and you are among them, so at least I have concluded that it is a shame to apply in some way to competitions for funding programmes and projects of civil society organisations because this means that you are not able to raise money on your own but rather to take something and then to live on it and not actually contribute to the community. I couldn't possibly agree with that claim that you've actually made here in your replica. It is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to encourage the development of plural civil society and it is an obligation of course and we have done so in the past term, we have passed some new laws, some new regulations, some new rules on the supervision of civil society organisations and in administrative, especially in financial terms, and I have no doubt that this supervision and that control is very rigorous. A colleague Beus said sometimes perhaps, or a ilicolite Pecnik sometimes perhaps even preygorous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1548	Thank you. For discussion, I call upon the esteemed representative of Ladislive Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. One of the fundamental assumptions of the functioning of a democratic society, so the rule of the people, is citizens' activity. If citizens are not active, if they do not participate in the functioning of this society then simply democracy loses its meaning a little by little. Civil society organisations have great importance in this, and therefore civil society needs to be developed. Many civil society organizations do it very well. So when you have parents who have children with special needs and when the state helps them buy them, say, guide dogs or I don't know a new wheelchair, then that's what the state should do. Or when you have an association of defenders, an oliver, and you organize an education for them to grow those olives better. Unfortunately, however, in our civil society there are people who have simply entered this as a big business and are very good and professional. They're very good at writing projects, they're very good at reporting, they're very good at communicating with the media and they have very good relationships with the media, they have very good relationships abroad, they're very good at grouping, so in their business they're very good at it. But that's not what we should be supporting. Namely, we saw, we got the material on which we have the slogan "It's important to have support. Support is a keyword.". It means something in itself that should work and then the state in it supports them. I will also be specific, the GONG Association or citizens organised monitoring elections, voting. The association, a very noble idea and it would be great if the state supported it if indeed GONG performed citizens to oversee the vote as we say, as we had in the name of the family over 6,000 observers in the elections. We're talking about the year 2014. At the end of the year, the first round of presidential elections took place. You know how many GONGs have watchers in those elections? 15. Not 15 grand but 15. To put it in one context, the annual GONG budget is about 7 million 650 thousand kuna or 600, depending on year to year. Do you know how much their receipts are from membership fees? 1500 kuna, domestic donations of about 10,000 kuna. So total in their revenues, that revenue, given these 7.5 million kuna, is about 0.15%. And I dare say that GONG 0.15% is a civil society and 99.85% is something else. What? The Institute? I don't know. They have 16 employees, I repeat 15 have brought them into what their core business is, which is their basic mission, citizens are organised to oversee elections. 15 men brought in. That's what we finance, we have in this report for GONG, say, under point on page 119. EUR 58856, page 118. 519684 kuna, page 104. 234842 kuna. I know these GONG people were supposed to be in every TV show that day because they were invited to teach us all lessons about what these choices were like. We can no longer be on television or very rarely see someone from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts who we are, what we discussed last night but we have GONG. Perhaps we should abolish HAZU, simply establish GONG in those areas, to be the new conscience of Croatian society. It's not just about GONG. CESI, the Cesi Association three to four million kunas of the annual budget, 7 to 8 employees. What do they do? They are suing the Republic of Croatia for the Council of Europe's Social Rights Committee together with the London Interights, the New York Reproductive Rights Centro. You have their 20-page papers. Amir Hodzic, Sanja Cesar, Natasa Bijelic, threats, unconservative threats to Europe with a special reference to Croatia in which they will study everyone I am to all associations, organisations, what they are doing, etc. And I don't mind doing that. But when they take this kind of money for it, then I think you should still do it in your private time, not from that money they get. The Peace Studies Centre denies verbal violence, insults, labels, difaming. Platform 112, the Vigilara association has made efforts, has studied the financial reports that these associations have submitted in 10 years. In those 10 years, 112 - year - olds received exactly 112 million kunas. Maybe that's why they're called platform 112. That 112 platform is very skilled at flexibility. Ten years ago they were a civil coalition... sexual education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When they were to organize, they made one mistake. They said it was 140, and I don't know how many associations, but when they started signing, they only collected 241 people. At the same time, Grozd was supported by 20,000 people, but all the media were full of headlines the public rebelled against the Grosd Association. Now I think these 241 is public, these 20,000 is what? The underworld. That's how our civil society works today. I must say, our civil society to paraphrase fellow Maric since yesterday is deeply ill, deeply ill and I hope he's not here to say it. I hope we have the right to say that on the basis of these arguments that I present. And since I have three more minutes, I'm going to say where we really need to find solutions, which is what we do, how we develop it I repeat it very important civil society because it really is very important. One of the main problems is the Civil Society Development Council. I know that SDP and HNS are very happy with all these bodies and it's not my assessment issue. The associations just signed with President Josipovic before the president's election of umbrellas, a coalition contract. During the marriage referendum, these associations voted 2/3 for the definition of marriage as a community of men and women together with the government of the SDP and the HNS openly care against it together with the GONG association and all others. Council for Civil Society Development, I don't know if the distinguished fellow MPs know how to choose it. We have 13 sectors. These sectors, I'm not getting into having a special sector of human rights, a special sector... for human rights, and we don't have a family sector even though family is a constitutional category, so family associations simply don't have anywhere to report to the competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They can't run. So, associations that have listed one of these sectors in the Statute can report to their candidate for competition. For this candidate, associations can vote by system one association, one vote. And what's going on? We can hire associations we know, but these professionals who have lived on the state budget for years are very easy to monitor what we do and set up an association as many new ones as it takes because one association, one vote. We can't reach them to make it clear. Civil society is in the hands of those who support SDP and HNS ideology. We simply can't do it with a system like this where civil society is away from the citizens themselves, we can't do it. When I suggested that we could collect signatures for the candidates, then a very intelligent man from one of those associations said so wait, then you could collect signatures in parish assemblies. You could go to the one where there is a gathering of Christian youth, where 40,000 of you could collect signatures of support there. And then there was a problem, and then there was fear because I guess they were second-class citizens. Civil society is defined for someone else. It's not good. We have to change that. And finally, to come to this report alone. This report doesn't satisfy me for the simple reason why we don't make a distinction between the associations that deserve our support, and that's a lot. And it offends me very much when someone quotes me in the media that I said we would end civil society funding. No, I want to develop it. But I want here the data on how many volunteers are involved in any of these projects, how many users of the projects are which of this project. I'm looking at the phare program. So you get CESI, Babe, Istrak, Kontra, Women's Network and all these associations from 60 to 110 000 euros per year, the number of users of project 14. They have to write there, so you can see it there. We can't let that happen as a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1550	We have eight replicas at your hearing. The first came from Honorary Representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Ilčić said: "Some associations write projects very well, some associations communicate very well with the media, some associations communicate very well with other NGOs, some associations work very well, etc.", ending the quote. To say in the next sentence, "We shouldn't support that." Please take a look at the phonogram. Well, that's amazing. What should we support? The ones that don't write good projects? Who should we support? Those who do not purposely spend the funds they receive for their dwellings, those who have false dwellings? Are we gonna back you up? We have it on the table today, if that's what we should be supporting. So Mr. Ilcic please, given your professional life, be careful what you say. We need to support excellence, we need to support quality because only the same excellence can get us out. And I'm glad you originally mentioned NGOs helping children with special needs. You're right, it's an example of organizations that work very, very well and I'll remind you of your sentence, "Their children are equally valuable, but they're not the same." All children are the same with special needs, Mr. Ilcic. All children are the same and all children are equally valuable regardless of which continent, which colores the skin, the faiths of all children are the same. They may not be identical, they don't have the same genome, but they're the same and equally valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1552	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1553	First of all, about this same and not the same, my wife and I have five children, and neither of our children are the same. Let's just get this straight, but they're equally valuable. As for this beginning of your replica, you'd be right to quote me correctly, or I'll say if I wasn't clear, I'll explain. It is certainly commendable that people know how to write projects, that they can write reports, and that they are skilled at it. What I said we can't support is that kind of approach to civil society that becomes business, that's all. And if there were, let's say when we talk about a connection with international associations and here's another piece of information. The GONG Association receives about 320 thousand kuna pardon 3 million 200,000 kuna per year from the outside. So, mostly from Soroshe's foundation, whatever you think about it, but that's what it says. Or from the Balkan Trust Democracy Foundation. At the same time, they receive 11 thousand kunas from their members, or people in Croatia. And the question is, what Mr Djakic has opened is whether it makes sense for such associations to defend the very interests of Croatian citizens who donate 11,000 kuna to them and on the side receive over 3 million kuna from someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1554	Thank you. The next call came a distinguished representative, Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Ilcic two things I'd like you to explain to me. The first is your claim that civil society in Croatia represents the ideology of SDP and HNS. If civil society represents the ideology of SDP and HNS, then it can also represent the ideology of spreading the space of freedom or the value of freedom, the value of antifascism, the value of gender equality, the value of minority rights, gender, sexual and all others. Of course, the civil society organizations that you've come up against here and you've called people here by name, you're calling for persecution. You do not understand what it means to pronounce in this way the names of activists and activists of civil society in the Croatian Parliament, it is an open threat to me. Of course, the people you mentioned and many others do not represent the ideology that you represent because it is the ideology of exclusion and banning and narrowing down personal freedoms. Secondly, you told Mr. Ilcic that civil society in Croatia is sick. That's what you said. So, Mr. Ilcic, I hope you won't approach civil society treatment the way you would approach homosexual treatment because you claim homosexuality is a disease. Please don't treat civil society and don't treat homosexuality. Homosexuality is not a disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1556	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1557	So when you said that you were glad that civil society means it supports the values of SDP and HNS and then you listed which I do not at all dispute that civil society, or part of civil society, can, and should represent this worldview because there are many people in Croatia who represent this worldview. I don't have a problem with that. I only have problems when the entire structure of civil society is bred so if I can use that term that I just, I won't say, there's a lot of associations indeed, he mentioned Dr. let's say associations of children with special needs etc. But our dominant civil society is ideologically facing that side. And you can't deny that, if you want, I can bring you the excerpts that our organizations have been doing, studying how many minutes these associations have been in recent years on television that represented your worldview. And it's unquestionable that's most of it. So, in its annual report, CESI has mentioned 4 and a few million kunas of its revenues there are 16 million kunas for media space. That's what their report says. Unpaid space in the media 16 million kuna. That's what they say. So do you know any association that has so much space, not to mention "Storm" from Mr. Culey, etc. Persecution, I can't call someone who gets state money, and I don't think they use it in the sense that civil society should work? At the same time, Mr. Ostojic tells me I should be careful what I say, I'm sorry. And last treatment, I won't be able to introduce myself now into a debate about homosexuality because it's not a topic. But don't put words in my mouth I didn't say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1558	Thank you. The next one is Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1559	You said by quoting and calling on your colleague that he was a civilian, that society is sick, "Civil society is sick." Not a dear colleague and a respected colleague is not a civil society sick. And our society has never been sick, but that one part of politics is sick, I guess now it's obvious to everyone. They're sick, and they're sick minds that would make registers of traitors, who would lustrate others instead of lustrating themselves. It's a sick policy. You listed here a whole series of associations starting with CESI, the Centre for Women's Studies, GONG, the Women's Network. They were, these women's associations were the first drivers of civil life in modern Croatia and did much to develop women's rights and rights as a whole. Therefore, those politicians who are part of the government must not consider associations as an aid, as a prosthetic for the support of the government. In fact, each other has a special role to play. The state and the authorities who are sure of themselves are not afraid of their own citizens and their associations who are now serving to organise and affirm some of their special rights, their special interests. You say and resent associations that have support, so associations and civil society they're not just individuals, they're looking for support and they're getting it. And you've spent a good part of your debate on exactly how many minutes they have, how much money they get. And the truth is I also support the associations that represent, is one of yours, or which you were a member or are still, who advocate traditional values and I have nothing against those associations, but I do, you know what I have against these associations? Which represent traditional values and live for themselves very, very modern.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1560	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Vladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1561	First, I'm going to take the opportunity to break the concepts traditionally, conservatively, and their contradictions with modern life. If today in Croatia according to research 89Z% of people think that marriage is not an out-of-date institution, then I think that when we talk about marriage, we talk about a modern institution, regardless of what you always call conservativeism, which they call traditional, that is, modern and modern value. And I think I stand for modern and modern values. The second thing, when you're talking about how politicians should understand civil society, that concept of understanding, as we're talking about the concept of fluid today, is fluid. Because I can't get inside your head and see how you understand or vice versa. But I'm talking about facts. These associations, key associations, the most dominant civil society associations signed a pre-election contract with President Josipovic. So I'm not talking in my head, I'm not talking about someone's understanding, I'm talking about facts. The third thing, when we talk about treatment, is that I think that civil society is sick and needs to be treated. If you want other words, I think it needs to be fixed, that it needs to be improved. And that's what I think we're serving to fix those things in society that can be fixed for the benefit of society as a whole. And third, you were talking about support. The word support, as I have already explained, implies in its own sense that someone does something, and then we support him or her in doing so. However, I repeat if one association has 16 employees, an annual budget of 7.5 million kuna and cannot bring more than 15 people to do their core business, which is what it's called. Citizens watch the vote organised, then we don't support them, we treat them like one state institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1562	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1563	You tell a colleague at the beginning of his speech there are associations that are well organized, which write projects, which have good reports, which are well connected to other associations, are internationally well connected but we don't need them. If you were referring to your association that meets all these criteria, I could even agree with you. Speaking of associations, you haven't said a word, you don't mind an association that organises a march, a move of 5,000 followers to an institution of Croatian society at the Council for Electronic Media on the way to the "Home Ready". You don't mind, not that one such march leads the streets of Zagreb by the vice president of the Parliament who says here yesterday I was there as a private person, and today I'm vice president of the Parliament. He doesn't realize that he's been elected so long as he doesn't finish his term of office that he's vice president of the Parliament and sleeps, not when he's involved in this kind of militant and threatening march that causes anger, he causes fear among the citizens. That doesn't bother you. But who's bothering you? GONG who uncovered numerous electoral fraud in Bosnia and Herzegovina when they discovered how many deaths were cast there. You are disturbed by the Centre for Peace Studies, you are disturbed by platform 1-1-2, you are disturbed by B.A.B.E., you are disturbed by Contra. And what's most dangerous is that you represent power now so you tell me as a state we can't allow. The announcement of the suspension of the funding of these associations is a threat, without funding they cannot survive. I'm afraid you've said some very dangerous words, dangerous to this society that must be worrying us all, all of us who want a free and open society of equal citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1564	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Vladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1565	Dear Mr. Stazic, I've been in this House for a month, and I haven't heard one of your lines say you didn't mention Ustasha, and I'm really worried about it. ... You said the movement so that it increased the constitution or the home ready, etc. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At all, they got up well or about that story. No, I'm sorry if you didn't say the word Ustasha, but you talked about it. So I'm really not going to get involved in that debate. In this debate on the Civil Society Development Foundation, I didn't talk about Ustashas or Partisans. And I won't now. You can talk about it in every replica of yours. I won't. The other thing is, I wasn't talking about abolishing those associations. However, let these associations exist and be financed by those 11 thousand kunas they receive from Croatian citizens. But by the way, we give them another $4 million against it, and I think we have the right to be because we're responsible here for the taxpayers' money. The mass of people who have no business giving those 16 employees in GONG have an average salary of 7 thousand kuna, so some have a much higher salary. Do you know how much an ordinary worker does for one of these things and the GONG Association in its core business manages to bring 15 people to the election. And the last word, when you mentioned who's bothering you, that we were listening here yesterday, Look, just to find out, here's our document, here's document Vesna Terselić 372,000 450 kuna. I don't expect some associations to perform with science, perform scientificly, but when they go directly against the scientific institution, when they work in that one state institution that we founded, what the document does, and how it talks about the memorial documentation center, I have problems with that. And I think things should be revised, they should be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1566	Next replica, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1567	Comrade Ilcic, you said that many have turned civil society into business. So you listed GONG, the Peace Studies Centre, etc. Although the truth is that sometimes I too cannot agree with what individuals in GONG are doing, but to question the work of an institution that has really launched a whole series of initiatives to transform this society, political, social and whatever you want or the Peace Studies Centre that are really discussing a whole series of things and has relaxed different approaches to gender issues, gender ideology and I don't know peace issues, etc. It's kind of funny. You complain that your associations or what you represent don't have enough time on television or in the media in public. Well normally you should know with the media, that's one thing, they like a little provocative and what's sensational but still and above all in the media goes what's worth. So ask yourself, maybe that's not really worth it to go to the media. You're also talking about this society being sick, sorry that civil society is sick. I would say before that this society is kind of sick and civil society is part of that society, so if it's sick, it can't be anything different than society like that. But I'm even convinced that even this society isn't so sick and that civil society is actually the one to say the serum, the drug that makes it and can make it better. And in the end, you complain that your speech is being denied. I'd let you talk as much as you can because that's how you're gonna demonstrate yourself in the best way I can. Not what you're up against, but what you're up against.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1568	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1569	Let me do it again. I can agree with the Peace Studies Centro either partially agree with or with CESI etc.. I repeat, I am not advocating the termination of any association. We're just talking about funding state money. I think it should be in line with what these associations normally do. If they can raise $11,000, let's give them another 11 but not $3 million if you understand me. That's the first thing. It's another thing. About the media and the value in the media. Which is worth it in the media. I don't think so. We are witnessing media and various influences on the media, political influences on media, media, here's an example of everyday's show on HRT. I said what I did, the show starts, the journalist is, do you agree that it's a fascist, Nazi, racist statement. In the studio there is only one guest who repeats, of course, that it is both trees and stones all over me immediately. Contribution only to the woman from the Peace Studies Centre. That's what the media is like. If it's not a fundamental rule in the media to hear both sides, then I don't know what it is. So allow my suspicion of the bias of the media. And the third thing, sick, you say if it is, now I guess I should be guilty because I said that Croatian society is sick. Well, yes, there are sick things in our society when you mentioned bodies. I can't have a sick hand, doesn't mean my leg is sick, doesn't mean my whole body is sick. We have a problem, and we need to solve this problem to make it better. And one more thing, all this stuff when you don't get rid of accumulated dissatisfaction with the citizens. And then we have radicalism. We need to work things out in an argumentable, peaceful way and improve these things otherwise, they won't go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1570	Next replica. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1571	Comrade Ilčić, I actually support your debate from A-Z, or from A to that point at the end of the sentence. And you, in your debate, have actually advocated an equal position of civil society associations. So they are also funded and have equal funding opportunities based on the programme but also that other civil society associations have equal representation in the media. In these four years, let's think of our own concept, I think that as far as civil society associations are concerned, the fundamental goal is to take the left hand away, and that is their exclusive right to civil society associations today. Now, look as soon as you mentioned one of the civil society associations and just asked how and in what way and how they spend money, you immediately challenged a series of replicas and the replicas were forbidden to speak to you, to prohibit the activities of your association and that here only because you asked how many millions of kunas have spent some association, or what you immediately suggested in this House to say very dangerous words and sentences. I agree with you, here's the culture minister just announced that he's going to audit the spending of civil society associations' funds. Did you see what happened? It's not the same treatment in the media. Here is the Law on Medical Insemination you saw what civil society associations did, and other associations that supported the Law on Medical Insemination had no chance of getting into the media. Now, I wouldn't mention it if after the SDP came to power Rajko Ostojić had reduced the number of medical fertilization procedures the state paid from 7 to 3 then civil society associations that were fighting medical insemination procedures, or the law then didn't hear them. And I agree with you that it's actually a media picture that civil society associations support the ideology of SDP and HNS because it's an unfair treatment in the media. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1572	Replication response, Ladislav.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1573	As for what you said about the position in the media. Here I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues from SDP and HNS, it's for our common good to balance it out. I repeat, if this treatment continues, there will simply be a great anger of a certain number of people. Let's just say I specifically mentioned HRT, because right now I'm not in a working relationship there for four years, so I can speak openly. And then there goes the trees and stones on HRT as if the whole of HRT was wrong, and there are so many good things on HRT that I don't list them from cultural programs, art, music production, etc. And then the whole company, everything HRT should be worth. So is civil society. People, not me, I didn't say should end civil society or associations, but there are those who will say that, which, because of the anger and misunderstanding of all this data that I have stated today, will be simply angry. And then they will ask, then they will demand a reduction in the total amount of money and eventually they will suffer from those associations as Dr Ostojic said who really rightly helps children with special needs. You understand? We must connect our civil society with our citizens. In the very name of civil society, that means it. It needs to be raised from people, from citizens, and we can't have any civil society specialists who have nothing to do with civil society and turn up business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1574	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ilčić, I am pleased to spend some time here together in the Assembly and look forward to these joint replications and meetings of what our Ingrid says. Here you have well started in the first minute, minutes and a half by commending our citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are involved in the work of civil society and thus contribute to society as a whole. But then you had one "but" and everything went downhill in my court in your speech. You have attacked a whole series of renowned civil society associations that have truly one status respected in our public for many years. You're saying they're under SDP and HNS. I invite you to take Google a little bit and see how these associations could be critical of both the SDP and the HNS government in four, in the last four years, maybe more towards some, of some governments before this last government. But while you're talking about other associations, I'm going to ask you about your association. You've celebrated yourself a few years ago in public life as president of an association, correct me if I'm wrong about who used to commit violence against children by showing them footage and images of interrupted pregnancy. I think it was one of the most disgusting things I've ever seen in public Croatian life. So by this, you've been celebrated by your association if I'm not wrong about Grosd, I'm also interested in how much she's funded, how many employees she has, which is your budget, whether you're getting funding from a state register, from local administrations, counties, cities and possibly Catholic churches. Here's a little bit about your association.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1576	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1577	The first term "attack the association," so I've brought up some information that I find worrying. Secondly, I didn't say that these associations are under the hat of the SDP, I just said they're propagating the same, same worldview as the SDP is propagating, so I'm asking you to quote me because associations are civil associations. Third thing celebrated, like this one ignoring expression you'd like to leave out. Fourth, completely incorrect data. Our association has never shown any footage or films of interrupted pregnancy. You have associations that are close to you to find something else to attack us, that's what they'll find, believe me. Don't go out with the wrong data. And fifthly, as far as our Grozd association is concerned, in 2007, we won 150 000 kunas because we won the competition for the development of an experimental health education program and that's the only money we got from the state in the last 10 years of almost existence. We have donations, domestic donations, no donations from the church. So people who support our work have over 40,000 supporters. We had until recently one person on full-time, half-time. He currently has an unpaid leave because the person has decided to commit himself to providing refugees in Slavonski Brod, where he works through an Jesuit association if it is not a sin to say. So that's where he works now, so right now we don't have anyone employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1578	Thank you. The last replica, the esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am reporting for the replica because I was offered the debate of my colleagues and how he dedicated his entire debate to only a few associations that may be more famous media, have bigger media space, and we know that we have over 53,000 associations. I really can't believe that you think that 53,000 organizations are politically committed, either to the left, or to the right. I personally think that these associations, people who work in these organizations, are actually mostly volunteers, doing excellent work, doing work that the state can't do, doing this job with the heart, the soul and helping some sport, some culture, some kids, some associations help the socially endangered. So these are the people that you are now through your debate because you have determined that the whole debate is actually only dedicated to one segment of the association we have in general put all associations in the same basket. I can't agree with you on that. I think they're worthy people of this society. You mentioned marriage and you said the SDP was against marriage. No, we were against marriage entering the Constitution, and I'll tell you why. I'm married, but I don't want anyone to impose on my kids tomorrow whether they're gonna be married or not. I want them to have a choice, their choice to decide for themselves. I have two kids, I have a boy and a girl and they're the same colleague but they're different by other things. But they're the same, the kids are the same. That you can't understand, they're the same to me as the male, the female, they're exactly the same as my mother. And lastly, there's only one warning in this House, and that applies to everyone, so when we mention children with special needs, those children don't exist. These are children with developmental difficulties. I'm asking you to let me like this High House, so that's the rule that these are children with developmental difficulties. Let us not use the term of children with special needs. There's just no such thing as a term.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1580	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1581	So you said I put all the associations in the same basket. I, indeed, also in my opening statement and in the replicas later pointed out that many organizations work very well, that I am not in favour of abolishing any association but that I have objections to the work of certain associations. So it doesn't come from what you said I put all the associations in the same basket. And I don't know why because I think that's the basic logic that I've said. The other thing, I really can't get a sense of the sentence meaningfully when you say all the kids are the same, but they're different. Your children, any children. [[Invader Comparić Devčić: To me, my children.]] For anyone to say at the same time they're the same and different. Because I think in Croatian those two words are at odds. So, to make a short story short, I'm still standing in my view that all children are equally valuable and not the same. And I think that's exactly where there's wealth and we shouldn't be afraid of it. Anyway, here's what I'd like to finally do if this is the final replica that we all really all go into the development of civil society together. I hope, ma'am, that next year we'll have this report, it's really graphically nice so far, the most beautiful report I have to say. I don't know if it means that people have money and time so beautifully shaped as opposed to these state institutions, but it's really nice. And I really think that in each of these headings where there's an indication of how much resources can be made there's a section of the number of users. You have great projects with very many users. And there is no need behind this non-publishment of that information to hide those associations that have a small number of users and a large amount of resources. So the number of users and preferably the number of volunteers involved in the work of the association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1582	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1583	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, MPs and MPs. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would refer to a previous debate. I didn't report for the replica since I volunteered for the presentation, so an individual discussion, about children with special needs. They don't exist. So, children with disabilities or developmental difficulties. Because these children are here, and the esteemed representative Ostojić has denied himself because you said they have equal needs. Well, yes, they have the same needs they do not have special needs, they have the same needs as any healthy child and the tasks of society, communities in general, municipalities, cities and counties is exactly the same and the non-governmental sector and all of us who participate in the socio-political life of the Republic of Croatia to provide for the same development, right to childhood, to education, to attend pre-school institutions, to primary, secondary school, of course to the conclusion of universities and ultimately to employment. And there is responsibility on all of us and it is very important to use this term first because of children and their parents and because children with special needs are not in terms of the law or regulations of the Republic of Croatia or the EU. And I think we have to have a real and good start right towards a group of families that have a disabled child or a developmental problem with themselves in their environment. A lot has also been discussed often by NGOs both here and at local level, encouraging all participants, but also those who participate actively, some who are members of NGOs, members, members of NGOs and some who respond to their activities. Surely we as individuals can and should also be evaluated by the basis of the report but also by the activities in which someone works and works, but the arguments and facts are those that must be respected. In any case, I would like to point out that there is a need to support the promotion and development of civil society. We in Croatia have a large number of NGOs, but what is extremely important is that their action be transparent and clear. And no one can and must not be angry if. If they're financed from the state budget, but it's not just here now that we have this report, we've heard they're being funded from the government's Association Office, from various ministries. In the City of Zagreb, here we who come from the City of Zagreb who had the opportunity to participate and in the city policy know how many financial resources especially from the City of Zagreb's budget are just being given to the work of associations. And it certainly needs to set what are the objectives, what are the programmes and whether these programmes are implemented because it is public money, the budget money either the unit of local self-government or the state budget and it must be transparently allocated but also transparently spent. The values on which the National Foundation rests, but I also believe deeply, and I want to think that all of us who act in social political life are fundamental respect for human rights, public action, the responsibility of all participants in the development of the NGO sector, cooperation and dialogue. I'm appealing here for a dialogue. My colleagues and colleagues from the other side of the assembly, therefore from the opposition part of the MPs, have often been here since this fourth round, that the fourth working session of the Croatian Parliament, you are calling for the debate between MPs and MPs. Well, it's just about dialogue, tolerance, understanding and listening to someone else. So all of us sitting here have received support in the elections, in the elections for the Croatian Parliament held. We were all on the list. Some fellow MPs who applied for replicas, so you took the right to take away and speak, to document what they should and should not speak, received preferential votes and thus chose to get a mandate in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why I can't accept your division and the constant return to what we could see from the moment we discussed the vote of support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it became clear who has been constantly working on the divisions for four years. Well, that's you, primarily SDP, but also HNS. All four years serving Croatian citizens divisions to hide their incompetence. And we won't let that happen. I want to look ahead. I am interested in the future of my children, I am interested in the future of young people, young educated people leaving Croatia to find a job and a future throughout Europe and the world. For example. information that for the first time in the history of Dublin, a Croatian Catholic mission is based on how much this is the extent of the spill of Croatian youth. 5,000 people in the last two years have just gathered on that mission in Dublin because they came to work there because they couldn't find a job or their future in Croatia. These are the topics I want to discuss here, these are topics that will mark our four-year mandate, demographic renewal. Why Croatia is extinct, why it has been a year with the highest number of children born since the history of an independent and free Republic, with the lowest number and the highest number of deaths. These are topics we need to talk about and not go back in time. Let's let the historians have the past. And I as one person who thinks that and the Republic of Croatia, Zagreb is the most beautiful place where we can start our families, the right to diversity, the future is exactly what we need to build. The National Foundation, as can be read in the report, provides professional and financial support for the development of civil society, programmes promoting the sustainability of the non-profit, non-governmental sector, cross-sectoral cooperation and civil initiatives and volunteering. In any case, they are positive measures and should continue in that direction. The National Foundation also notes within its objectives that it will create conditions for employment in the non-profit sector as much as is necessary in Croatia in this difficult economic and economic situation in which we are located, promote social innovation, I appeal to be particularly involved in youth associations in as many numbers as possible. We have excellent young people who are and can be an example of how Europe and the world and we need to take advantage of them, this is our Croatian knowledge and Croatian youth for all social activities programmes both at local, regional and national level, of course to encourage social entrepreneurship, decentralisation of the provision of public services. And finally, since the time is slowly coming, it is safe to concentrate on taking funds from EU funds, in particular, I urge that special attention be given to women in this part of the lottery funds, associations that we especially have in Zagreb, an example of women shelters working with women victims of domestic violence, women, so children with disabilities and other groups that may not be in this direction, I do not know, as in 2015, get some funding in this budget. And someone said these were announcements that there would be suspensions of funding for the NGO sector, of course not. Surely we should appeal to rationalization, to the transparency of the implementation of the objectives, to the control of the projects, but if that means that it's an elimination of funding, then you can interpret it that way. I have a second opinion and a second opinion but I believe that the public money granted must be primarily transparently allocated but there must be transparent implementation of the objectives and control of the funds allocated.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1584	Thank you. Now we're going to go to the vote and supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1585	That concludes the vote, and now we will return to our debate on the point we are discussing. We have three lines left unfinished. In any case, the first replica is that distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1586	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to... [[The noise in the hall, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1587	Please, please! We keep working, let your colleague tell you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1588	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I have to replicate my colleagues, Mađerić, and it seems to me that in your presentation there has been a little bit of a chasing of a term related to children with special needs and children with disabilities. Therefore, within the legislative framework and in life, Croatian society knows the term of children with special needs, which on the one hand includes children with developmental difficulties, and on the other hand, in the category of children with special needs, there are also gifted children. So these are both categories of children who simply have specific needs in socialization and in certain assurances of key living conditions, regardless of whether they are a system of health care, a system of education, education, or simply their inclusion in the living daily life. And another thing I would like to say is that I fully agree with you that the Republic of Croatia must and should turn to the future. What is a key goal is to invest in young people. I would therefore like to point out that the youth unemployment rate has been the lowest since 2008. Over the past two years, we have seen a 26.8% decline in unemployment compared to 2014. In 2015, 109 606 young people were employed, which is an increase of 2% compared to the year before, so 2014. I sincerely hope that your government will continue to implement the measures successfully, above all I think of the Youth Guarantee as one of the key instruments for the rapid integration of young people into the labour market, that you will not stop positive trends. I wish you a lot of success in that and don't bring us back to the old one before 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1589	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Mađeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1590	Thank you to your esteemed colleague, thank you, Mr. President. So children with disabilities or children with developmental difficulties are not children with special needs. They have the same needs as healthy children do. And the task of society, as I said, of cities, municipalities, county and Croatian state, is to provide them with the same childhood as healthy children. As for the employment of young people and the number of unemployed in Croatia, the fact that Croatia has left more than 100,000 people in the last 4 years, with the wave of young and young families, that you lost 10,000 jobs in 4 years and that every third unemployed person under 30 is talking about the success of the SDP government. What I'm sure this government will not follow your success because that would indeed be the end of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1591	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1592	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague listening to you, especially the first part of your debate, I thought here comes a new time for HDZ, a young woman who spoke about the rights of the child, about their same rights, who spoke about the need for dialogue. But then there's some kind of return to the old one again. Or the misunderstanding of democracy and pluralism at all. So that's how you object that we didn't, there's been a division, and it's been especially seen in the government's vote of confidence. First of all, we were right, and second of all, it's our job. These were our arguments, and this is the task of opposition and pluralist society and politics. Your colleague Ilcic does not distinguish the role of church and state at all and believes that the state must simply be equal to having the same task as the church. Everything that is sin must be a crime and must be forbidden. Well, then someone's unnecessary, then we're unnecessary here. You here now, as you have concluded, you believe that the dialogue implies that we agree on everything and then we return to the one-party system. So what you're criticizing would practically come to that. Also, you say we're going back in time. Not colleagues, but also what we see, we simply see the renaissance of profasism on our streets of the Croatian capital and we have to talk about it. I wish there was no need to talk about it. However, as the government announces belt tightening, such anti-democratic aspirations are clear. However, power can be happy when there are only associations dealing with individual or individual interests of a particular group, but what will happen if it continues this way when large groups of people come looking for their own bar acquired and defend their acquired social rights? So understanding dialogue, tolerance, civil society and politics is to hear and respect each other and when we disagree with someone. It is easy to listen to each other and to lead the dialogue with those we agree with.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1593	Thank you very much. We have one, before I give the honourable counsel a word, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was raised by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1594	Mr. President of the Parliament, off topic under Article 232. "The speaker can only talk about the subject under the order of the agenda." In her replica, a colleague spoke outside the agenda and off the subject. So I'd ask you to keep an eye on it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1595	Thank you very much. I agree with you. Unfortunately, it keeps repeating that we don't stick to what the topic of the agenda is, the subject of the point, and I once again don't know which times in these three days I'm appealing to everyone to stick to the subject. Within the theme there is always enough space to express our political, world-wide and in-depth views, we do not have to go to various other topics. So please let us all stick to that. And now, the distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1596	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what I wanted to say and Mr. Bully, so the injury is definitely the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry that the esteemed representative didn't report on the line then to my colleague Ilcic. It was also space and time, and I don't think it's acceptable to throw a fellow representative out of the bench like this. I believe and stand in the fact that tolerance and dialogue are very important. And obviously for you, tolerance and dialogue is only when you speak and you nod your party president's head. When he sows hate and now one or two days ago, but all the time on all those who different and different think it's democracy and we're a democratic state. I am asking you to allow me, in accordance with my time, to say what I think is tolerance. I think you finally have to learn it, it's come at that time. As for the esteemed representative, she told me as a young woman I wouldn't want us to be separated here for years, we should respect each other here. And that is the only and most important objective of democratic action and respect for one another. And what she said after that, I'm sorry she's not here and she won't listen to me, that with my presentation at first she thought I didn't know about some parliamentary debate and discussion, and I, with Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic's statements from the beginning, but also some fellow MPs, I see there's no hope for the SDP. That you're always going back to the way you were. That's what I said. During the debate on the government rather than having discussed constructively and reasonedly, you brought us back not a year ago, two but twenty-fifty years ago, and I find that unacceptable. I want to look ahead, I want a better future for our Croatia and I have a right to that. Please respect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1597	Thank you very much. I have two remarks, principled again. The work of the Parliament is beginning, so it is obvious that people and sometimes inexperienced, etc. We had a debate yesterday just about who and whom he referred to as a young woman, or a young lady or something like that, and then it was reacted to as a misbehavior, as an inequality, etc. Therefore, I ask that we all stay away from it. And secondly, I'm asking to be polite, and it's polite to ask someone a question, to at least hear the answer and not leave the hall, because then obviously it wasn't an interest to ask a question or a replica, obviously it wasn't a subject of interest, but it didn't know what the reason was at all. So let's stick to some basic matters of decency. Now we'd move on. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1598	Comrade Mađerić, I agree with you when you said you should stop going back in time and share on topics that are almost daily sticking under our noses. So we also saw when the prime minister was now presenting his programme that 90% of these were economic topics and then you saw through Minister Hasanbegovic that we were re-imposed with the subject of Ustasha, Partizana and we were actually dealing with it all day. It is not good for Croatia, it is a persistent left-wing view of some fascism of Croatia, of some neo-Nazi attitudes, and it is best for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia either in local or in parliamentary elections. In the parliamentary elections of those parties representing me, I will not say any fascist views, but some ultra-right ultra-radical attitudes, but some ultra-right, ultra-radical attitudes are won in the parliamentary elections by 0.01%. But I think the persistent insistence of the SDP and the HNS is that there is some danger in Croatia from the Ustasha serpent that this harms the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Why is that? So that is exactly what insistence on ideological divisions in this way wants to avoid those topics that are important for Croatia today, which are economic topics, want to avoid conversation or debate why Croatia is today in economic terms at that level, why 80,000 jobs are lost, why 300,000 are unemployed, why 300,000 are blocked. And just to remove the accent conversation from the topic then they want to share Croatia as they have shared over the past four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1599	Thank you very much. Prior to the response, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac believes the injured Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1600	Thank you, Mr. President. I think he's a injured Rules of Procedure. Col. Milinovic injured the Rules of Procedure in Articles 235 and 232. by misusing the instrument, i.e. the Institute of Replica, to discuss the subject of the Institute for Civil Society Development and to discuss the Ustashas, Partisans and to simply deal with election results. So please again today, this is the second time I've reacted to try to somehow hold the reins of this debate and actually bring back the topic where it should be because we're already pretty far away from what's on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1601	Thank you very much. As you've seen, I've already tried on several occasions as you said back on the subject but unfortunately neither side has been very much heard. I hope, therefore, that by repeating more often and reminding ourselves that the topic is the National Foundation for Civil Society Development and its report, we will all be reminded to discuss this. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1602	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad that the esteemed representative Milanovic reported on the replica and really replicated and specifically pointed out what I wanted to remain after my debate, which is that instead of economic growth, development, employment and prosperity of our SDP country, the government had just pushed ideology for 4 years to conceal and hide its incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1603	Thank you very much. The next one came in for a replica by distinguished representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1604	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I will be in the topic, colleague Mađeric, you said and I welcome that you welcome employment in the non-profit sector and that is very important. I agree with you. However, unfortunately, employment as things stand now will not be possible in the non-profit media, which has been chosen by the Croatian Government's decision somewhere since 2013 through the public tender and the decision of the independent commission for non-profit media, which has also been chosen through a public tender, i.e. a public invitation financed by the Ministry of Culture because our Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegović this morning, without any reason and without any explanation, has disbanded the independent commission for non-profit media, to which the mandate stands out or expires only in October 2016. This morning you also had a press conference about the attack on freedom of speech, the address of the Croatian Journalist Society among others. I therefore agree that it is necessary to invest in new jobs and in the employment of colleagues and colleagues in the non-profit sector, or civil society organisations, but I am sorry that one of the first decisions of the new Croatian government is not to finance non-profit media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1605	Thank you, I still don't see any connection with the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, but it will be answered by the distinguished representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1606	Oh, thank you very much. Here I expect the violation of the Rules of Procedure from my colleague, Glasovac, based on the replica of my colleague Leaković. So 80,000 lost jobs in the last 4 years of the SDP government and you haven't hired your party counterparts in companies and ministries of APIS, for example. We'd be up to 100,000. I think you should see how and how it was employed and I don't see anything controversial about it. We should insist on the truth and on transparency. Don't go against it when it comes to you. We have to have the same criteria for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1607	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1608	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you're constantly replicating that it's not a subject of what they're replicating to you. I think that you are overly increasing the role of civil society as a key factor in solving the current social problems. In doing so, you said that unemployment... thousands to seek out jobs abroad and to have Dublin founded a church community, a Catholic mission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You state irregularities and non-transparentity in the criteria of allocation of funds from the budget, although you know that the Croatian Parliament has passed clear laws in the control of the financing of civil society associations. Civil virtues are active and responsible to the public. The government, when investing in the work of these non-profit organisations, that is, the non-profit sector, does not influence the programme and work of these civil society associations. I think political ideas in today's world are losing power and inspiration in the social state, and that these associations are actually one new wing, and they're hiding the civil sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1609	The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1610	In fact, very short. You and your party have just insisted on the violations of the Rules of Procedure that it is not in line with the subject we are discussing. I agree with you, neither you are now replicating either the basis of my debate or the subject of the foundation's report, and I definitely believe that we should remain on the subject we are discussing. Only then must I correct you Croatian Catholic missions. So these are missions that gather our Croats across Europe and the world who, especially during the communist regime, went primarily because of political persecution outside to seek their future. And in Dublin two years ago, such a mission was re-established, about 5,000 Croats gathering here for your information. I think we need to know that. It's our reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1611	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1612	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mrs. Plavša Matic, colleagues and colleagues. Here I must at first express my satisfaction with the report submitted by the Foundation for Development, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, and to conclude that not only this report, but those who are a little more closely following the work of the Foundation can see that in one very transparent and effective way you meet all of those five strategic objectives set in the Action Strategy from 2012 to 2016. I'll just list them for a little while. These are, therefore, encouraging citizens to activate, to include and participate in the development of the local community, to build the capacity of civil society to participate in social development, to develop cross-sectoral cooperation and cooperation between civil society organisations, to increase public influence and visibility of civil society organisations' activities and to support social innovation and employment in the non-profit sector. The following facts apply, so I must say that you are not only carrying the right but you are also justifying the name of the institution National Foundation for Civil Society Development, because you are developing and developing, you are succeeding in achieving the development of the crisis and recession despite the fact that you are. Not only do you succeed, so to develop civil society, but also the local community and all individuals who want to make their active social contribution to community development, you manage to ensure a certain continuity. And in fact, this report shows not only transparency in the management of public funds, but also the content of your work, that is, this report. So it's actually a positive example that out of 43 out of 43, roughly 43 million revenues, in fact 90% of the revenue is aimed at empowering the civil sector in local communities regardless of the emphasis on reducing the difference between individual social groups or in empowering particularly vulnerable social groups. Whether it is an emphasis on encouraging volunteering, on protecting the environment or on democratisation of society itself. So, all these assets actually pass through you as a roof institution, whether or not they are, and in most cases they are transferred to local communities, according to your partners, but also to all stakeholders, or social factors. And you're actually very successful and you're doing what we had a chance to hear a lot of lamentation about today, which is employment. When we talk about employment, I think through 486 support given in 2014 it is simply necessary to mention the praises of 829 people who are employed and to feel there when they are employed and this gender balance. So it's 471 women and 358 men. In addition to these 829 persons, 7637 volunteers and volunteers who have actually given yet another additional, additional power in this segment have been added. What is particularly important is that you also take care of the employment of young people, so the joy of the fact that 37% of people under 30 are on your expert team. And it's actually the right way, that what you're saying, that what's founded and adopted as a strategy isn't actually a dead letter on paper, but it's actually something that's tangible, and that's what the facts that can be seen in this report are doing. What I consider to be a particularly important moment for the National Foundation, but of course for all those users of these measures, is, in fact, the society that benefits the most from your activities is the moment when you have been accredited by the European Economic Area and by the Kingdom of Norway to be a de facto representative or implementer of the civil society programme in the Republic of Croatia, because in this way the Republic of Croatia will actually make it available an additional 1.3 million kuna for various programmes. I think it is particularly important in addition to this, that everything that I have stated is in fact what I think is particularly important in society should be given special support not only by the state but also by the National Foundation and by the national sector. This is the establishment of a very successful operation of a knowledge centre for social development, a strong contribution means a policy that is actually a top policy in Europe, etc. The concept of LLL or life long learning – a lifelong learning which you also contribute through the catalogue of informal education and through learning at a distance by showing this example that in this segment along with many others in front of some public institutions in the Republic of Croatia and that long before your activities, you entered the EU through thinking rather than formally doing so by the Republic of Croatia. Also especially valuable, with all due respect to all programmes, I hold programs or the establishment of awards for primary and secondary school students where the best volunteers are rewarded. I believe that this is the right way for Croatian elementary schools to cultivate a culture of volunteering and thus, along with some formal forms of education and some content in schools that actually strengthen schools to give strong support to those children to understand how important it is to build within themselves this sense of justice, sense of help and feel what it means to be a responsible citizen of the Republic of Croatia, to be sensitive to problems and situations around them. Today in your class, tomorrow in your street where you live, in your city, in the Republic of Croatia, and when they are adults in Croatia and in the EU. This is what I'd end up with. So I am giving full support not only to this 2014 report but also to your further work. Continue, do not be discouraged by perhaps some debates in this Croatian Assembly. It is simply the Republic of Croatia that must be aware that civil society is, in fact, the only real guarantee, one of the key true guarantees of democracy and modern social order. And the stronger our civil society, the more orderly we will be, the more democratic a country in which citizens feel that they participate, that is, to participate in the management of society, are so much more grateful and feel that their existence as a social and political being makes sense. Here, thank you very much, and I wish you a lot of success in your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1613	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1614	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am speaking in the Parliament for the first time, so here I pray for a little understanding. I'd like to return the debate to the scale of the matter, and I think it's the task of the representative of the Most, so I believe that the President of the Assembly in the MPs of the Most will have that ally to return to the essence of the debate. I would commend this report as truly transparent but it reveals one truth, which is that rationalization must exist. This report refers to 2014 and I would say one example where rationalising savings is possible for civil society associations. I was still working at school a week ago and former Ministry. The family ministry, a young former minister, Opacic, conducted one project last year, and this is the diet of hungry children at school. This money has been allocated from Croatian lottery funds and it is a truly commendable project. We got a list of kids at school, we had to make a list of kids who were hungry at school, cooks were cooking those lunches, but the money project got associations and the school did the whole part of the job. So, what I'm saying is that there is a space for savings, that the ultimate objectives or users of civil society associations should not be abolished but that some things can be saved. And I wouldn't want civil society associations to be considered in our society as sacred cows. All the institutions of this country are subject to criticism, the church, this Parliament, the president of the Parliament, the president of the state, and so I think civil society associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1615	Thank you. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1616	My dear colleague, I think that at the very beginning of your presentation, you were quite contradictory, expressing the intensity that we were sticking to the topic of debate, and even if I realized that you were returning the topic to the right path. And on the other hand, through the entire content, or the rest of your replica, you simply did not stick to the subject either in particular or in any part of my presentation. However, when you mentioned this commendable project of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth because the Ministry of the Family and Youth does not exist, so it is the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth through which all children who do not have the means to co-finance their parents' diet in schools that are actually hungry, do not have the means for meals to provide them with this free meal. I see nothing in this project as controversial as in the school fruit scheme project where, in fact, by using EU funds or funds, every child in the Republic provides a healthy meal, so that they get free fruit. Since this school year milk is also introduced. I really didn't get the point of your replica. I think it is a good example of the cooperation of the institutional and non-institutional part of Croatian society, so on the one hand, the ministry on the other. In this I see really nothing controversial, on the contrary I think it should have the support of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1617	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Mara Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1618	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I personally support the manner in which my colleague Sabina led the debate, and I don't think my colleague, Agent Marco, was willing to criticise your debate. Personally, I think it is the right way to argue in this distinguished home of the Croatian Parliament. Unlike most of the debates that have been conducted on all topics of the agenda, which mainly consisted of ideological procedures, I think it's the last thing that civilian associations need. They need constructive proposals and constructive discussion. What I think and what I have been dealing with in my work with civil society associations is that all committees and all bodies that decide at the levels of local, regional self-government and state level on programmes that associations apply to different competitions must be absolutely depolitised. I think it's the only right way that we're going to have a fair and transparent distribution system and it's going to be an incentive to all those who work well to do better, and to those who do bad work and get resources that may even be bigger than they need for their regular work to activate and invest in their human potentials. I particularly think that we should invest in youth education, education on how to use funds from European funds, especially our regional development agencies that exist, but surely they can do much better and much more because we have problems with staffing. I think that those specific places that require specific knowledge should be employed by people who already have certain educations and who can contribute. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1619	Thank you. They will respond to the replica of the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1620	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I fully agree with you. So when we talk about the transfer of funds or the withdrawal of funds by civil society associations and the execution of tenders, regardless of which institution it is concerned that there is absolutely any competition, or decision on the allocation of funds, a political influence should be avoided. This is why I believe that this time the National Foundation for Civil Society Development is going is the right way, so it is based on quality, on strategic objectives that should be the main postulate when we are discussing where these funds will be directed to regain such content, i.e. such results, which will contribute to the objectives, i.e. missions of the national foundations themselves and then to the strategic objectives set from 2012 to 2016. I wish we had more institutions like this. I don't think there were any disputed allocations in this government's mandate either. I hope it will be so in the future, that this government too will be guided by this example, though unfortunately I must admit that some of the debates I have had in recent days do not give me confidence. I sincerely hope it's just a show for the public, that no retaliatory action will be made, announcements but the living have seen the time will show what will be true. If this occurs, of course, we will be there to respond to any attempt to politicize the concept of associations that are similar or unsuitable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1621	Thank you. And the last replica is that distinguished representative of Sanja Putice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1622	The esteemed MPs, as I said in my opening debate, of course, that we all imitate those programs of this foundation that encourages volunteering, especially among young people, and so in my executive term, I encouraged my students to volunteer and we are also winners of the Heartprint Award for volunteering in a home for children without parental care. However, this network of volunteering and volunteers among young people would in any case be even more developed today if at the moment of making a decision on the conduct of civic education in our schools, this curricula was somewhat clearer, with more transparent goals than being left at the level and at the will of schools. I think that at the time of the introduction of civic education in school, a clear plan and programme and people who were able to implement such a program in our schools, which I consider to have improved the repeat network of volunteers among young people and encouraged them to do so more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1623	Thank you. ... Let your colleague just answer, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1624	Thank you very much. Comrade Putica, here I am taking the opportunity, congratulating you as director for getting this commendable confession. As for the introduction of civic education and your suggestion that it may have been re-opened in some way, left to schools in terms of implementation and that it might be wise and well that we have brought some concrete or more rigorously established plan and programme. I must tell you that the Republic of Croatia is simply leaving plans and programmes, i.e. the concept of curricula and programmes, and is turning to a more modern approach, which is a curriculative approach that clearly underlines and sets out the outcomes that need to be achieved but gives this particular freedom to teachers of the teaching process to come to the best possible outcome. But here I am glad to hear from your debate, I hope I did not misread that you support the introduction of civil education and education in Croatian schools and that we share the same point of view that it is necessary in Croatian schools. He's another one, I'll say it like that young project. I believe that it will get a significant role, obviously not as a special teaching subject in new curricula documents but that it will be, to experience certain and improvements which will then contribute to the network of these not only volunteer activities of children but also other competences that will help children to be responsible citizens and to understand what it is really education for the public, to be a citizen in its full sense. Thank you very much for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1625	Thank you very much. Now we will move on to the next individual debate, which will be that respected representative of Joseph Bilaver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1626	Thank you, Honorable President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Again today, we have had a debate on topics that are actually secondary and individual MPs are taking advantage of today's debate on the foundation to re-attack the unsuspecting and bring us back to the past. And yesterday I talked about it, and I hope it doesn't happen again in the future. As far as the foundation itself is concerned, we've said a lot too, a lot of things have been constructive and well, so I won't repeat myself, I won't be long today. I would like to commend the foundation for working with the institutions of the European Union and for working on withdrawing funds from the European Union. The report shows that much has been done on programmes such as Europe plus, and the foundation has been accredited by donors of the European Economic Area and the Kingdom of Norway funds for the implementation of the Civil Society Programme. Also commendation for working with new associations because many of them wouldn't have survived if they didn't have your help. However, I must also mention what is not good and what can be heard, which is unfortunately a fact which is that there is not enough transparency and clear evaluation criteria for decision-making for the allocation of funds to associations and further work should be done on this. When we talk about non-transparentity, it's actually confusing that on the website the foundation results of the competitions. For young people for democratisation, volunteers are separated and misrepresented. Citizens are interested in transparency and auditors' sources of funding. When we talk about the award criteria, for example from a fund that had over 5 million kuna budgets to which entrepreneurship, human rights organisations could apply, for young people and the rest of them as many as 4.4 million kunas went to democratisation and only 700 thousand kuna went to projects for young people. And out of those 700 thousand kunas, half went to human rights. My conclusion is that the foundation does not follow market trends, the needs of society development, the preservation of human rights should be supported and supported further, and this is also the legal gain of the European Union, whose member we are. But the foundation has to finance youth projects more, projects that will promote further education, socialization of young people because it is an investment in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1627	Thank you. The next individual debate will be those respected representatives of Biljana Gaća.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1628	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Foundation's report is the best indicator of actual labour activities and the impact of civil society because, as we could read from this report on so many activities and educations, seminars, volunteer actions and coordination, we can be more than proud. It's amazing to me that someone in this House can, in a way that we've heard so far, belittle values like voluntary social engagement and work for the greater good. The civil sector is not only the wealth of democracy of pluralism and Croatian society, but it is also a certain correction of government, i.e. a link between citizens and citizens and authorities. And to say that civil society is sick is deeply worrying. The investment of the national foundation in 2014 alone allowed employment, i.e. working relationship for a total of 822 persons and the inclusion of a total of 7637 volunteers and volunteers. I think it's not sick at all, but it's very commendable. The report shows that the National Foundation is working with the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Defence, and I hope that in the future, the National Foundation will find room for cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. A team more because the current Culture Minister Hasanbegovic is for a magazine when listing a journalist who receives funds from the media, I quote: "That money will no longer be seen.". And as early as January 27th of this year, he disbanded the expert commission on non-profit media. That is why I hope that the National Foundation will find some way or model of cooperation with these media through projects that greatly promote the value promoted by the foundation itself. It's the media that won't let them get to the censorship we witnessed in the first days of this government. It is important to note that the foundation and the civil sector are not only using money from the state budget. In fact, they write projects, apply to EU funds and largely receive funds from the European Union, which means you would not believe that the civil sector is also bringing money through projects in the Republic of Croatia, spending them in the Republic of Croatia on various educations, workshops and activities and all for the benefit of certain vulnerable groups or for the general benefit. Another outstanding example of the work of the foundation that we could hear today is the fact that the foundation has been accredited for the executive body of the European Economic Area and the Kingdom of Norway in the field of civil society, which has been provided with an amount of 1.3 million euros for the financing of projects of civil society organisations. I would like to point out that from these funds, one association received funds for the construction of the already mentioned Danube Intercultural School in Vukovar, a project which was later recognised by the competent ministry and took over because it recognized the importance and size of the project. Many such projects have just been launched by the civil sector. Associations have the capacity and skills to write projects, to get funds based on them and through these means to improve democracy, to work on protecting human rights and freedoms, to cultivate cultural diversity, to work with children with developmental difficulties, with persons with disabilities, with third-age persons and many other groups. All of this would be very difficult or almost impossible to implement without the role of civil society, and many of our citizens and citizens would be deprived of these services and assistance that they provide. Today in the Croatian Parliament I must say that I am concerned about the future of the civil sector, pluralism and diversity. I am concerned about the valorisation of volunteering and social engagement that is not in line with the ideological world of the parliamentary majority. I am concerned about the activities of associations which have a legitimate right to be left-wing, because these associations are critical of both SDP and HDZ and other political parties if they think something is wrong. They have the right to do so, and ideology and values do not belong only to political parties. Associations have the right to both social and political action, and I am concerned about those associations that will act against the socio-political action of the parliamentary majority. I wish the National Foundation for Civil Society Development from the heart much happiness in further work and as much resources and projects as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1629	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Blazenko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1630	Thank you, Mr. President. Just when we thought that the debate at the very end was moving right into the thematic debate about the foundation itself thanks to Mrs Sabina above all Mr. Joseph Bilaver. Here comes the MP who puts it all together on another political topic, and especially when he calls it inappropriate that something is sick. Well, you know, when something's sick, then it needs to be treated, but it doesn't have to mean that it has to be amputated or removed. I realized throughout the debate that there would be no elimination or amputation, but for some diseases should be given some idols, it really should be given, and I'm glad that my colleague here said that we were concerned that the civil society was really left-oriented. But that is why one recommendation, it is recommended that according to volunteers, according to people as much as one association brings them together, that as much as budget funding will be commensurate with the number of participants within certain associations, which I think is very good and useful, and no one will at that time be able to plead that the associations are left or right, will be given according to how many of them work for the interest of the interested groups and such interested associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1631	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Biljana Pansy will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1632	Well, first of all, thank you for your replica. In most of my presentations, I was just talking about the National Foundation, but I couldn’t help but touch the alarming statements of certain parliamentary deputies. And to you as an answer, well the associations I said I could if they wanted to be left-oriented. This cannot be forbidden by anyone as we have associations that are publicly-oriented does not mean that they absolutely accept everything represented by HDZ and right-wing parties. Thus, associations can be left-wing, and does not mean that they will support anything represented by the SDP or the left-wing political party. It's their right. They are, associations make up citizens who have the right to be ideologically represented either through associations or through political parties. But what worries me again is your replica, which is that if someone is sick, you should treat them. So if someone is sick first needs to be diagnosed with this disease, and I'm interested in what criteria you'll be able to diagnose whether someone is sick or not, whether there's an association that doesn't match your values and your ideology or is. So, what will be the criterion, who will establish that diagnosis, what and how to treat it. I am very afraid and agree with my predecessor Caroline if you will treat associations and the civil sector as you believe homosexuality should be treated then I am only afraid for the future of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1633	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on. The individual debate will be held by the distinguished representative Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1634	I sincerely wish to congratulate the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The annual report is very impressive and figures speak of 300 million kunas all these years invested in over 4,000 different projects. In the last few days, the situation has been very heated, the scream and rage and march on the streets on behalf of the right truth not only marched and protested, but entered state institutions, the ministry building, the Council for Electronic Media. More than ever, we could feel the importance of the activities of civil society associations because their work makes us a tolerance, a dialogue so necessary for Croatian society. The Trust includes disfellowshipped groups. As a people, we still have a lot to work on raising awareness and supporting people with certain difficulties. Sometimes it seems to me that we can only remember conveniently when the days dedicated to them are marked, and we need each day. The financial report is very transparent and you will agree that we can be satisfied with it. What I would personally like and what I think is important and that is to encourage the development of volunteering, civic activists and philanthropy. And finally, allow me, Mr. Ilcic, these honest-working people certainly don't make a profit, but to express themselves with a football syntagm "the heart fires". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1635	Thank you. It is not good to conduct polemics outside the framework of the Rules of Procedure, so please do not do so, and I would now give my word to the honourable representative Ivan Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1636	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I would like to look back on this topic today because I have participated in the work of an association for many years, even though we started as a party. This is what is often replaced in public. So, first it was a party then only an association, i.e. A few associations. But the real perception is different, and because of this today, I'm glad it is. I'll bring up two of these first. One thesis is that activism, meaning the height of civil courage, is that in the people people organize themselves around certain ideas to protect certain rights or to gain some other rights, is a true indicator of democratic society, and that is something we should certainly encourage. I'm also glad to say that in recent years, I would say that we've had a dead body of activists in Croatia, rebellion, protests and everything else that I've had to experience if we had experienced one renaissance of activity, one renaissance of ideas, and that in this sense we're developing for the better. First of all, it is the consequence of your actions, but also of the replacement of generations, meaning those older generations that have learned to live in the totalitarian regime are slowly leaving, new people are coming, a young generation that is taught to communicate in a modern way. It's not that totalitarian way from one source to a crowd but it's a way to communicate with everyone and it's almost instantaneous. This is what will make the most of the development and associations of citizens and the entire civilization in the near future. I would also like to say that I call on all associations that think it is for them to connect with political parties or to start their own political parties. It's very important because it's not enough on the street to scream out some parole or act in the community, but it takes that kind of thing to get into politics to get these things into the laws. Here I can list our association and party as a successful example of something like that. First of all, the struggle for the right to a home as something which is also written in the Croatian Constitution as a human right that may not be properly articulated or formally written but is certainly an increasingly growing problem and something that we will devote ourselves to in our work and that various other organizations around the world are increasingly committed to. So I'd like to call everyone into politics. We've often had thesis, especially in the old generation, that politics is dirty, that the worst people come here, that there's corruption. Yes, but how best to reduce this corruption? Let's all go or as many of us into politics as possible, and then we'll crystallize the best, the most honest, the most moral. There, I'd end up with that call. And of course, as far as spending money is concerned, my vision is something different, but I'll leave the debate on the subject when it comes to a similar subject in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1637	Thank you very much. And now he will answer here in short final on behalf of the applicant the Honorable Director of the National Foundation of Ms. Cvetana Plavša-Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1638	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. So here's listening to you for so long it seems to me that the importance you've given to civil society has somehow come into place. Of course, they're conflicting opinions, but I don't think any society in this world can be declared a democratic society without civil society. So organised civil society, citizens who have recognised through activists and advocated certain problems the need for integration and action I think is the key to democracy and inclusive society. So I believe that everything we've managed to do in these last 15 years, it means '98. the year when the Office for Associations was established and the model was created with an institutional framework covering these three institutions – Office, Council and National Foundation with different, completely different but complementary roles, that we will improve this model. Because here you can ask any official or official in Brussels, they recommend this model which we have to support the development of civil society to all Member States or to excuse all EU candidates. So, we've made one step at that. I'm not saying of course he's the best, he can certainly always be better but we've done a lot. We have done a lot in understanding civil society and public institutions and policies, I hope, because I think that is the most important thing. The criteria we have for the allocation of funds to civil society organisations are based on the general good and are based on the fact that we want to see outcomes that will affect social development. That's the basic criterion, so there are no other criteria besides that. And all the criteria are also made public. Everything that we have in these last 12, 13 years supported civil society organisations that have gone through here to say the support we have provided, and those others, they are now actually withdrawing more than 10 times as much as we give on an annual basis through EU funds. They are the best actually at withdrawing funds from EU funds and we need to take care of it because I think it is a guarantee to improve the living conditions of many citizens in the Republic of Croatia through various projects carried out by civil society organisations. Thank you for the promotional suggestions. I think they're worth it. We always listen very closely to all proposals because I think that the proposals that come from people who are directly or less directly interested and involved in supporting the development of civil society are precious to us because we are seriously and responsibly doing this job and we are actually trying to be transparent and that everything we do is visible to the public and that everyone who is interested can actually know how the funds are spent. More than this year, we will complete this project, i.e. launched, related to the portal, that is, a computer program called financial support.hr where all the results of the funded support that the foundation has given will be publicly seen. So they will be able to see their reports and what they have done and what social influences they have managed to do. I think it is also very important for civil society to be associated with citizens and that this is something to continue working on and I agree that we actually have new generations of young people who have entered civil society, or organised civil society that is completely different, which is different from what we have learned so far. These young people, these new generations, this civil society is organised differently through social networks, through other models available. That's not the classic civil society we've learned about in the last 20 years. So we need to keep that in mind, too, and we need to actually and models of support and cooperation with this way to adapt organised civil society. It is also important to create synergies and integration between civil society organisations and other institutions because this is important because we are not opposing sides, we are different actors who contribute to the social and economic development of this country and of course we all care about living in an orderly democratic country and that this contribution, this small modest contribution, is a different approach that the national foundation has, I hope, one rock in that mosaic. Thank you very much for your discussion and your interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-29-0.u1639	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. My colleagues and colleagues will continue with the plenary session next Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the final proposal of the Law on the short payment of salaries on the basis of years of work, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.2. And I remind the presidents and vice-presidents of the board that they must call their committees on Tuesday to discuss, in order for the committees to discuss certain points of the agenda. Thank you very much, I'll see you. Session adjourned at 13.20 p.m. And now we're voting on the dots. First annual report on the work of the National Civil Society Development Foundation for 2014. Reporter National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "An annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2014. A year.". Please vote. The vote is over. 111 votes for, 4 abstentions, I find that most votes have reached a conclusion in the proposed text.
