ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-16-0.u208	Thank you. So, on behalf of the club, I'd like to request a break, given that we'd like to point to a state of milking. At ten o'clock at the Ministry of Agriculture, a very important meeting will be held on which the future of milk production in Croatia depends, and we would like to brief the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-16-0.u209	I'm approving a ten-minute break. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] Representative Lackovic of the Rada Party and Solidarity asked for a break. I'd like Agent Lackovic to explain the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-16-0.u211	I would like to thank the President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here in these 3 days we will pass a whole set of legislative proposals and solutions that settle certain issues related to the receipt of salaries of employees and entrepreneurs. And those who are not affected by this set of laws and are exposed to an exceptional single market risk are producers and milk processors in the Republic of Croatia. Today, at 10 o'clock at the Ministry of Agriculture, a very important meeting of expert advice on monitoring the state of production and processing of milk that must take urgent measures, emergency decisions to stop this incredible trend, I will also say the public relations with farmers, to those who do not ask for a job or to prepare any zone for them. They're only looking for fair and fair business conditions and they've been burned since 2006, please listen to me, with 38 thousand 145 milk suppliers in 2015. 9948 suppliers. In September this year, there were 7,000 suppliers. With its own production, Croatia does not cover its own needs in the European Union and is currently at 59% of the necessary production for its own needs, all other imports. She prepared this information for me and asked for this... Association of Family Agricultural Economics Croatian life and producer organization Association of Milkers Drava-Sava. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They listen that the claims of banks will be written off, uncharging, they ask that all those milk producers in charge of HBOR also be freed from repaying debts that cannot be recovered and to stop the practice that has been carried out so far. And this is to your knowledge that there is an open application in the Republic of Croatia, a tender for all those who want to reduce, so we are covering even 60% of the only ones and we want to further reduce our production and we are co-financed by EU funds with kuna and 4 limes per litre or 0.14 eurocent. So are we humans normal? 60% of our production and now we're co-financed to produce even less. For comparison, I'm going to say that in nine months, Lactalis has shown a net profit of 90 million kuna. For your comparison, I will also say that, for example, Lidl and Kaufland have milk prices in Austria 5.6 kuna, Slovenia 4 kuna and in Croatia 2 kuna and 89 limes. So I'll tell you another interesting piece of information, which is that Croatian milk production fell 21% as it grew everywhere in Europe. The Republic of Slovenia produces more milk than the Republic of Slovenia and Austria 6 times more than the Republic of Slovenia. So the lowest retail price in Germany is 4 kuna milk and 18, in Serbia 4.21, in Slovenia 4.95, in Austria 5.71, in France 6.17 lipa, in Croatia 2.89. What does this smell like to you? I think the data is very clear, I think the measures that should be introduced are very simple, should be introduced at a fair price. So what other EU countries have is under number 1 that it can't be the price of a liter of water more expensive than a liter of milk. And on the other hand, the VAT currently charged from 5% to milk to be directly transferred to milk producers. You had a sector of 38 thousand manufacturers, you currently have seven, you don't cover 60% of the production and you see that there are buyers of milk that show enormous profits and you have non-transparent business of trade chains that destroy our production with dumped prices. Among other things, you do not have a proper declaration of milk declared as Croatian and is actually a diluted substrate in 1:10 ratio, so we drink Croatian milk. And currently Croatia stimulates imports of cattle from Romania for 1500 to 2000 kuna per throat until the production of symental in Croatia is stimulated with 0 kuna, the idea of producers from Hungary to achieve incentives in their country by importing them from Romania and then re-importing them to the Republic of Croatia, retaining 150 days in a Croatian company that would be founded and taking another boost. I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Tolusic receive full support in the Government and that we begin to address these burning problems in agriculture because we have space, not in exports as much as in reducing imports and I think agriculture and milk production is the most obvious example and could be an example of a solution to other problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-16-0.u212	I would like to thank Agent Lackovic.
