ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u292	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I'm looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u293	Now we can't do it in this time of the Rules of Procedure. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u294	On the eve of the vote on the next item.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u295	You can't ask for a break in the middle of the vote, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u296	It may be on the eve of the vote, after the vote of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u297	On the eve of the vote, but we're not. Actually, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u298	We are looking for a break to see why this time is not on the agenda to vote on the half-yearly report of the Croatian National Bank and the Annual Report for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u299	Okay. That's why I can answer you right now, so we don't have to ask for a break. So this time it was not the vote because during the debate there were controversial thoughts about whether, some claimed that a report should be accepted or rejected, and some argued in their discussions that only the report should be kept in mind. That's why we're gonna, let me talk? That is why we will refer this question to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to answer to give us a measurement opinion. Therefore, whenever we receive a response from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, we will, of course, put it on the agenda for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u300	I'm interested in the Rules of Procedure. Who asked for an opinion? I think it's point 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u301	I asked for an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u302	All right, we're just interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u303	I've asked for an opinion, or I'll ask for an opinion officially. We haven't finished voting at all. ... No, it's over. [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand.]] If you're gonna stay, we'll figure it out, if we don't. Then there's no conclusion on this point either. I'm asking you to check the quorum now because we don't seem to have it. Yeah, of course we don't have a quorum. Therefore, we cannot continue to vote, nor with the rest of the point that we have had and which has been interrupted, I would like to make it very clear immediately about the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The continuation of the session, but obviously some do not care, will be on 15 March at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the proposal for a budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. I ask that the committees all meet on Monday and discuss the budget on Monday as well as to discuss the laws that we have put on the agenda today. Because next week, we're going to discuss the budget on Tuesday, and the rest of the days are primarily about the laws that have now come from the government and that we've put on the agenda. I also ask all members of the Patriot coalition to meet me at the Šokčević Hall at the club of representatives. Session interrupted at 12.39 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4679	Here's our esteemed colleague and colleagues. We're moving on with our day's work. We go with the agenda point, scheduled - Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by our Committees on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Ivan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4680	The Honorable Vice-President and Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is therefore before you a report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. On the basis of reports from the relevant authorities of the state administration, public institutions of local and regional self-government units, civil society organisations and other relevant institutions shall draw up the Annual Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, which shall, in accordance with the obligations of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse, refer the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Assembly. The report contains pooled data for 2014 and this epidemiological data on people treated for drug abuse, data on drug abuse, review of activities in the field of drug abuse, prevention and treatment carried out by relevant ministries, county bodies, associations and treatment communities during 2014. According to the figures shown, all resolution ministries have actively implemented measures of national strategy and action plan and have achieved satisfactory results. In 2014 a total of 7812 people were treated in the healthcare system, which was less than a year ago for 46 people. The proportion of opiate addicts in the total number of treated subjects is similar to previous years and is 79.9%. According to the main asset of opiate addicts, heroin addiction prevails, 95.1%, while opiate addicts are dominated by cannabis addiction, 70.2%. In 2014, 99 people died from the causes of psychoactive drug abuse. According to data received by the end of May 2015 in Croatia, 99 people died in 2014. It is important to point out that 13 of them had not been to treatment before. The most overdosed was due to methadone of 27.3 while heroin overdosed 14 people. It can be concluded from these data that in Croatia the treatment system is stable and that it works as well as the fact that more and more different programs are being offered to addicts and that they are being kept in treatment longer and longer. However, since there is still a very high average age of people who first come to treatment for 26 years, there is still a need to further develop selective and indicated prevention programmes to attract as many young drug and drug users as possible in the early stage of the disease into some forms of treatment. According to the interior ministry's 2014 statistics, a total of 2707 crimes related to drug abuse and trafficking were reported, representing an increase of 0.9%. The average share of drug abuse crime in the total crime in the Republic of Croatia during 2014 was 4.9%, with an increase of 0.6% in 2014 compared to the previous year, the total number of drug seizures continued to rise and a record number of seizures recorded so far was 9166, as well as 29% higher compared to the previous year. This has also contributed to increased police activity in tourist centres during the summer months when a large number of music festivals are held. It is particularly concerned that in 2014 the Center for Forensic Studies, Research and Arts Ivan Vučetic identified 8 new psychoactive substances in the form of mixtures, resins, tablets, stamps and powder. Therefore, in December 2014, the Minister of Health adopted a new regulation on drugs, psychotropic substances and drugs from which drugs can be obtained. Which, due to generic formulations under legal control, put in place a wide range of new psychoactive substances that became available in our area in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4681	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4682	Dear colleagues. So at its 2nd session, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. In the opening part of the proposal, he presented detailed data on the situation, which is still present today, Mr Petkovic, meaning on the state and measures taken to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, and this report is quite comprehensive and contains epidemiological data on persons treated for drug abuse, drug abuse data, drug abuse data, and an overview of activities in the field of drug abuse, prevention and treatment of addiction carried out by the relevant authorities of the Ministry, the county, associations and the therapeutic community. It is particularly highlighted in the report and progress that is reflected in the development of legal instruments and responses to the supply and demand of drugs that are in line with contemporary European legislation on drug issues. The importance of the adoption of standardised guidelines for the field of treatment, the acceptance of the concept of quality standards as criteria of funding for programmes and projects implemented by associations, the implementation of specific education and training in line with detected needs on the ground, the strengthening of communication and cooperation with county drug prevention policy providers, the promotion of cooperation between the criminal repressive system and the treatment system is highlighted. As the Deputy Minister said in 2014 7812 people were treated in the healthcare system, which is only for 46 people less than a year ago. Similar to the year before the new addicts were treated, there were 1055 which was 13.5% of the total number of patients treated. According to data collected by the office in 2014 the treatment community provided psychosocial treatment and withdrawal from dependence on a total of 615 people of whom 259 were new arrivals, and 42.1%, respectively. Therefore, it can be concluded from the above data that in the Republic of Croatia the treatment system is stable, it works well as it confirms that more different programmes are offered to addicts and that they are kept in treatment longer and longer. This did not agree with one of our board members by expressing his individual opinion that he did not agree with this concept of drug abuse, believing that this approach would further increase the number of addicts. I believe he may take the floor and explain his position. The board members praised the fact that heroin availability on the Croatian market has been reduced and that opiate dependence has been on stagnation or decline over the past few years, but voiced concern about the increase in marijuana consumption and some new trends in drug consumption among young people. The alarming appearance of new psychoactive substances in the form of plant mixtures, resins, tablets, stamps and powder has also been identified. Since various addictive behaviours such as gambling addictions, betting, the Internet, games and others are also seen, a new strategic framework and new forms of treatment aimed at those addicts should be developed, as highlighted in the debate. In this respect, individual board members also believe that the practice of integrated access and coordination of resolution ministries, existing resources, the holder of measures and research in the overall system should also focus on these forms of addiction and what we actually think that we will also work on. The Committee members also stressed the importance and need of inter-resorship cooperation, agreeing with the fact that all resolution ministries have actively implemented the measures of the National Strategy and the Action Plan and have achieved a satisfactory result with existing, not always sufficient resources. So all the board members unanimously supported this material before you and decided to propose means to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4683	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one for discussion came from a respected representative, Sandra Krpan, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4684	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, Mr Petkovic, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club accepts the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. The methodology for making the report is very good, and only the report contains a number of data and gives very detailed insight into this problem. The co-operation of competent authorities, institutions and institutions, units of local and regional self-government, civil society organisations is visible. 4.9% in the total number of criminal offences reported refers to drug crime. For such a low percentage, I believe that the employees of the MUP and customs are primarily responsible and I want to thank them on behalf of the SDP club. An important and positive change has taken place with amendments to the Penal Code which distinguishes drug possession from possession for further sale, and is a violation of sanctioning with fines and mandatory treatment measures. Not only is the infringement procedure simpler, faster, which saves money from the state budget, but it also fills it with the collection of criminal penalties, but it is much more important for young people who find themselves in this offence to be directed as soon as possible to treatment, work for the greater good rather than that the court proceedings take several years and thus loses the purpose itself. It's a greater benefit for society, not to mention a stigma that can mark a person's entire life when we know that, according to the results of the drug experimentation research, they're moving out of curiosity at the voice of a friend. There's a saying in our people: youth, madness, and it's okay to be slightly fonder of these youthful madnesss. In doing so, we must not interfere with two important facts. Young people in Croatia come in relatively early contact with drugs. The average is 16 years old, drugs are marijuana. When they're 20 years old, they're in contact with heroin, and only when they're 26 years old are they starting treatment. Ten years too late. That is why it is extremely important to prevent such behaviour, and this can only be done by systematic education, and I would like to highlight the importance of county committees that know the needs of their counties to control drugs, teaching institutions, welfare centres. For several years, the number of treated addicts in Croatia has been between 7,000 and 8,000, and we can talk about a controlled situation. We are also happy to live in a country where the family plays an important role and, thanks to the family, addicts are not excluded, but have strong support for their members. But we must never forget that these family members also need professional help. Wearing that cross isn't easy. The addictive population in Croatia is on average 40 years old, and it is in our interest to be working productive, pay taxes, start a family when they are finished with treatment. Resociation, schooling, retraining, hiring addicts is what we have to work on as a society more. Parents often fail to recognize their child’s drug use, and when faced with it, they often refuse to accept it as true. We can't leave our children on the street. Schooling must be extended and so not only basic, but it is my opinion and secondary school in the Republic of Croatia that is mandatory. It's that poor country that saves on education. There are too few professional school associates today, and these are the first people to see the problem, to provide help, but above all, these people can prevent risky behavior through their professional work. The health care education that was introduced to schools during Minister Zeljko Jovanovic who caused so many unnecessary storms in the public does only good to our children because our children in these matters have been abandoned. Only a troubled and screwed-up person can see bad in modules, live healthy, prevention of addiction, prevention of violent behavior, sexual gender equality and responsible sexual behavior. Not only are addictions very often followed by mental illnesses and disorders addicts at an increased risk of infections such as hepatitis B and C, and HIV, and studies show that they are more prone to risky sexual behaviour, promiscuity and sexual relations without protection. So how can we close our eyes and feel that health care is not important in 2016 in the 21st century? Every kuna invested in education is a well-invested kuna, because education is prevention. I'd like to highlight here the training of life skills that is being conducted in the schools of the Primorje-Gorski County. The programme is implemented in partnership between the school and the teaching Institute for Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, and is located at the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction as a Croatian example of good practice. It's a program to prevent risky behavior, smoke, alcohol consumption, drug abuse, and it's meant for third to seventh grade students. The report also lists other programmes implemented in the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to list Health for five, Mah one and Mah two because I am personally familiar with them as particularly good by the Ministry of the Interior. All programmes to be implemented must be evaluated professionally, should be closely monitored if they justify the resources achieved. Because we will all agree that those activities that achieve the best results should provide additional funding, and those who are not successful in reducing or completely denying funding through public funds. Although this report primarily refers to drug abuse, it also contains a report on the implementation of the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System, as well as children and young people in the social care system for the period 2010-2014. It is the first document that unites preventive strategies, which aims to prevent and prevent the emergence of all forms of addiction among children and young people, and the risky behaviour of children and young people associated with experimentation with means of addiction, including prevention of drug addiction, alcohol, smoking, the Internet and betting. We especially need to take care of new forms of addiction, which are Internet and betting among young people. And I will end this exhibition by quoting you part of the sentence on page 54 of this report: "In the context of the said law, alcohol and alcoholic beverages are considered beer, wine.", the end of the quote. I know this thinking may piss off some people who do beer production but beer advertising should be banned on television. Looking at these commercials if you drink one foreign beer you can learn how to be the right man, the kind of woman who wants to know that one/one is enough. If you prefer domestic beer, you can go back to the past, get to know the wealth of Croatian dialects, toponymes, geography, develop national pride by cheering for the Croatian team. Those commercials are sending the wrong message. Alcohol is socially acceptable, part of Croatian tradition and culture. If cigarettes are no longer advertised on television, tobacco factories aren't ruined, neither are brewers. With greetings from Rovinj, we can also have greetings from Karlovac and Osijek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4685	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Margareta Mađerić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A very short replica related to the discussion of distinguished colleagues and the topic of health education. Unfortunately, for the past 4 years, the government's resolute ministry has done absolutely nothing to increase the professional capacity in schools to both primary and secondary schools, which would be the main institution for the introduction of health care education into schools and to support teachers, teachers and teachers in order to get into school. And as a mother of a child who goes to class with a girl who's in a wheelchair for me, it was horrifying and horrifying to see the beginning of this school year in September when all the children were happily moving to school with disabilities and with developmental difficulties protested here at Mark's Square because the Resort Ministry reduced their funds for assistant fees in the follow-up. So it's something that's inadmissible and that shouldn't have happened. Children with disabilities were supposed to be in school benches with their peers on the first day of school year, not protesting their rights in St. Mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4687	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4688	Dear colleagues, Mađeric, cannot really agree that the Ministry of Science and Education has done nothing to introduce health care to schools, although thanks to the restoring ministry and our minister of health education has entered schools. The professional education of teachers at the activities of the Education and Education Agency and the people working at the school were conducted are quite competent to carry out a health education programme. As far as disabled children are concerned, I am truly sorry that such a problem occurred at the beginning of the school year, but this problem has been solved and today these children have assistants in the follow-up. And the way you treat people with disabilities, I think it's best seen from the budget when you want to introduce a censorship on people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4689	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representatives of Sanja Putice on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4690	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Bekavac, Mr. Petkovic, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I would also say that unfortunately in the term of last government in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports while I was head of a large school in Dubrovnik, we did not have enough professional associates and health education is unfortunately not being introduced by correspondence. I really don't know who measured the relevance and expertise of the existing people in the system who were able to implement all the health care provisions that came to our tables. As far as this report is concerned, I would say that if any report is too late for discussion in the Croatian Parliament, then this report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. I must point out that the 2013 Report was held on 13 March 2015, which is almost a year ago and today we are well in 2016 and we can only assume what will welcome us in the 2015 Report. We are aware that the drug market is what is growing uncontrollably, which is imaginary and every moment the list of new drugs is spreading, that new types of addictions are emerging in Croatian society and that institutions, parents and the wider environment are finding it difficult to keep up with that market. So we'd prefer this to be something we're more up-to-date, more thorough and faster about. As I said, the market is growing unconstitutional, and with it the availability to the end-user, i.e. A drug addict. Unfortunately, drugs are increasingly available. Young people almost on the street can buy drugs every day, and what is a relatively new circumstance in the Republic of Croatia is the position of the Republic of Croatia on the so-called. The Balkan route. So on the Home Office pages, we can read that so-called The Balkan route is used to smuggle heroin due to the shortest road connection between the countries of heroin, Afghanistan and Pakistan to the countries of consumers of the illegal Western European drug market. But also the increase in the traffic of heroin traffickers and passengers use to smuggle heroin with as little investment and reduced risk of seizure and arrest. By accession of Romania and Hungary to the European Union, the so-called The Balkan route is partly only modified due to the Schengen regime and flows north, Serbia, Hungary or Romania. To mention that so-called. The Balkan route in the past few years has run two-way traffic, heroin is heading west and more synthetic drugs are being found in the east, as is evident from the seizures that Turkey is making. Unfortunately, Croatia has become more and more and more and a country in which criminal and illegal activities and ways are being brought into the Croatian market, which is why if we say anything else to the laymen in this area, many newspaper inscriptions that we witnessed in 2014 and today, unfortunately, is nothing different. So recently in February we have a big headline in a daily list that says in a major action arrested Croatian cocaine traffickers, smuggling drugs from South America and the Netherlands to Croatia. Given that we are still in 2016, we should also say that the following provisions can also be found on the Home Office's website in which many countries say that the problem of drugs is very high if not the first place on the national security priorities scale and the health of the nation itself. Drug abuse and drug addiction as a consequence affect all social layers, social communities and all countries. Therefore, the priorities that the state will give drug-related policies depend on the state of prevalence of drug abuse in society, economic opportunities and level of social awareness on all dimensions of this problem. In October 2012, the Croatian Parliament adopted a National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia from 2012 to 2017. The national strategy on the prevention of drug abuse as well as any other national strategy is, in fact, a fundamental document and has served as the basis for the adoption of legal and sublegal regulations in the area of drug abuse prevention and as the basis for drawing up annual action plans to combat drug abuse and implementation programmes in the area. The most important rule of law based on the National Strategy is the Law on the control of drug abuse and the Action Plan on drug abuse from 2012 to 2014 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the detailed name is diluted the guidelines of the National Strategy and the specific tasks of individual perpetrators for the selected budget period based on the evaluation of the previous action plan and new needs in professional approaches. The report we have in front of us for 2014 which I consider necessary to mention and may compare with others, says that in 2014 7812 people were treated in the healthcare system, which is for 46 people less than a year before the treatment of 7858 people. Of the total number of patients treated in 2014 patients, 565 were treated as compared to 2013 when 610 patients were treated by 7.4%. In the absence of hospital treatment, mental health services, prevention of extra-patient treatment of addiction was 7246 persons or 92.7% of all treated subjects. The proportion of opiate addicts in the total number of treated subjects is similar to previous years and is 79.9% and 6241, respectively. The proportion of non-opiotic addicts is 20.1% or 1571 people. According to the main asset in opiate addicts, heroin addiction or 95.1% of all opiate addicts prevails, while non-opiate addicts are dominated by cannabis addiction or 70.2%. Similar to the year before the new addicts were treated in 1055, the proportion of 13.5% of the total number of patients treated. The distribution of treated subjects by sex has not changed significantly in 2014 compared to previous years. According to gender-treated addicts, most of them are male. Of the 7812 total treated 82.4% of subjects were male. While in the past year, 17.5% or 1371 women have been treated for abuse of psychoactive agents. The ratio of treated men and women is 4.7:1 and both men and women are dominated by opiate addiction. Unlike men, women are significantly more often dependent on sedatives. According to data collected by this 2014 office, the treatment community provided psychosocial treatment and withdrawal of addiction for a total of 615 persons, 511 men and 104 women of whom 259 or 42.1% of new arrivals. Compared to 2013 it can be said that the number of new arrivals as well as the total number of addicts in the therapeutic communities has decreased significantly. It can be concluded from these data that in Croatia the treatment system is stable, it works well as it confirms and data that more different programs are offered to addicts and that these addicts are still kept in treatment longer. As reported in the report, a very high average age of first-time users, for 6 years, should continue to develop selective, indicated prevention programmes to attract as many young drug and drug users as possible in the early stage of the disease into some forms of treatment. I also think that today I mention and comment on the fact that often after the treatment has been completed, and we have heard a little bit about numbers, these addicts cannot fit into the social environment for a number of reasons, and one of them is the public's view of the drug addiction problem that marginalises the entire addictive population, stegmatizes and excludes from work, but also from the school environment. Social inclusion should therefore be a logical sequence of psychosocial rehabilitation and treatment, and an important factor in the overall recovery of treated addicts. Unfortunately, there is also an example of criminal and criminal crimes of addicts who have or have not been cured and that socialization should be given much more attention because when a person comes out he can fall into depression and at that point harm himself or others in his environment. We also see from this report that there is a decline in employment compared to the previous year, which is certainly not good, but we are not surprised by the overall situation in 2014, an extremely bad economic situation, an increased number of unemployment and general hopelessness. The report also contributes to the fact that, according to the interior ministry's 2014 statistics, a total of 2707 crimes related to drug abuse and trafficking were reported, representing an increase of 0.9%. We can only actually be afraid of what will be in the 2015 report. The same applies also to data that say that the average share of drug abuse crime in the overall crime in the Republic of Croatia during 2014 is 4.9% and has increased by 0.6% compared to the previous year. What we were looking forward to yesterday at a debate on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports from the director of Mr. Petkovic's office, it is an improvement in the co-operation of this office with the county offices. Also improving cooperation between the criminal-repressive apparatus and the treatment process and treatment of addicts. In 2014, 1749 addicts were in prison, of which 90% were relapsers. It is also important to stress the need to conduct the treatment in prison, which Mr. Petkovic specifically stressed. We also heard that the age limit of addicts entering treatment is, unfortunately, still high, but that from 28 years of age, it dropped to 26. The fact is also in the Republic of Croatia and the uneven spread of drugs as well as everywhere else in Europe, and is dependent on the social state, economic development of a certain area, border areas and also on the number of tourist movements in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. Today, in our country, around 780 million kuna is spent on this problem, and regardless of how much money they have, and whatever the amount of legal acts we bring in the area of drug abuse, it will not all be enough without further improvement of cooperation, in prevention, without further promotion of the cooperation of institutions such as this Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Welfare and Education. Without this quality cooperation, there will be no significant shifts. All of this is said in order to protect and improve our young people. This problem can and must also be seen in the context of extremely poor demographic images in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the context of national security issues. No money in this regard can be too high and too high against the beating solutions of this issue in the Republic of Croatia. Here I can only say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4691	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4692	Mr. Vice President, colleague Putica. So it is not correct to call the last meeting of the ministry for the lack of professional school associates, because it is a problem that existed before the former government took over the management of the Republic of Croatia. This is a problem that has existed for years, and from the budget proposed for this year you can see that 158 million kuna has been proposed for the system of education and science, which only shows that this government will not be able to solve and employ more professional associates. So I agree there should be more of them, but it's not the sin of the last government. And of course, health care education is well-known, you know, being introduced to schools in a way that all those who were conducting it had education. Educations were conducted by the profession, the Education and Education Agency except for one module that caused a lot of polemics, and a little shadowed the others. Other modules Live healthy, prevention of violent behavior and prevention of addiction is extremely well accepted. And there is evidence, therefore, that the conduct of health education is accompanied by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and the evaluation of the implementation of the programme after the first year has shown exceptional satisfaction for both students and teachers who implemented the programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4693	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4694	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Jovanovic, you speak to me today from the position of the parliamentary representative, and during the period during which we discussed you were Minister of Science, Education and Sports, so in that sense you had every authority to change such a situation in schools regardless. So we cannot justify what was in the previous period and previous governments. As for this year's budget for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, of course, it would be much easier for that ministry to leave a much better situation in the past government, so we probably wouldn't have to save on education. As for health care, you can correct me again, but in my five-year term, I don't remember being brought into school by health care, so we don't have it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4695	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4696	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Putica, you've had a truly comprehensive and good debate on behalf of the club and I can certainly support it as we support this report. I do not want to diminish the efforts and efforts of the director of the office as well as of the entire office, but in your debate you started with a sentence in which you insist on the delay of this report's arrival in the Croatian Parliament. My kind of thinking goes in the direction that no matter what year our statistics are roughly equal and equal and I'm afraid that's how it's going to be in the coming years. Namely, the number and the addicts and the number of treated addicts per chance for years are already somehow moving between 7 and 8 thousand, which should certainly be much better in terms of being much smaller that number, if it does nothing at least then because we all know that our birth rate is such and we're losing the number of children. And if we look at it that way, then the number of addicts is still on the rise. Of course, we will achieve nothing without prevention, without strong prevention that will go from the earliest days, from the smallest school classes together with the family, with the education of parents who very late realize that their children are old when they can play with what creates addiction and certainly from society as a whole. As far as health care was concerned, there was a lot of talk about it, but not about suppressing addiction, there was talk about sexuality, about gender awareness, which I certainly think is important, but this is one piece of information from this report that says that we haven't really paid any attention to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4697	Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4698	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your colleagues made a good point in the debate and talked about the problem of drug smuggling on these routes you listed on the Balkan routes. But it's a matter of prevention, it's all important, but it seems to me how important it is that these drug dealers themselves, the bosses that are the biggest problem of this society. And the key question is what do those who are paid at the MUP, maybe even do, what do they do in the DORH if they get from the MUP if they do it selectively or unselectively? That's very important. For what? Because the fact, by conducting this school prevention program, is still most likely, if children, come to drugs, that drug dealers are certainly close to school, they didn't fall from Mars. The key question is what does not just prevent what is important, perhaps the most important, what does the system that has been paid for, means the MUP, the DORH and the other institutions that are in charge of fighting the drug mob and criminals in whatever government and how many governments have made these and those programs but is it possible in the system that someone is protecting these drug dealers who are poisoning our children? Because it's obvious that the increase, regardless of the reduction in the treatment, is that the increase in drugs in society is at all levels in all places, and unfortunately around the schools themselves. There we need to take into account both the MUP and the other law enforcement authorities that poison our children in a criminal way, and basically only have profits. And that's the biggest problem of society, and there's national security at stake because they're poisoning, polluting our future and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4699	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4700	Dear Representative Bulj, as I said in my debate without an improved co-operation between this office and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education will not have significant shifts. And why do I say that? Because we were just on the board discussing the possibility of changing the powers of police officers and their presence in the schoolyards as well as the possibility that schools themselves occasionally when they see that it is necessary to test their students for certain drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4701	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4702	The Honorable Chairman, our rapporteurs. The club of the Independent Lists will support this report and I will discuss only this topic a little bit. So let's do it again. In 1987, the UN General Assembly officially declared its June 26th resolution on the International Day against Drug Abuse and illicit drug trafficking, all with the aim of strengthening co-operation between all actors involved in addressing this major global problem. It also seeks to draw public attention daily to the consequences of drug abuse and drug trafficking on the individual and society as a whole. This year's UN motto and campaign is, "Let's build our lives, our communities, our drug-free personalities." According to the UN Office of Drugs and Crime, about 200 million people consume illegal drugs such as cocaine, marijuana, hallucinogenic drugs, opiates and sedated hypnotics. In addition, dependence on psychoactive drugs is closely linked to other social problems such as poverty, unemployment, prostitution, delinquency, crime, homelessness and health risks of primarily AIDS-type infectious diseases, hepatitis C, hepatitis B, sexually transmitted diseases and ultimately high mortality. National drug policy depends on many factors such as political and economic stability, the availability of various professional and scientific achievements in this area, the spread of drug abuse, social awareness of this phenomenon, and the legal system and geographical position of a particular country. The national strategy is a fundamental strategic document in the area of drugs and constitutes a framework for the action of all state institutions and civil society organisations to combat drug abuse, prevention of addiction and to provide and assist drug addicts and occasional drug consumption, as well as to assist individuals, families and society as a whole in overcoming drug abuse difficulties. The first National Strategy to repeat drug surveillance, the prevention of drug abuse and the assistance of drug addicts in the Republic of Croatia was brought by this Croatian Assembly back in 1996 and, on the basis of that National Strategy 2001, the Law on the prevention of drug abuse was adopted. I would be here to suggest that today the greatest mortality is thought to be due to the fact that whoever brings in his overdosed friend is actually getting a criminal application at the moment he's brought in and saved his life. So I have examples, these days they mentioned to me that a colleague, that one of the addicts got on two occasions two years in prison because he brought a friend to whom he saved his life, he said the third time it won't happen to me. So the problem of addiction actually means that they simply because we can solve this overdose as doctors simply don't lead them to a medical institution in time but leave it because they know they're going to get a criminal application. The problem of drug addiction is not a local problem but a global problem of modern society that requires access to and from global, regional and national levels with a fundamental goal of stopping the growing emergence of drug addiction, drug abuse and crime related to drug abuse, and thus protecting the fundamental value of the social community. In view of the fact that the time period from developing addiction to seeking help is the most often of the full 10 years during which the family from which the individual comes and his health is definitely damaged. A special emphasis should be placed on parents and timely recognition of problems within the family itself. So despite the positive results and the stable trend, further efforts need to be made to address the problem in all EU member states, as well as our countries show that this poses an increasing threat. Croatia's rate of drug addicts on opiates per 100,000 inhabitants aged 15-64 is 216. But even in 7 counties, it means for Croatia 216 addicts to 100 thousand but in several counties it is above average, so in Zadar 486 to 100 thousand, Istria 474, above are Sibenik-Kninska, Primorje-goranska, City of Zagreb, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Split-Dalmatia while the other counties are below Croatian average. The development of technology also creates new compounds, many harmful substances are allowed by law and are free to sell because legislation cannot react quickly enough. According to available data in the last 5 years in Croatia, more than 80 new drugs have been identified and the results of the Eurobarometer survey for 2014 show that the life shift in the consumption of new drugs from 15 to 24 years in Croatia is 7%. So in the course of life 7% of Croatian citizens will take drugs as low as possible, slightly lower than the European average of 8%. In 2013 alone, 83 new drugs that mimic the effects of classical drugs were discovered in Europe and in 2014 as much as 200 new compounds were detected, which we need to distinguish from the very meaning, from the very one that says classical drugs, which is a compound, and currently follows more than 450 new psychoactive substances detected in the last few years through the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. So the market is waiting and they're ready to bring new and new psychoactive substances. Special attention should be given to the problem of smart shops that in recent years hastily niche in the world, as well as in Croatia where some new scented substances and air fresheners contain artificial cannabinoids similar to those in marijuana that are rarely more dangerous. Although experts systematically analyse and list drugs, manufacturers are quick to manage and organise and place new substances on the market that are sometimes different from those known only in some minor change in the monocular structure itself. We all know that smart shops specialize in the sale of psychoactive substances and accompanying tools and literature and on this plan, so we must also work to curb such trade. Drug abuse is caused by curiosity, poor information about their harmful effects, the need to resolve subjective and objective difficulties through psychoactive substances. This also contributes greatly to the circumstances of the environment, individuals, family conflicts, at school, with peers, the inability to establish normal communication and solve the problems created in an appropriate and socially acceptable way. Drug dealers offer him drugs and then blackmail them and impose their behavior. So the young and the girls become their victims and reach the world of the underworld even though they do not belong to or do it. Prevention is I consider the most important form of drug addiction control. The comparison of the data from this report with the 2005 report clearly shows that the proportion of treated addicts in age groups below 25 and the proportion of older ones is increasing. What does that mean? This is due to the reduced inflow of new addicts and their long-term retention in treatment, indicating the chronic character of this disease and the need for long-term treatment. Centres for prevention and non-patient treatment of addictions since 2005 have been integrated as a network of centres within the county public health services under the co-ordination of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and since 2010 have expanded their activities to protect mental health of children and young people. As such, they are a key element in the Strategy for the Prevention of Risky Behaviors of Young People and the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Centres for prevention and non-patient treatment of addiction other than direct participation in treatment conduct have other specific tasks. They organise and conduct specific individual and group counselling for young people and families, provide assistance to educationally educated institutions in implementing part of the activities envisaged by preventive programmes in the system of education and education, and in particular specific education of professionals in the education system, support the implementation of activities for early detection of risk behaviours and mental disorders, together with professional services at the school medical and social care centres, and coordinate the implementation of all preventive activities in order to reduce the risk of spread HIV infection and hepatitis. What I'm saying is that in our population, the incidence of HIV infection and hepatitis is lower than those we meet in Europe. Now, I'd like to commend two programs. How do we think that prevention should go, and then I'll start with the programs that are being implemented in my county. So they're an example of how we should start from young days. One is still on the move in 2005, and this is given the growing problem of abuse of funds of addiction, the School of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski County is a systematic and comprehensive program of universal prevention for students of all six and seven classes based on life... The program, a program that has experienced some changes, has been constantly working today as a program to promote mental health and skills training. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been going on for more than 10 years. Nearly 10,000 students participate in 50 schools in Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski County. The second programme, conducted by the teaching institution, has also been launched by our Primorje-Gorski County since 2010 as a comprehensive programme of screening mental health students of the seventh grade of all primary schools. So, this is recognized as an age group in which one program is to be conducted by psychologists with the cooperation of school doctor and professional services and the basis of screening results and team synthesis of school doctor, school associate and other co-workers working on the promotion of mental health of ten percent of children and their parents are recommended to add after this screening to the psychologist or school doctor. There they are directed to the possibility of involvement in individual and family counselling, psychotherapy, psychiatric treatment of the parents and adolescents group. It's the 10% that are supposed to be children who are going to go one way that might end up getting into this risky behavior and addiction. So far experience in the implementation of this programme shows that most of the children appear at the counseling site due to behavioral problems, learning difficulties and meeting school obligations, buliling or anxiety disorders and conditions. This kind of public-health screening program is an organisational model of breakthrough and breakthrough in the population and need, so after that for intervention, early intervention at that level at that age means 13 to 14 years of children and is originally locally developed our program that we consider to be very good. It's final. Young ones need to be brought up to be reasonable, responsible, and conscious. To make them immune to getting in touch with drugs in a difficult situation within the family avoid the temptation to try it, experiment with it, and become consumers and addicts. They should be objectively informed about drugs and their effects on health long before they come to an opportunity to make a choice and decide whether to taste it or not. If reason makes a man feel guided by it. The most important is education and prevention, and it is the primary one whose purpose is not to abuse drugs, because it is much better, more effective and cheaper to prevent it than to treat it. Unfortunately, it still invests more in treatment than in prevention. The treatment is delicate, very complex, it takes a long time, it's expensive, the prognosis sometimes poor, the prognosis of healing uncertain, and half of the treated addicts need to know they're reciting. The problem of drugs is recognised as the need for continued coordinated professional knowledge and quality access to its resolution. Therefore, as stated in the Office for control of drug abuse in Croatia, we spend 700 million kuna annually. I think, once again, I advocate a more comprehensive, more effective, professional and systematic prevention of addiction, the strict punishment of drug mafia, drug dealers and drug dealers, which should absolutely be our priority as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4703	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4704	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Ines, you have indeed detected the problem well, and above all, well-detectable prevention by illustrating it through an example in your area of living in the Primorje-Gorski County. Perhaps just add that, with this prevention, it is necessary to think in decisions and laws that are made at both local and county level and also national level. How to interpret that mainly in summer, during the season due to profits decisions are made at local level on the work of cafes, disco clubs and not only on weekends until 4 or 5 a.m. How to interpret opening and further incentives from local communities, counties, as well as from national level of opening of beach areas that work continuously for 48 or 72 hours. How to interpret that young people who organize themselves have already come out of their own abstinence and open retro centres, centres to help citizens in their local community, and then the local community doesn't recognize them. So, in addition to this, everything you've done here really well and quality-detecting should be encouraged and the problem of the wider community starting with decisions at local level, county, national law and decision-making levels not directly related to this issue. But he, these decisions implicate this problem, deepening it, and it would be very interesting to see statistics on registered drug users during the summer period and the rest of the year, mainly in the coastal area along the Adriatic coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4705	Thank you. The distinguished representative Ines Strenja-Linić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4706	Well, fellow thanks for this comment, you're right. So we have right, I haven't prepared the data, exactly how many tourists are practically most of them under the influence of psychoactive substances were brought in and punished in violation only during these parties and festivals that actually happen along our coast, so ULTRA and in some way, I'm not saying I absolutely support these activities, concerts. Young people have to have fun. But for example, what happens on Zrća and everything, the part that is brought in is usually those who are either in an alcoholic state or under the influence of drugs. Each environment has its specifics. So you have somewhere more successful to deal with dealers and then you have there like that. in Rijeka one of the most expensive shots of heroin in Croatia, so good is done there because drugs are much harder to reach end-users. Of course, you can come anywhere. Local environments, yes, we must not think that we have tourism and tourism is what we live from but also certain controls of what happens especially during the summer months when thousands and thousands of foreigners come, a part of them and as dealers supplying these festivals. It's something we should sanction, monitor, and somehow prevent it from being distributed to those who just come there to have fun. Because if it is available, of course, that many of them go and maybe even try drugs for the first time, and then it goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4707	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4708	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues Strenja-Linić, what you are now talking about is prevention and action plans to curb drug addiction, I agree entirely, mainly with activities in your regional area and local self-government. This should apply to the whole of Croatia such an example. It is very important that you have noted and this is a drug mafia which is obviously in the grip because it cannot happen that Croatian citizens pay means their taxes and obligations and that we still have a number of drug dealers. Well, like I just said at school. So, so far, all governments obviously and services mean the secret service of Croatia obviously there is one problem here, which is the policy and some of these services that should be working to fight the drug mafia. That's what we need to work on. Because I can't believe that that much money is being invested, and we have this much system and that money is basically not doing anything but still in front of the school, and in front of all the places, we have people who make money. If one of them gets caught, it's either sanctioned or sanctioned by some kind of dealer, it's a lower rank. Where's the drug mob? And is the force of politics and law enforcement at such a level that nothing can be done? Simply national security is at risk if an emergency action plan on national security is not dealt with on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4709	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Ines Strenja-Linić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4710	I agree with my colleague Bulj but I think this repressive apparatus should only continue to apply strictly the laws at his disposal and that we can find solutions there. I think there's just one more thing that I haven't mentioned, which is that our society doesn't need to stegmatize addicts who are willing to go to treatment and come out somehow cured. It is a matter of their relapse and our society must be willing to accept such people, positively discriminate them against the possibility of employment because in this way we will prevent their relapse, enable them to reintegration into our society so that they can because one part of them really becomes and actively knowing what the drugs did to them as an individual and to their families can be actively and themselves involved in further drug prevention. So I absolutely appeal that we have to work very hard on those who come out, get rid of drugs and give them support as a society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4711	Thank you very much. Let's move on, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS-HDS, the word will now be taken by the distinguished representative Goran Dodig, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4712	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, respected rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the Report on the prevention of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, and as far as the report is concerned, I say in advance the Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Croatian Democratic Party supports this report but far from supporting the strategy against this monster. And I don't know when I see how interested we are, how many of us are here who are interested in this subject obviously not of interest to this House. And God forbid any of you happen to have such a person in your own family or in your own family or someone you care about in any way. This is not the problem of the last government, to be clear, this is not the problem of the previous government, this is a problem that lasts for ten years. We keep saying that we have successful programs, and not just that the number of addicts is growing by which the report doesn't quite see it, but the question is who was delivering the data, the data you presented here, is very good, not I would say complete data. I'm sure they're not all data. And I'm telling you this as a man working with addicts, working with addicts, working with their families and trying to help them as much as possible. And the way it helps these people today is almost negligible. We have well-developed theoretical programs that have not been checked in practice. On the other hand, which proved to be ineffective in practice. What we're saying is that she's been treated so many and so many addicts, it doesn't mean anything yet. Has anyone asked how many have been cured? Has anyone asked how many are resocialized, how many have these people been employed? Of course it's not because nobody cares. But the most tragic fact is that it doesn't even interest the profession. The profession has been quite involved in this chaotic approach to this problem. And that's why I don't think it's possible to talk about strategy here, so you need a more serious conversation, and I'm offering myself as an associate to hear me as a devil's lawyer, so yes, because that's a common problem. We're chasing concepts here. We're talking about abuse and addiction, it's two different things, it's not the same thing. We're talking about prevention, and there's a question of what prevention is. I'm sorry there aren't any of these kids up here, you know, I'd give myself the right, I'd ask the cameras not to shoot them, so I'd ask them what their attitude to marijuana is. You know what their attitude is? Everyone thinks it's a good thing. Medical students think it's good. The street thinks it's good. And I'm sorry I didn't bring one slide to show you what the brain of a person who consumes marijuana and a person who hasn't consumed marijuana in five, six years. If we were being honest, if we were being honest here, so if I asked you if anyone had tried marijuana, I'm sure there would be people here who would say they did. Government presidents in the Republic of Croatia publicly said they tried to take marijuana. There's something called an I.D. model. And this isn't just a child problem, they're just the worst victims in the problem. This is a person's problem. Don't think if we tell the kids it's not good and we do it that we did something. We actually told them and you do it. When you look at television programs where movies are made as families take drugs, very respectable families, medical families, then don't expect children of 12, 16 years old, I assure you that it starts at 10, 12 years old, it looks amazing but it's a fact. Has anyone examined the attitudes of teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers toward the problem? It's not. The street has imposed criteria on us. When psychiatry is the closest thing to this problem, but it's not a psychiatric problem, but psychiatry is the closest thing to this problem in medicine. Then I can tell you that this profession has also fallen under the influence of the street and the layman's public in which very exposed people say, I've spoken to this woman and I've seen nothing sick about that woman. And he puts pressure on a profession that gives in and lets a woman like that out of the hospital. No one asks after 7.8 months what happened to that woman who was released from the hospital. I'll tell you, she killed herself, she killed herself. There's no responsibility for that. We live in fear of a public who doesn't answer, who isn't responsible for producing that fear. That's why this drug problem, addiction, consumption, cocaine weekend addiction is a terrible problem. When you put it in the context of health in general. And I assure you that health today, not to assure you, there are articles about how the United States is beginning to think about this problem from a security and military aspect rather than from this aspect that we're talking about, medical, human, health, but from a security military aspect. They won't have anyone to join the army and America needs an army. When I ask these 12, 15-year-olds why they, you know, look at me in wonder, what's wrong with me, why I ask them, well, that's good, everybody tries it. Someone thinks I won't because I won't, they have other interests, but most of them have that interest. Who said, Miro Bulj to wait in front of schools, is offered in front of schools. The police we often say don't do their jobs, do their jobs, but not allow them, those people who want to do something, are not allowed to do them, and the legal provisions are such that he's in more trouble than an addict, but a drug dealer. I often come into the situation as a court expert that I have to assess the number of this addict and lie to save him, to save him from prison, to save him from the Stigma. But don't think that just because he's registered as an addict he'll get a job somewhere. In this kind of relationship with a man, an addict has no chance of surviving. Unfortunately, it becomes a ballast of society, which is too scary. The programs we have aren't worth anything, gentlemen aren't worth anything. Do you know what methadone is? I'm talking about methadone addiction. Well it's a program that in the 1930s in the U.S. only started to be used for 3 indications. Addictional behaviour, long-term and failed several treatments one category. The second is a category of criminal behavior. And the third category of women who are in a different state in an abstinence crisis. You know what an abstinence crisis looks like? You don't know. A life-threatening person, that's a life-threatening person. Methadone today, so we want to start telling the truth isn't a cure. But no one tells their parents it's not treatment. It's a new addiction that's even the same as heroin only makes it worse. There's no such feeling of pleasure as heroin. Well, then they honor themselves and take heroin, but they're still addicts. And you know how to get methadone? You come to the Department of Public Health and you say I'm an addict. Here, you'll get 20 methadone tablets a day. He might take seven, eight, and he's selling the other one on the street. There's no control. But no one tells their parents it's not makeup, it's a substitute for addiction. One case of subtext to be given. In Montenegro, it costs 40 euros each. This is where you get it bad. You come in there and you tell me I need a suboxon or a Saturday and you get it, and then we have a story about how stable the story is when it comes to addiction. If you became one addict, it would be enough for us all to worry. But I assure you that the number of addictions is growing more than it shows, growing more because it's not being reported. I often don't make that diagnosis because I know what it means. So you know what I write? Adolescent crisis, and it's essentially about non-dependence yet but abuse of intoxicating drugs. Marijuana has become our symbol of freedom. It's a dangerous substance, a dangerous substance. I agree with a colleague who talked about both alcohol and beer and advertising. But marijuana can be the trigger for the most severe mental illness and then you lose a person permanently. That's why my dear parliamentary deputies, the respected lady from the ministry, let's try to think about this in one way or another. In Switzerland, which is our role model for a lot of addicts because they live there in a value system where money is actually the most important thing. In the U.S. an awful lot of addicts, they started to think of it as a normal phenomenon. No matter how small we are, we can view it as human, as the difficult and tragic fates of children and families to whom it happens, and they do not have to be our role models. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4713	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4714	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad I heard this exhibit and the man who specializes in psychiatry who obviously has experience. And I didn't know that methadone is not treated for addiction, it's obviously a huge delusion. Well, I'd ask you, two things fell into my eyes like this. You said, yes, that there was no research on how successfully treated addiction is why to try to answer that. And the second question is when you look at a man in the last year, two about how healing marijuana is, which is a flood of media writing in all the media, you get the impression that it's a medicine that treats toothache to cancer and that it's simply something to be taken as a supplement to food. You could say that, food supplement. So please, as an expert, do you think it's a media abuse, what do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4715	The honourable representative Goran Dodig will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4716	Thank you very much. So there's no real results on how many were cured, because it's tearing down this concept of treatment, so if those data were to come out then it would be normal to ask the question, wait why we spent the money, why time, we didn't do anything. It should be revised, at least try to revise the concept of treatment. So, that's, that's my reason. As for marijuana, there is no substance to be administered as a medicine or a similar medicine in an organism that does not have a good one. I remind you that out of ordinary aspirin you can die, you can bleed. That doesn't mean that now, you won't be taking aspirin when you need it. Marijuana is definitely a substance that, in total, has much more damage than good. That in some strictly indicated medical indications it can be given controlled medically, I agree. You know when you have a man who suffers from multiple sclerosis and is helped by marijuana, but not to cure it, but to be a substitute for another pharmacist. You see, there are 7 billion people in the world, you can find the same knees, the same liver, the same corneas, and so you can transplant. But two of the same brains you can't find. Well, that helps some people. Well, people like that who have a serious illness, if it can help them, I would let them go, but strictly medically. But objectively taking this story of marijuana as the perfect drug that helps everything is absolute lie and farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4717	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4718	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's Dr. Dodig, you're quite familiar with all the consequences of the use, distribution and all the possible abuse of intoxicating drugs. And what are all the consequences and what evil does to all our families throughout our beautiful. Your approach and your performance is an inside view, a view of the waist. By listening to you, a man simply wonders how in this honorable House we should really wonder where our society goes and where our country goes in everything it means. Because if children, young people and family are not the future, and if our concern and all our activities and actions are not in that direction, then it is indeed a huge problem. Even with ourselves. Of course, the difficult social and economic situation suggests that you yourself have said that they are resorting and seeking a way out knowingly or unconsciously in hell, a hell called drugs. And listening to this previous reply to the replica, you gave me the same question in one way that I wanted to ask here. But here I am going to connect and also direct from your angle, from your experience knowing what you're doing is the way to suppress or prevent, the right path, because it's either rooted or it's declarative as we do today most often and we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4719	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Dodig will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4720	One word to root. So we need to change the concept of understanding this problem and not take it as the starting basis for relieving the consequences. That's the point. When you give methadone and this is how you approach, you're actually trying to reduce crime and nothing else. The fact that you've created new addicts is going to get into statistics. What you've done to a man who won't be able to get a job anywhere. It'll eventually get into the statistics. What you've done to a person who doesn't want to have tomorrow and can't have children. This problem is also about the most intelligent policy, this problem is about the working ability of us. They're all young people. After that comes treatment, prevention, it's big and I don't have time to explain all that. That's why I said in another place with another composition that it's interested in we can talk about. Treatment at the hospital doesn't make sense to treat an addict unless he's in an abstinence crisis, it doesn't make sense. But we need to know what the therapeutic community is offering, what the concept of the therapeutic community we have so much and so much. Is that a change of worldview, what is it, what is it? The problem is that we are satisfied with the fact that we have good statistics, so we compare them with Swiss, American, German, etc. The problem is that we think that ULTRA is more important to us in Split. Are we going to get 200 thousand kunas or one million kunas anyway, or are we going to have a new drug flood behind it? We can't do as many drugs as new drugs appear on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4721	Thank you very much. And the next is the replica of the esteemed representative Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4722	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, alcohol, drugs, prostitution in small quantities, some would also tolerate it, of course, but as soon as it gets out of hand, it's inadmissible for society. And I will turn to the press for exposure. Why the media? The media had a very harmful effect in the past or in other times on many generations that grew at a certain time by some authorities. So we had opportunities on public television to see one of my Vinkovchan, Barrett, known for many beautiful songs, and also for his past, and we gave his daily appearance in the media and in the society of some highly positioned members of our country. I don't know what to call them. But that's one motive for our youth as it should be, the path. And we are also witnessing that in our Croatian family, faith, country is not modern, it is spit, it is not worth it, it is not and and the thesis is imposed. Well we've also witnessed that we haven't seen our famous patriot and singer Mark Perkovic Thompson for four years on TV, I know it's funny to you, and I think it's funny, except in a negative context. That same man who is a believer, who is a family man and who sings only beautiful songs about his country. ... Tax is another bad situation because we're talking about drugs, alcohol and something else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, then, let it be one guide. So family, country and religion, I know that many of these are foreign but there are still people in Croatia who live in that religion. ... Thank you very much, I don't want any more. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4723	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Goran Dodig will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4724	I'll just say it would be good to sing "Are you pretty" and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4725	Thank you. With these small deviations from the main topic, we will probably go back to the main topic now, and this is the continuation of the discussion of the club representatives. On behalf of the Club of Representatives HSLS, Buz, will speak the distinguished representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4726	Thank you very much, dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. This report in general is very detailed, systematically analysed and we have absolutely no objections to it. We personally believe in our club that the existing system is satisfactory, that it is at a sufficient level. However, our attitude is also that all that is good can always be better. So I'm going to try what Mrs. Strenja-Linić is today, and I've carefully followed your exposure, which is extremely important, and we're a little off-road today that's namely prevention, how to make certain unwanted phenomena not come at all and not to discuss essentially what our resources are in terms of treating the consequences. What is very important is that it is important to note that the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse is a coordinating body for both horizontal and vertical cooperation, which is extremely significant on the ground. And I'm going to be more concerned with this part today that I think can be improved and that's just vertical cooperation. The report shows that activities are being carried out in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. One of the basic principles on which the application of the drug control policy at local level rests is the principle of decentralisation. I'm going to talk about it a little bit more precisely because we all know and we said we should get into that part of the reform. We all know what the relationship is about decentralisation of the role of local self-government, the relationship in the financial capacities of local self-government, the famous relationship of 92:8. Why am I saying that? I am speaking precisely because decentralisation ensures equal availability of different programmes on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia in line with the need for certain counties where the key role in the coordination and implementation of the National Strategy at local level is played by the County Commission to combat drug abuse. And strategic priorities in the area of a particular county are implemented through county action plans to combat drug abuse. And now we're coming up with a problem that I want to point to. Depending on the financial and human resources of certain counties and also on the spread of the problem of drug abuse in counties, the counties have created institutional networks and programmes to address this problem, their implementation points to certain problems which are reflected in the insufficient impact of county committees to combat drug abuse as co-ordination bodies. Of course, there are a lot of specialised staff who would be exclusively involved in the implementation of drug abuse activities and in insufficient involvement of local communities, cities and municipalities in the creation and implementation of but also in the financing of preventive programmes. And now we're going back to the beginning of this story of my how essentially our units of local self-government so cities, municipalities and counties are actually able to participate in the implementation of certain ideas from this National Strategy, what their financial capacities are, some counties can certainly be better there, some are certainly worse. And there is, of course, the issue of prevention of whether some counties are essentially with greater and stronger financial opportunities essentially in this way and more privileged. So that's one approach that we need to talk about, we need to see how and in what way right here on this vertical, at the lowest level, how to do this extra effort to essentially be done on this part, so in the municipalities and cities, we need to improve prevention. During the implementation of the resociation project, which we think is well imagined, it was observed in smaller areas that addicts reluctantly agree to participate in it, of course due to the problem of Stigmatisation. Of course, these are especially the smallest municipalities, cities, where there are also certain forms of drug abuse. It is a very good urge to work primarily to prevent addiction to any possible negative pores that are linked to addiction. In fact, when young people come to the stage of experimenting with certain means of addiction that is not yet considered an addiction, they are late in our opinion half a step, especially from the current bad experiences that we have already talked about today, so they are so-called. new drugs or legal highs, means of addiction that has an active substance that calls for effect and is not on the list of prohibited funds. The most common is synthetic cannabionids that are consumed in the form of various air fresheners, bath salts and the like. Of course, such resources pose an extremely great danger to the health and life of a potential consumer because it can be compared to playing Russian roulette because of the lack of knowledge of funds. Therefore, great attention should continue to be directed to the so - called so - called. smart shops where such funds are supplied. Although the big problem is Internet sales, which, unfortunately, are very difficult to influence. This phenomenon should not be mixed with the consumption of legal means of addiction that are not legal for minors and concerns the consumption of alcohol and smoking of tobacco products, which is already during the debate and have been mentioned and which rarely serve as tickets to this drug world that we are talking about today. It is definitely necessary to strengthen and improve the control of the sale and service of minors through such means of addiction, the consumption of alcoholic beverages on public areas in the Republic of Croatia is not prohibited by special law, so local self-government units must regulate such behaviour through the Law on Public Order and Peace. A special story I would also like to highlight is not to implement the provisions of family law that make the most of parents themselves and let go, so their children who are under the age of 16 are unsupervised after 23 hours. These may be some small things, some things that may not be causing at the moment some major opposition. But it's really important that we take this whole segment and this whole story in order to contain drug abuse as seriously as possible. The system of outpatient treatment of addictions set up at the County Public Health Institutes where it found its place, and in our opinion it should not be transferred to the county health homes as it intended the previous health administration to do. Public health services contain other related services such as epidemiology, which is significant because of the very low frequency of HIV infection of our addicts, which is partly due to the facts mentioned. After all, the register of addicts is located in the Croatian Institute of Public Health, a roof professional institution and a network of county institutions. And finally, I repeat. We think that the system is stable, it needs to be improved on existing foundations, it needs all of these shortcomings that we have during today's debate, but I believe that even in the future it will try to improve it even better. The situation may not be as alarming as it intends to be presented. However, this is a problem indeed which is very serious and which needs to be approached in a systematic, rational way and to see how, in which way we can invest additional funds in this severe economic crisis exactly what I was most talking about and this is a system of prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4727	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4728	A fellow Hrebak, of course, is a matter of prevention. And the predecessors emphasized as you do now is a matter of prevention. But what a prevention of the example while at local level we have various activities of various associations and local self-government, "Sports against alcohol and drugs" and similar activities carried out through some of the actions and activities primarily for our youngest. In the evening, however, there is a football game played by the entire families, children of five years of age and major ads are alcohol on our televisions, as well as on public television, Croatian TV. So, certain lobbies have succeeded in essentially undoing these actions, lobbys. It means either alcoholic or I don't know which manufacturer. So everything is given in favor of the manufacturer. And on public television cancel all these activities of the local community and the regional and state, because when he sees the whole game, the main motive is beer, wine or I don't know what. What are we talking about? So all of our activities, our public television cancels in one sporting event that the triba would propagate anti-alcoholal propaganda and consumption and drugs. So it's one of the key problems for manufacturers and large multi-national companies to have a major impact on the law because they poison our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4729	Thank you. The distinguished representative Dario Hrebak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4730	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. I agree with you. I also stressed that the existing system is stable, that it is good. But also that it can always be better and I also stressed during the debate that there are certain other segments that may not be directly related to the National Drug Abuse Strategy that might be an integral part, including what you yourself have said. There are a number of other areas that should be regulated and a little bit better in terms of legal procedure. Because all these little segments that might seem small in the eye, but basically they have when all these sums have a big impact to the whole system. So here I am, and I appeal to the gentlemen who presented this report today to take all these remarks that Parliamentarians have been making today. I think that today was a very constructive debate and that we can also learn some additional lessons about how, how to further strengthen this protection system and how to make the system even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4731	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4732	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Hrebak, on several occasions you mentioned local, regional administration and the will of local (regional) administration. And I assure you that you really need to change in a series of segments of legal frameworks. I'll have two specific examples as far as I can. You have to call public procurement, and let's say you have centers of former addicts who organize in the areas of local administrations of the house some, former addicts under the waistline and you can't give them certain communal jobs because they can't meet the conditions of public procurement in administrative and bureaucratic papers. Such segments should be adapted and these people should be easily assimilated into society, and in some ways create existence. Let's say at the local administration we find that problem. Next, the next problem. Here we had this one by me good Law on Legalization of Objects. They entered some kind of facility, got some kind of object that wasn't legalized. They have no other benefits, they also like all others and citizens and associations, businesses, companies, companies have to pay all those benefits and all that it takes to legalise their facility. They can't do that. They're former addicts. They're trying to assimilate into society, into the local community they're in. And the local community can't give them that because they're being threatened by the legal framework. Here's through these two examples already. So there's probably a number of other examples. I'm talking about those I know from my local community. But perhaps such societies, such a group of former addicts who want to be assimilated into societies, have the will to look at some other eyes through the sight of a number of other laws that apply to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4733	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Hrebak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4734	Well, we're a pre-determined country, and that doesn't even have to be emphasized at all, it's more clear and familiar to everyone. I was just talking, and I agree with you about this low-level approach, so county level, city level, so there's this direct approach that we can use for addicts. But what's even more important, I'm stressing again I wouldn't want to deal with that final stage when you're actually getting a ready-made addict. We need to move on to this stage, and this is exactly what you were talking about, so it doesn't happen at all. So, the prevention system. And the prevention system other than this red tape that you were talking about about the prevention system is extremely important to enable infrastructure capacities, expertise and ultimately financial capacities of local cities and counties to just implement prevention systems in an even better and much stronger way in which they will have a much greater impact to make this phenomenon stop as much as possible. Of course this is a big problem, not just in this segment. You mentioned, although it is not good to mention in this debate building permits and amending laws from that domain, it is really necessary that we focus more on the county bodies, more on the county commissions that are designed to combat drug abuse at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4735	Thank you. Now we're going to switch to individual speeches. The first will be Commissioner Ladislav Ilcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4736	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will begin my debate with a television commercial – she said in that ad by the lady until two months ago I felt terrible, stress, work, children even think that I've been taking it well and since I've been taking those pills, I feel great. I'm in a very good mood, and my roses are blooming, and so on. What kind of message are we sending in that commercial? What message do we send to our society if it is necessary for a good mood to take some pills? If you have a problem, you can’t solve some difficulty in life and you can’t be happy, but you need to take some pills. What kind of health message are we sending to our nation? What exactly is health? Health is not just the absence of disease or the absence of addiction, but one value for which we should raise people, raise primarily young people, raise them one way to say that they can be happy without taking drugs, raise one self-esteem in which they will be important enough that they will not have to prove themselves to their peers by taking drugs or be part of such a system. I will even dare say spoiledness because when we talk about health I want to talk about a holistic approach to health, meaning not only physical health but also spiritual health. Are spoiled people healthy? I'd say they're not, if they can't solve their difficulties in a normal way, if they're not willing to fight in life for some things that are good without taking some kind of means, some kind of pills to make them feel better. So, the key to our fight against addiction is this prevention. So we need to raise young people, and today what I think is the least good in this report is that part, we have a lot of programs today. It's said to be now the base of these programs is being created. So we don't even know exactly what programs we have, we don't even know how they work. I believe that all these programs came with good intentions, but you had before and programs that, say, talked about the impact of different drugs at school. Let's say they come and talk to the kids about this drug and they're spreading your pupils, and this drug is laughing at you, and then in children, it's provoking curiosity, so the kids are going to try it out. So later it turns out that such programs do not bring the desired results, that we should go formatted. So we should raise kids like I said who'll be happy enough not to even need drugs. With these programmes, we need to know that the information itself does not affect the behavior of young people and information affects education. I'll say it and all the smokers know that smoking is harmful to health and yet they still smoke. So that information itself hasn't changed their behavior. We must act educationally, and education is always for certain values, education is always a moral category. And that's the problem we encountered in health care. I'll even say that prevention of addiction is a collateral victim of sex because as long as we have a consensus and we're not afraid to go out with one moral fact that addiction is bad. So using that term that's good, which is bad, you can't say in sex today, let's say promiscuity is bad. Then they attack you, they say you're backward, etc. Health education, and this is incorrect in this report, so on page 190 of this report, says "All educational institutions are obliged to include preventive programmes in their annual plans. In addition to the prevention programmes of primary and secondary schools, they also implement a compulsory health care programme whose one module deals with the prevention of addiction." That's incorrect. Health education is not being conducted in schools today, except very, very rarely. Why? Because 10 years ago, there was an intrusion. The installation of one program for all. And I really think Mrs. Krpan is wrong to say that those who do not accept former Minister Jovanovic's programme are being held back. There are indeed many people who are very good at raising their children, whose children are not addicts, do not smoke, do not drink, achieve excellent results in schools in competitions. But they have a very bad opinion on the program. Because there's some stuff going on. We need to see that we're different. Maybe we want the same things, the same goals, maybe we do them in different ways. And that's where we need to achieve that plurality. And ever since the reverse, it's not just from Minister Jovanovic and there's been these attempts to impose one programme on everyone, and from that moment on, there's nothing in schools, there's nothing from health care. These programmes that are being implemented should be evaluated, we don't know how they're being implemented. We need national character programs that will be evaluated, which will be effective and that is what is missing. The other thing I want to look back at in this report is that repressive part. You know that since 1 January 2013, we have changed the legislation that possessing a certain amount of psychoactive substance no more than if it is considered to be a personal use that is only a violation, thus the bad side of that law is that one message has been given and it is not so terrible, so I will simplify it. On the other hand, Mr. Petkovic said well on the board yesterday when it was, therefore, a criminal offence, as it is said, so the crime then did not, the state's attorney's office did not initiate this criminal procedure because it was a minor, this, that, etc. And it's got a little bit higher, that's all I'm saying. But I'm interested in one thing. Here on the 114 page it says we have 7 grand and some violations in 2014. What I didn't get to ask yesterday on the board. Of the 7245 perpetrators, how many did they really end up in treatment. That's what I'm really interested in because I don't know why because here yesterday I learned from a center that deals with these very treatments that the number is really falling, that the number in 2015 is twice as small as 2014. So what do we come up with now? It's a violation where you need to know what's already been said, today in business people that weekend, cocaine, this thing, let's do a little yelling over the weekend, etc., it's often parents. What kind of parents then give their children a message? You know that children learn the most by imitating their parents. If that's normal, if it's not sanctioned, if someone catches you, you just pay some money and you don't even go to treatment, then what kind of message are we sending? In my opinion, these 7,000 violations are extremely small. Although there is an increase of 5700 and something since 2013 to this 7200 in 2014, it is still very little. We need to find out as soon as possible and take care of these little offenders systematically as possible. And you know those stories from the movies when they get caught, and that's what happens to us. You know, when a kid gets caught by a rich parent, and then his parents start to apologize, so he only has one joint, so just go anyway, why are you harassing my poor kid now, go ahead, catch those big drug lords who delivered that drug to my poor kid, then I say it's totally wrong. Fighting addiction won't end up moving drugs from the market. Of the 10 big drug lords, there's probably 100 others who can't wait to jump into this bigger place. And it's a story without end. What we have to work on is that these little users, each and every one of us, can't let them be smarter than us. Our police must be smarter than they are. We also have to arrest everyone, so we arrest him, start a misdemeanor procedure, charge the fine, but what's above all is to send him to treatment. And it's the only way out. It's hard work, big job, no magic wand, but it's the only way out. And above all, as I said, prevention and in this area too little work is done, and I say, it is because health education is not being conducted in schools. And I'll just say a few more words about resociation at the end. So I was surprised when I co-ordinated the production of health care, the health care care program, I didn't know until then that the abstinence crisis lasted only a week, for a maximum of 10 days and for heavy drugs. I thought it was much longer, everything else was socialization because those people who do drugs most often destroy all their relationships in the family, outside the family and there's the greatest need to help... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4737	Your exposure has caused more replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Sandra Krpan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4738	Dear fellow Ilcic, it can be said that promiscuous behavior is bad but it cannot be said that masturbation is bad and that children who thus investigate their sexuality will end up in hell. Health education is made by experts, he must be in schools because very often parents do not want to talk to their children about the subject because they are uncomfortable. What would you say to my colleague Ilcic when the students answer the question that they can't stay pregnant in an anonymous survey if they showered after sexual intercourse? I remind you that we are now in 2016. If you've recognized yourself in this, in the insolence and incarceration of these issues of sexual education, if you don't want to talk about them at school, I think they should be discussed at school and that's really your problem. All programmes implemented, medical education at school have been evaluated and followed by the National Centre for External Evaluation and the fact that some directors have refused to do so and this speaks more about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4739	Thank you very much. I would just like to remind all the debaters that the topic of implementation of the National Strategy of the Action Plan on Drugs, not masturbation, hell and all, is just who forgot, by chance. Here's a colleague to respond. Here you go, colleague Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4740	I believe that health education in schools is not necessary certainly not to invest a few years of his life in the development of a health education and training programme. These examples you're referring to, which are so radicalized and which no one else is normal, so some kind of hell, and what you said about masturbation, we can talk about but not under this topic. I'd rather not. But I'd rather not. But in any case, your approach in which you radicalize these topics means that those who don't accept the program as I said that you're putting in a fight, unnecessary arguments, instead of making it possible, as I said, to introduce two, three more programmes at national level that could achieve the result. [[Intruder President: Not a topic.]] And I remind you that our program that won the competition just out of addiction prevention got the highest score, the highest score, of the 24 programs was named the best. So, what's crucial is that I would like to reduce tension, not to go through such attacks, to see that indeed in the field of sex that we have different attitudes, but to make it legal in a plural democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4741	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4742	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we've heard it a few times today, but now colleague Krpan has replied that the health care program is not being implemented in schools, which is not true. He simply has to be in all curricula and programs. If some school doesn't run it, she's breaking the rules. So let's get rid of this dilemma. So, I'm absolutely for an argument without a lot of arguments. I will refer the parliamentary question to Minister Shostar to inform me whether the programme is being implemented, in which schools are not being implemented and what he has taken against the directors in schools where the programme is not implemented. Otherwise, the health education programme in Croatian schools is being monitored and evaluated by the National Centre for External Valuation, which will give an expert assessment to the extent that it has been successful. And the key problem and my kind of conflict with my colleague Ilcic was just about the Rodney module and sexual equality. About the other three modules, no one has ever said anything controversial, and the reason why I was against the programme offered by my colleague Ilcic is because it was precisely the National External Valuation Centre that assessed it as bad. And the results of the program did not increase student education in schools on the subject they needed. And this is the only truth about this programme that was constantly mentioned as necessary to be second to a program that was introduced by health care in Croatian schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4743	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ladislav Ilcic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4744	So first there's this second part. So the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education gave a recommendation to implement the GROZD programme in schools. So it's a fact and there's... As well as the Education and Education Agency as well as the Professional Education Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the facts. Later, when the evaluation of the experimental implementation of this programme and the Education Forum Programme was the first conclusion that Minister Primorac then stated that we did not need health care, and this was manipulation because neither the National Centre nor the Ivo Pilar Institute did the evaluation of the needs of health education, but they did the implementation of the programme. And they didn't do it according to the programme's specific outcomes, because the programme for political reasons has been put into operation for two months. The goal of this programme, as I said, is not educational in that sense of education, means that in two months, the nabiflate can be not know how much information, but that it affects the behavior of young people, raised to influence, and you know that it can't be achieved in two months. So I'm talking about documents and the context in which it was made. And what was mine, my objection to your introduction of health care was precisely that desire for one program to be imposed on everyone who went through PR-ovski, I don't say now from you or how, but all the time the kids didn't know how to wash our hands, they didn't know how to brush our teeth, they threatened. So, the type of parent you can't raise your children, which is why we here at the ministry are going to explain to you how children should be raised. It's not an approach. So we have to have motivated teachers, motivated parents, motivated children to have a successful health education. And we can't push him over our knees. And that's why I think the plurality that I'm talking about and what we've been repeating for several years of course needs to be licensed some kind of basis for the program so that things that are really scientifically incorrect are not spoken of. But after that, we must realize that it is realistic in one plural society to have different views of, especially sex, and that both can be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4745	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4746	Well, now I don't know where I'd go. At first, I would say that my replica of you is actually about what my colleague Jovanovic said. Look, you can't deal with a problem like you don't get into what kind of math program is adopted at schools and that you as parents will say it's not appropriate for my child or not, unless you get a decision on a tailored program for your child. And if we accept that we're going to have a medical education that is, it has to be introduced to schools. I would also like to answer the question that schools have decided on their own initiative that they will not implement. And if we accept that there's a "Living Healthy", "Prevention of Addiction" and "Prevention of Violent Behavior" in there, which is why we put ourselves in a position. What I don't know doesn't concern me and it won't be a problem. And I don't want my child to know. If it is known according to what is today and what are clear statistics on how few minor pregnancies there are, how many sexually transmitted diseases there are and what would be surprised among the young population because they do not even know what this is about and how it is prevented. So we can say that a particular health education is especially relevant as regards sexual education must be appropriate to a certain age of a child, but it is absolutely something that is according to today’s scientific and clear results and indicators clearly that this child should receive that information at that age. It's bad when you say I decide for myself about my child. Let us ask ourselves how much you are actually educated as a parent to know on the medical side all those clear indicators that say that at that age this child needs to get that information to prevent certain unwanted consequences that will definitely affect this entire young life from unwanted pregnancy, promiscuity behavior because he will not know what it is if we do not explain or sexually transmitted diseases to him, etc. So, we're gonna talk about bulling, we're gonna talk about drug prevention, but we're not gonna give them basic information about their sex. Of course appropriate to their age. Second of all, I'd still be on the line, I'm glad you noticed that commercial. I, as a neurologist and as a doctor, is deeply disturbed that we practically promote antidepressants and that's how we solve the problem. This does not solve the problem, the problem is solved by some other things, by helping a husband or a spouse to each other, etc., about the way a woman should be relieved or one of her spouses but not by taking treatment because that only covers the problem, we do not solve it. It's bad when it's a commercial everyone's watching on TV. In the end, even patients spoke to me and asked for therapy afterwards. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4747	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ladislav Ilcic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4748	First of all, I will not be surprised at any information about the sexual behavior of young people because I have been doing this for 20 years and I have been following the situation and I know from the field and from practice and at the level of the state, therefore complete data concerning the sexual behavior of young people who are often associated with all other risky behaviors. So the risky behaviors are often that you probably know about. So irresponsible sexual behavior with abuse of psychoactive substances, violence, etc. I also agree, of course it must be consistent with the age of the students, it is without further ado and these are all the programs that were given showed it. What I'd like to answer, information, when you say a child needs to get information, I repeat, it's not enough. So, with information, we have to give certain values, direct. When you raise your child, you give not only information but you give and you testify this is good or this is not good. And it only affects the child and affects the youth. And there are differences. So it's not the same mathematics where all parents teach the same children, and in sex they raise in different ways. When we talk about the rights of parents, they are constitutionally such that the parent is the first and main educator and that he has the right to decide on his own. Self-sufficient. You know what the word in the Constitution means and every word of the Constitution is particularly difficult. Make a decision on raising your child on your own. So, a school should help parents to raise, not to raise, regardless of their parents being competent. So that's where we should look at the school and the parents' cooperation to give it together. And that's only possible if they respect each other. So we can't do the intrusion. And there really are solutions that can satisfy everything, and that's like I said plurality in choice. To offer several programs at school and then to have parents and children, of course both the other and the third programs that will be at school, have to meet some basic conditions, but then parents can focus on someone else, in the direction in which they normally raise their child. So there is a solution. And I'm sorry that these ten years have failed just because of unnecessary arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4749	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4750	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ilcic, my replica is heading towards the relationship between prevention and repression. So I don't think I'd agree with you here. I don't think the repression will ever bring results. That's what I'm saying in the context of the 2013 legislative changes. The intensity of these changes was that those young people who were found with a drug-free joint, so they experimented with it, not to bring into the sphere of criminal application and later lasting consequences to their lives. What you need to be careful with these messages without being read out of your statement does not mean that these people will not have any sanctions. So they were transferred to the criminal sphere and Mr. Petkovic was also speaking to the board that the police in this regard achieve better results because the infringement procedure is far better carried out than the criminal procedure especially when it comes to minors. So, the police have methods, there are ways, they have information, and they can, and so ultimately and act, tell which people they are who distribute drugs, which are people who only use drugs for their own personal use. So I wouldn't, in that context, view this amendment to the law as negative, but I think it's positive that it yields results. Otherwise, in the cities and municipalities of all those who have done this, you have a council of prevention and there is a very important cooperation between the police and local self-government units where quality information is obtained, good information which then helps the police to act and to mark or detect the very people that I think you mentioned or someone before you do not know who is messing around the school, who, in particular, bring drugs to school or near school. Prevention is something we have to work on, that's where we agree. But the repression, believe me, will not give us results so that whatever you put in the Penal Code with any drastic provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4751	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4752	Both the offense and the crime is part of the repression. So in that sense, I didn't say the repression would solve either this or that. So, by transferring from criminal to criminal section one is repression. I just think that given the data we heard yesterday that when it was in a criminal offence that not everyone against everyone had not initiated a criminal procedure because they were minors etc. We have not heard of how many of those who are now affected by the offence so that they are punished or how many have ended up being treated. We'll probably agree to that, and I believe, so I don't even think that we have any different opinions in it, I think we agree on that, I hope that we agree, that it takes all those who meet the joint in their pocket not to get over it because we know that although it is clear that the use of easy drugs is not necessarily followed by the use of heavy drugs. But we need to know that from those who use heavy drugs that 99% of them started with easy drugs. So there's a connection. Which means that we need all those we find with the joint as soon as she says and your colleague to treat, and not in treatment, I don't know any punishments, these people know what they're doing. I say, strengthening confidence, talking about communication, why he experimented, etc. So now that all these people are doing the treatment, they're all going to the family therapists now because they realize that it's not enough to talk to a young person, or child, that we should talk to parents, too. So that part of the repression is necessary and can partly lead to results but we agree that prevention is crucial. Prevention is what it means to create a young person who will have enough confidence, who will be happy enough not to need drugs, who will live life with ambitions because spoiled people who are more prone to drugs, they don't have any special desires in life, they don't get anything wrong, etc., so let's go get something out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4753	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4754	Thank you very much. You spoke in your presentation and about this one ad that I saw on television, one family with two or three children, they chose, it's interesting why they chose a woman to be depressed so after an antidepressant she was in a mood, they solved all her problems and she had problems about this, and even the kids. And the children suffered. Now it's interesting why they didn't choose the whole family but just singled out the woman and the question is, where are we going? And the legalization of easy drugs that HDZ was against when it was being debated. So where are we going? Shall we tomorrow whoever's in the mood, remember I said four and five years ago here in this House and where you're at, so it was a hit like this, where you're at, where we're going, where we're going. After a few years, are we going to get into a situation where whoever's in the mood to ask each other what you're on about? So if someone's in the mood, if someone like your president said jumps like a squirrel, that means he's in a mood, then he has to be on some kind of antidepressant. I'm convinced that fellow Ostojic wasn't on antidepressants when he jumped like a squirrel. As for the legalisation of easy or decriminalisation of easy drugs, you are right, you have mentioned that even now in your opening statement "The road to hell is filled with good intentions". We almost don't know who we are in health care. We don't know anyone who's on heroin right now. It's just this joint in his pocket, so he likes it, so it's great under quotes, of course, step forward in the thing against, God forbid we lose the battle against addiction and drugs, which we're all really fighting together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4755	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ladislav Ilcic, will respond. Please, just no zoology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4756	I'd like to answer, just supplement the part that talks about that condition, let's tell the nations. So we simply need to expand the atmosphere of healthy life in Croatia. It means that really, I don't know, this healthy life in any case involves both some difficulties and ways to overcome difficulties. So if I don't know, you want to play the piano well, you need to practice five, six hours a day, if you want to finish medicine, you need to study. So difficulties are an integral part of life, and they are treated not by some kind of antidepressants but by those services so that they can accomplish something in life. And right in that part of the state of the nation's health, we need to look out for civil society associations and the media, the culture of ours, which will promote a healthy lifestyle, which will promote healthy values in society and I think there's a lot to be done here, so in some kind of atmosphere. I have to say, today's media isn't good for us. Today’s media show mostly that part of life that concerns mere pleasure and that pleasure when a man deals only with pleasure after some time, there is no such thing. And good results in life and in professional and family life have just been posted by people who have been able to sacrifice themselves for something. And I think that part of the mentality that fits or doesn't fit the drug is crucial to preventing addiction. Because like I said, we have to create a society that lives a healthy life, that lives health as a value and not as a absence of disease or addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4757	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4758	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I must begin by commending this report that is ahead of us on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse for 2014 for the simple reason that I am already taking part in this report on several occasions. And the report makes sense if, on the basis of what is discussed in the Assembly and after that, they bring some concrete things that will improve the problems in which there were words in the report. That is exactly what has happened in the past year, because when we held this debate last year, one of the key sentences that has repeatedly been related to the importance of adopting standardised guidelines for the field of treatment, to accept the concept of quality standards as criteria for funding programmes and projects implemented by associations and implementing specific education and training in line with the detected needs on the ground. So we discussed it a lot, and it just happened. We can read from this report. And what was a particular problem highlighted in the Parliament last year because at the time it was extremely acute, it was the emergence of new drugs that led to both death outcomes in Zagreb, especially in Osijek and then we discussed how to solve the problem. And we can see that thanks to the list of psychotropic drugs and plants that have a generic list, they've managed to get to that problem as well. And the Health Ministry inspection together with the Home Office successfully solved smart shops that were the biggest problem about these new drugs to call them that. When we talk about addictions, then it is very good to quote a familiar thought because through observation of that thought, right then we see how to reduce the problem of addiction. So that thought says that addiction, unfortunately, is the most common way to go without going back. That path begins with a man taking drugs, after which drugs seek drugs, and unfortunately drugs take a man. So if we go in that order, then we see exactly what are the stairs that need to be ensured so that it doesn't eventually come to drugs taking a man. So, prevention in the first place. A prevention that will prevent young people from getting in touch with drugs at all, the second that they want to try drugs at all. So, this prevention goes simultaneously with repression, especially with the discovery and disclosure of drug chains where here I think we should all congratulate everyone in the House who worked on it because since 2009 when it was seized in 2014 it was 9166. So, apparently both police and customs in this segment are doing a good job and thus reducing the availability of drugs on our market. So, of course, health education, of course, that the family, of course, has a great role to play in preventing the start and contact with drugs. Today, it has been pointed out on several occasions that it is important to send messages about how harmful drugs are. Well, I'd like to appeal to all my colleagues in the Parliament to send one good message in a way, and especially to colleagues from the Patriot coalition not to go on television shows run by a convicted drug dealer who was paying prostitutes with cocaine. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you're going on a show with such a man, I think you're sending a very bad message to Croatian society, so ignore the leaders I repeat are convicted cocaine dealers who used cocaine to pay prostitutes. I think we know who it's about. So, after prevention, the other part follows. Someone came in contact with the drugs and should try to stop him from using drugs as early as possible. And that's where we're all scheduled. That's where the family schedules, that's where the school schedules, that's where the company schedules because the age limit for drug use is getting lower. Twelve-year-olds are already in contact with drugs, and the first entry into the treatment system is on average 26 years old. So, for 10 years, it usually takes that time that neither school nor family, nor friends were either aware or not willing enough to tear that child off from addiction. We heard something today about treatment. So, of course methadone isn't ideal, but of course it's methadone and useful. So I'll quote you experts, then. The Croatian model for heroin addicts by substitution therapy is one of the best models in the world recognised by many experts, as the system makes up a network of 20 county centres, the Institute of Mental Health. The majority of the addict population is thus removed from the street, removed from the drug mileage, so there are far fewer fatal outcomes due to overdose. Of course, methadone has many flaws as well as any medicine. After all, it's just a dose that determines whether it's medicine, food or poison. A simple sugar can also be your food, it can be a cure, and it can be poison. Today, however, there are new drugs, much better quality than methadone. It is buprenorphine which is given more frequently than methadone in the Croatian Centers for Treatment of Addiction. Unlike methadone, which doesn't make a man very capable of working, all those who are on substitution therapy with buprenorphine actually function perfectly normally. And it remains that part of the people who, unfortunately, cannot get out of the way of addiction. There's that third programme, the damage reduction programme to reduce the possibility of HIV infection, hepatitis, fatal outcomes where civil society plays a great role in doing this good job. Of course, one of the key problems that we haven't solved well is the resociation of addicts after they leave the commune, upon returning to the normal environment where they need to make a maximum contribution that they try to find a job and thus prevent them from returning to the path of addiction. We talked a lot about drugs here today. What we're kind of forgetting is, unfortunately, a bigger problem than marijuana, a bigger problem than heroin, that's alcohol. So, unfortunately, many young people are too often in an alcoholic state. It's enough weekends to walk around all major cities and see young people lurking in bottles of alcohol. So, of course, that's how I say these heavy drugs are a big problem. But we mustn't ignore our domestic drugs that add up to alcohol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4759	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Sinish Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4760	I would like to thank Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I would like to get a little involved in the discussion about methadone therapy, i.e. generally related to the locality of curative medicine, i.e. the place where addiction is treated by a substitution method, means methadone and other preparations. The very addiction has been diagnosed by the international classification of disease classified as psychiatric disease F19. Therefore, those educated in the Republic of Croatia for the treatment of addiction are specialists, psychiatrists. However, during the reform that was implemented and tried during 2015, unfortunately during the pre-election period in the elective atmosphere, it was believed that sufficient therapy was being conducted today in the county public health institutions on the one hand. On the other hand, the Croatian Institute of Public Health asked the Ministry of Health for an application within the reform, i.e. within the proposal for an amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act, to return curative medicine to levels of home health. So 20 County Institute of Public Health, the Croatian Institute of Public Health did not consider it an appropriate place for curative medicine, but rather a place to focus on preventive procedures to prevent any abuse of drugs, other substances, but also on all preventive actions as such. Today we have a situation where we have specialists in school medicine, to treat 26-year-olds. We read in the report that 26-year-olds are the first contact with treatment, and they are treated by school medicine within the county institutions. And I would dedicate this exposure to the deceased child who came into possession of methadone from his addict father and unfortunately died. And so I think that psychiatrists are the ones who have to treat their own addicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4761	Thank you very much. We'd move on to the next individual announcement, and that's the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4762	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I won't be long, I'll share some of my experience in prevention as a classmate who worked 20 years with children from 5 to 8th grade. We in the class community class in the annual plan and program have these topics on a regular basis. And as much as you prepare yourself for that topic and as interesting as that lecture is to those kids don't really touch until I've done one thing, which is that I've invited a man who's been through hell of a drug, who's cured himself and who has a new meaning in life. So my proposal is for the Ministry of Science and Education to establish some coordination with therapeutic communities, communities, religious communities, so that those people who have passed the experience of the drug hell and who have a new meaning in children's lives can describe in an acceptable way what hell this drug is. The reactions of those children were ten times stronger than what I was talking about, Doctor, the police, because their own experience of this hell is best. I'd like to point out another monster that's spreading in an elementary school that this report touched the same thing, which is a bookies. The bet in elementary school has already been mass accepted and has taken great proportions. Children bet on adults, and some bookies even quietly approve of children's betting. And another example of prevention and a proposal for prevention. And that's already done by a mathematician named Tony Millun, who in a mathematical way explains to children how evil the bookie is and what a robbery it is. So here we at MOST have a proposal that math students engage in workshops with primary school children where they will in a mathematical way explain to them what is actually a bookie evil and robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4763	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Maria Klobučić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4764	I thank Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Petkovic, Mr. Bekavac. I would say something as a member of the Committee on Science and Culture, also for young people and family and sports. So we will not say anything new if we say that the most important measure is education and prevention, and surely in this respect we are taking all possible measures at different levels and age groups. However, particular attention should be paid to and preventive action when it comes to drug addiction. According to the Government of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse 2014 we can see that there is a continuing trend in the use of heroin, while last year, as many as 116 new drugs have been discovered through the national early warning system in the EU area, which are very easily available and sold in the so-called ‘EU’. Smart and tobacco shops. The fact is that there is no more opiate heroin addiction as ruled by Europe in the '80s and Croatians in the 1990s. The structure of users and offers has changed. Croatia shares trends across Europe in which these new substances have been most intrigued and confused by police, legislators and doctors for the past 5 years. These substances are very little known, and they are very available, so it is necessary to act very carefully and effectively. When we talk about prevention in the report, the focus has been on building a programme base, education for preventative project providers and market surveillance measures. In itself, these moves are positive but, in line with the dynamic changes, there is also a need for dynamic and innovative preventive action. According to Mr. Petkovic, a quality analysis of waste water is possible, especially in Zagreb, on the basis of which critical events and time intervals can be identified and shall act accordingly in the coming periods. The government's report notes that most often there are very potent and toxic compounds that cause a number of health problems and cause an increasing number of acute and fatal intoxications across the EU. In December 2014, a new list of drugs, psychotropics and drugs can be obtained from. This puts entire groups of previously legally available psychoactive compounds under Croatian legislation. This list should be updated and acted on a regular basis in accordance with the changes. The whole of Europe has seen an increase in the use of synthetic cannabinoids similar to marijuana. They're synthesized in illegal laboratories, cheaper and more accessible than marijuana, which is hard to grow illegally. In addition to smart shops, they are sold by groups of peers and small dealers that police are hard to track. New drugs are an increasing threat in the EU, and our market has been flooded for the last 5.6 years. In 2012, 73 new compounds that mimic the effects of classical drugs were discovered in the EU, with 82, 2014 being found. The most common users are young people who are prone to experiment and should be protected. Thus, the age group is from 14 to 21 years of age in which rebellion occurs, conflict with the authorities of the most sensitive years in growing up and finding its own identity and integration into society. It is very important in primary and secondary schools to organise education on the harmful influence and potential dangers of the so-called “. ” new drugs to act preventively. All educational institutions in the annual plan and programme and curricula of the school have integrated preventive programmes but should be constantly updated according to the dynamic changes that occur in this area. According to a Eurobarometer survey among young people aged 18-30 after the use of new drugs, Croatia is in the middle, not deviations from averages such as Poland or Ireland that were flooded by smart shops 3 to 4 years ago. The problem is also how to control the line is sold because everything that is new in European markets and very quickly becomes available with us. In the Republic of Croatia, 5 new psychoactive substances were seized in 2012. In 2013, 12 more new drugs were identified, in 2014. 18. From these figures, we see an upward trend that will, in all likelihood, continue to grow. So-called new drugs mimic the effects of existing drugs but are generally stronger and more dangerous because you can't be sure in the chemical structure because you never know what the accompanying substances contain or which person will react to these substances. Since opiate addiction has increased over the last few years in stagnation or decline and the consumption of marijuana and new drugs and various addictive behaviours such as gambling, games and the like, new forms of treatment for these addicts need to be developed. In addition to this, a coherent approach to the problem of addiction should be considered. Each addiction is equally difficult and valuable attention and acts destructively on a person who is subject to it as well as to its environment. Under a coherent approach, it involves a common approach to combating different types of addiction. Namely, drugs are illegal and the people who consume them know they can be punished. In any way, a person involved in drug trafficking from supply and distribution, to consumption, unequivocally violates the law. However, alcohol addiction is also a serious problem and addicts come to their drinking agent legally as much as we are called on to a provision, and in fact, by banning the sale of alcoholic beverages to people under the age of 18. In addition to that education and prevention, it is necessary to include a repressive apparatus in terms of enhanced supervision of stays under 16 years of age without entourage in the night. Croatia is at an infamous world summit by the number of alcohol addicts. They've been registered....../Intruder
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4765	Please, colleagues and colleagues allow your colleague to say what he wants to say. Please, a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4766	So, Croatia is at an infamous world summit by the number of people registered as alcohol addicts, there are about 200 thousand. However, research shows that 3 unregistered are coming to each registered person, which significantly increases this figure. We can ask a rhetorical question about alcohol and later addictions that can appear either on drugs, on gambling or on something else. It should be noted that gambling addiction is perhaps the most accessible. The bookies and other types of gambling are very dangerously covered addiction. The influence of alcohol and drugs is very visible on people who have such addiction while gambling addiction is not so easy to identify. The process of reintegration in society and maintaining abstinence is also important, to maintain what has been achieved with severe suffering often and more difficult than it has been achieved. All the overall assessment of the National Strategy implementation report and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014 is positive but the most important thing is to constantly monitor changes and act in innovative methods against drug addiction and other addictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4767	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is the distinguished representative of Maria Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4768	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. So the 2014 report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia, I believe that it is a very important document and shows in detail the state of drug abuse in our country. It is therefore necessary to commend all those involved in the development of such a report as an extremely important document and a basis for a more effective solution to this global problem. What concerns us is the fact that on a global scale there is a change in the trend of drug abuse. There are fewer opiate addicts and more and more people who consume so-called. designer drugs at affordable prices. There is a significant increase in the emergence of new drugs and dangerous substances that, according to some indicators, are far more dangerous than heroin itself and there are new addictions resulting from the technical and technological achievements of modern society than the Internet, mobiles, cubes, gambling and the oldest and most widespread means of alcohol addiction, or as the people say domestic or folk drugs, which unfortunately use an increasing number of young people. The strategy is focused on drugs but I believe that it is necessary to mention all the addictions because they are increasingly taking hold and these kinds of addictions I consider are not yet given sufficient attention. The problem of drug abuse is a global phenomenon, and as much as human societies are struggling with all available means to reduce it to the least possible extent, one part is being advocated, but unfortunately, it manages to produce and distribute all kinds of drugs on the world market because they reach enormous profit levels and therefore the fight for drug control and abuse is difficult and long-term. Drug trafficking is certainly one of the most productive forms of organised crime in both the world and the whole of Europe, of course with us. According to the revenues achieved, it is literally a global industry that can compete with the most significant industries. Of course, a large percentage of the reasons for resorting, drug consumption, and other addictions must be viewed primarily from social points of view. But what they're going to say is when it comes to independent, stable, rich countries and societies that have a far greater problem of drug addiction among younger people, but also among older people. But we don't need to manipulate that fact for any purpose, we simply have to admit it and look for a way out of this situation because the crisis is our common cause. And everything that comes out of it should, of course, be dealt with together. We need to mobilise all the structures of society in order to strengthen preventive programmes, especially the risky behaviour of young people from kindergarten and beyond. In order to successfully introduce measures to reduce the supply, the cooperation of different entities of the company must primarily be carried out by state authorities. The Croatian example includes the Ministry of Interior, Justice, Health, Economy, Finance and Customs Administration. The implementation of the national drug control policy requires coordination of all bodies involved in the fight against addiction, and what I keep very important is the involvement of local units, local self-government and religious communities and civil initiatives, as well as NGOs. On the basis of the reports, and knowledge from the field in the Republic of Croatia, the anti-drug abuse system is organised at an enviable level and in many segments better than in the rest of Europe. There is also a developed and available hospitally non-patient treatment method, and the treatment communities of different profiles of preventive activity in the school system are well designed. We have many examples in Croatia, but now there is no obvious time to mention them all and complement them by NGOs. The process of resociating rehabilitated addicts has been organised by the government's Office's project to combat drug abuse and competent ministries. I have to mention a good example from the county I come from. Therefore, in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, access is organised to the prevention of drug abuse and the demand for illegal substances is systematically reduced. I have to say, in some ways, that's what I'm calling him even though he's not a repressive machine, and it's official agents of the MUP who are very quick to handle drug abuse-related crime detection and repression. Thus, in the area of the county it has been significantly reduced, the supply of heroin and cocaine has almost been eradicated, and the supply of marijuana, ecstasy and other drugs has been significantly reduced. And to put it short, I can see the attention's down. What I see as a problem is the inertness of the system in the emergence of new kinds of addictions although the problem of gambling and betting has been growing progressively since the wartime. We still don't have an adequate and quality covered area. We are now also facing a problem of internet dependence, social networks, which are games that we are not prepared to do, and we have no professional capacity to do so. I commend the work and efforts of all participants in the implementation of the National Strategy and of course I will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-11-0.u4769	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. The promoter doesn't have anything either. So we'll vote here a little later. We will now have a report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. A year.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with a large majority of 121 votes for, 1 abstention, the conclusion is that it was proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy.
