ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u3	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, please take a 10 minute break on behalf of the club HNS and HSU on the topic of interregne. In fact, on October 15th, the law that we voted on Friday to stop certain ministries from working, the new one was appointed, so we would like to refer to the topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u4	Thank you. ... There is no possibility of replication but there may be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u5	No, no, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u6	Excuse me, Representative Sincic. First responder, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u7	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I am looking for a break in the minimum length of business to draw attention to the illegal lawsuit of the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament for the failures of one of the club representatives to protect the dignity of state officials working in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u8	Here you go, Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u9	President of the Croatian Parliament I request a break on behalf of the Live Wall Club to discuss the escalation of the Raiffeisen cooperative problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u10	Can you repeat that, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u11	To talk about the problem of escalating Raiffeisen cooperative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u12	Here you go. ... What I must warn Mr. Bauk in Article 249 cannot be granted a break for reasons relating to the work of the working bodies of the Assembly, so here I would ask you to reconsider. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So it's a professional service. I appreciate the break from representative Anka Mrak-Taritash and representative Sincic. We'll get back to you later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u13	I would ask you to reconsider the application of Article 249 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I did not ask for a break for the work of the working bodies and for the work of the professional service, but for the work of politicians who have accused the professional service for their mistakes, and yet you will admit something different from what is written in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u14	Then I appreciate it. So I also accept the resignation of representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš and representative of Bauk and representative of Sinčić and agent Nikola Grumoja. Thank you. Ten-minute stop for each of the MPs. It's 11:00. 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] I'd like to ask before starting with the explanations of the break taken by the respected MPs to provide counsel for persons with disabilities appointments. So, we'd come by and swear our defense attorney's oaths for people with disabilities that we named yesterday. Do you agree? Thank you. After reading the text, the Ombudsman pronounces the word ‘I swear’. The text of the oath reads: “I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will carry out my duty in a fair, honorable, conscientious and impartial manner in the best interests of persons with disabilities.”
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u16	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u17	Congratulations to the D.A. Congratulations to the Advocate General for the persons with disabilities on their sworn oath. [[Applause.]] I want this duty to be performed honorably, responsibly and successfully as it has been. Thank you. We're moving on to further agenda. I'd like to ask honorary representative Anku, Mr. Tarritash for his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS and HSU club, we had a need to talk about one topic, this topic could have the working title "Where this ship sails". What exactly is this about? In this distinguished House on Friday, we had a set of laws that spoke about the formation of new ministries or government, and all those we discussed absolutely said that we had no problem, of course, of those who were ruling to set up the ministry and government properly. However, there was one problem, whether by chance or otherwise we would like to point out and say the following. On October 14th, in "The People's Newspapers" which have done their job very quickly this time, and an effective law has been published that has entered into force on the 15th of October. In other words, with 15 October, according to the transitional and final provisions and Article 39, the work of six ministries has ceased, and has begun with the work of the new five ministries. So,... the removal of six ministries at this time is absolutely one handsome reform, is there no such six ministries for the simple reason why very prosaic things happen that are next. There are no ministry memos anymore, there are no signed charts anymore, so there is no such thing as October 15th. Ministers appointed ministers in this experimental government were ministers, but they no longer have the right to sign. For example, Minister Dobrović, related to the Ministry of Environment and Nature, who became the Ministry of Environmental and Energy, is no longer on the signed chart, has no right to sign, cannot sign various solutions, opinions and everything else. In other words, since Monday 6 ministries cannot issue solutions, approvals, opinions. But equally in those six ministries, there are no sign of certain things that normally go normally and according to the Law of Transfers and Handovers, the minister could still sign the salaries and everything else. I'm wondering who's going to sign those six pay ministries for employees who worked Monday, Tuesday, I guess we'll have a government tomorrow, so from Thursday they can. You know, people aren't potatoes. Potatoes very simply transfer from one basket to another basket. People in the ministries are mostly responsible, consciously doing their job and should receive a certain fee for that. Apparently, the new ministers will sign something retroactive. So really this discussion is on the subject of where this ship is sailing. For the simple reason, if we remember correctly when there was this experiment that we had with Mr. Oreshkovic, we warned from this pay phone and I personally spoke when something bad went wrong, it could be difficult and it could end well. So take care, see what it's about. It was no problem that this law, that you timed it, and that it went into effect on, say, October 19th and there would be no mess. In a desire for speed, a man often makes a mistake. I hope that such mistakes will not be in the future, and I hope that you will find a solution to how to get out of this one. So what's not good, it's not good that there's no pilot on the plane, you know, then the plane is going in a direction that's very unknown and at this point there's really no pilot on the plane. 6 ministries are gone, no new ones are not, they have become formal laws, but they do not have leaders. And I'm using this pay phone, so let's really take care of Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday which is signed and how it's signed that there wouldn't be any trouble for the whole government, for the budget, and of course for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u19	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. I call upon the representative of the SDP club Arsen Bauk to give an opening for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u20	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The second working day of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament was scheduled to begin the session of the Committee on Legislatives at 8.30. Neither the first nor the last time the proposings came to the session, it happened to us when we were in the government, very rarely but it happened, not exactly the first day. And if that were the rest of it, everything would be fine, the Committee's session would be held another day, those who didn't come would get a little political criticism, and that would probably take place within a day, an hour, forget it, and the session would be held. However, yesterday we witnessed an attempt to transfer political officials to civil servants. It is already something that should not be happening in the Croatian Parliament and therefore it is good at the very beginning of this calls for a clear line to be drawn there. So politicians are responsible and very rarely, and experience speaks almost never of civil servants. Why am I saying that? So we have various means of public information, I have downloaded several portals, justifications from the promoter from the Most why they didn't come. "The Voice of Slavonia" MOST no one called for a session of the Committee. "Free Dalmatia" Grmoja, if we had been invited, of course we would have come. The "evening List" of Grmoya, if we knew of course we would have come, there was an error in the administration. After that, another service of the Croatian Parliament was included, the one for public relations. The Assembly, MOST's proposings did not receive calls for a session in due time. Directly.hr and Parliament are in the defense of MOST, they did not come because they did not receive calls at the session in due time. And once again, the Parliament's "Evening List" came up with an explanation as to why MOSTs did not come to the Committee's meeting. In short, it is said that no call has come. I, of course, asked my colleagues from the Committee on Legislatives whether they received the invitation and on 14 October 2016, at 22.58, an e-mail with the invitation of a respected member and members of the Committee on Legislatives was sent to you for the 2nd session of the Committee to be held on Monday 17 October at 8.30 in the hall "Stjepan Radic", a nice greeting in the signing of the administrative secretary, we will not say the name. And of course it's very simple to look at whom it's directed. He was directed to all members of the board and the promoter of the Club of Representatives MOST Independent Lists, address clubmost@sabor.hr According to this, colleagues and colleagues. You shouldn't have, you should have just admitted the mistake. You did not need the professional service of the Legislative Committee and then, after that, to use the expert public relations service in such a way as to wash away the blame. It was not necessary or correct, it is not a good start of work of the Croatian Parliament. And that's why I'm calling you to admit a mistake. You don't have to pour your ashes, I am a Dalmatian, but I'm not yelling. So don't do this anymore, take this to yourself as a little reminder, and here I am, since I'm the president of one of the committees on whose trust I thank you, I'm willing to personally bring a committee invitation to your club to avoid having not received the invitation. Because here is why e-mail is the transmission of text messages via communication networks most often on the Internet. Therefore, you have been invited, no further justification for the administrative service of the Croatian Parliament. And as for your guarantees so far, we've adopted one and one guarantee doesn't make spring and don't improvise so much more. When you ask to work on Mondays, when you insist on this pace, it was very clear that as proposings you must come to the committee session. Don't transfer your mistake to the civil servants. They really didn't do anything this time. Mr. President, I thank you for correct interpretation of Article 249 b of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and for not calling on the point of the same article, and I am not sure whether you granted Mr. Grumoja a break because you only approved for two clubs, then I explained, and he said he was looking for the same reason I asked but did not explain afterwards. So you're looking for item b, you might not need a break. However, do not call on civil servants again. Therefore, colleagues and fellow officials are not to blame this time and we will take this as a first attempt for you, and the first kittens are thrown into the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u21	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. I'll make my comment after all the MPs give their word. I'm calling Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u22	Thank you, fellow President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues here I called this break as I said to warn about the escalation of the Raiffeisen cooperative's problem. Why? Tomorrow, at 10:00 p.m. on Holy Spirit 8, so tomorrow October 19th, the Dukic family, eight members of the Croatian defender's family, is scheduled. It's not the first such mirage. I remember trying out I think it was January 2015, so now it's going to be almost 2 years, 2 years it's delayed. In those two years, there was enough space for all of us to solve something with our work that this family and not only that but also tens of thousands of others who are in this problem do not suffer. There have been some attempts, but as we can see, it has not been very helpful for them, nor is this executive law, which prepares power, will unfortunately not help them. As far as Raiffeisen Co-operation is concerned, this topic is well known in this House, it has been spoken of several times. It's a corrupt octopus that's brought together money smugglers across the border, public notebooks, and unfortunately, in a number of cases, lawyers in connection with judges who award real estate for cheap money. And where this eight-member family will not know tomorrow. Last time the executive just didn't show up. Thanks to the activists, he didn't have the guts to show up. What we must definitely do is change the law first. The Consumer Credit Act was amended last year when a provision on francs was passed, so this on Raiffeisen cooperatives was also adopted. But where was the problem? The thing about the franc was built retroactively but for cooperatives it wasn't built retroactively. So it's worth since 2015. Now I'm going to tell you that almost all operations with Raiffeisen cooperatives ended up out there in 2010. So that law helps anyone or almost no one. I asked last year as part of the government's parliamentary issue that should have been specifically brought to the Croatian People's Bank to give me a list of how many of these loans were made in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 etc. Every year with as much detail as possible. How many of them were there, which were interest rates, all the conditions of that lending. Why? Because from the beginning there has been a story that in Croatia these cooperatives work legally, that they have a license. When they found out they didn't, then they started talking about not being needed. And then word got out that it was a foreign borrowing. Okay, if borrowing is in Croatia, you have to be registered, you're not registered. And if borrowing is abroad, then by law every transfer of money, transaction, credit, foreign borrowing must be kept by the CNB register. And I asked the nice governor if it's a foreign debt show me the register when, who, where did he charge himself? There's no answer. Why? Because it wasn't simply recorded because money was transferred across the border in bags. And the governor who should have looked out for it came here and washed himself simply by mantra it's borrowing abroad, it's borrowing abroad, it's borrowing abroad. And that's what we stopped at. I therefore call on this Parliament to amend the Consumer Credit Act as soon as possible, that it applies retroactively to all these people and, if necessary, a number of other laws. And why did people even come to the position they came to? The thing is very simple, someone dies to you, you're born to have a child you need to expand I don't know the house, it's often not big loans, it's often not big loans and people were forced to take them because they're victims of the system. No domestic money market is arranged, interest rates are interest rates, conditions often do not exist. Especially at the time, those black times in 2001 until the crisis when interest was also conditions of lending were far more difficult. Living morale, money needed people, through banks they couldn't get it, Croatian banks were almost gone, they could either move out or go this way. So I don't blame them, I don't blame a lot of them, they're victims of the system, they're victims of the National Bank, and once again I call on this Parliament no matter how this ends tomorrow to solve these people's problem. Ten years of suffering is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u23	I thank Representative Sincic. And I call on Representative Grumo on behalf of the representatives of the club of the Independent Lists to give their explanation for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u24	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues of MPs and MPs, so here I will immediately confess to my colleague, Bauku, that he is a master of these parliamentary machinations, and he is very happy, but Croatian citizens have nothing to do with it. If he is, if he wants us to apologize so much here, we'll apologize. I won't be long here with this exhibit of mine. The fact is that the club MOST received a call and that a member of the board, Ivan Kovacic, received a call and came to the committee. As promoters, we have not received a call, and it is not true that we have transferred the blame to the assembly service. Have in our inexperience, and perhaps we as advocates should have wondered if it was the Legislative Committee that we should be as proposing on that committee and what the laws on that committee are. I admit it as our mistake. But the fact is, we didn't get a call as proposing. I find it sad to say that here is the opposition, and today from this morning on the Legislative Committee, where we are talking about the Executive Law, where we need to protect the meaning of our citizens who are being threatened by the only real estate. And it is also saddened that we are wasting time on such machinations to get the right things on the agenda, such as this amendment to the HRT Act, where we are going to build up the media empires and finally put that money back in the pockets of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u25	I'd like to thank my representative, Grumoja. What I would ask if all other MPs were to be heard calmly, I would like to be correct enough for those who expose themselves and respect peace in the assembly. One other thing I must point out, I am sorry that there is only one agent named Bauk but I hope he hears no matter where he is, and I would ask everyone else, that it would not be that I abolished the democratic right and that you can freely go out and say behind the pay phone all you need is a reason why I allowed, even though according to the Rules of Procedure in Article 249, which Mr. Bauk mentioned all that MPs say outside the bench is not something you can ask for a break. I let it pass, I would pray that we really adhere to the Rules of Procedure and that the breaks and breaks at the end when they are spoken of, which is why we really use the pause for what it is intended for. Thank you. We'll proceed with the session's agenda. - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on HRT, first reading, Bill No. 10 The applicant shall be the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the material to the benches. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received a report, some prior to the beginning of the session, now during the session the second part made by the Information Committee. Does the representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. I'm calling on Representative Mira Bulj to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u839	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we would like to remove the illogicality and irrationality of our business. something that is on the burden of our citizens' examples just to point out at the beginning of the very reason that in Croatia we have 180 thousand credits for HRT on average about 300 kunas, which turns out to be 54 million kunas leaving the pockets of our citizens in a law firm, in public record houses that create their empires on the burden of our citizens. And do you know what a total of 54 million kuna means in the pockets of our citizens who would immediately increase this and spend it? The law on HRT... as a public service the activity of the function of the content of public roles and the financing of control and mode management. [[You don't understand.]] The law lays down the amount of monthly fees paid to HRT as a type of income of HRT. Given the difficult social situation of a large number of citizens and the difficult conditions of business of companies and institutions and other legal persons, especially in the light of the extremely large number of blocked citizens, it has been estimated that all public authorities should contribute to the relief of the situation and thus to HRT as a public service. The socially insensitive business of HRT as a public service also indicates the procedure for forced payment of a monthly fee which has not been specifically prescribed by the HRT Act to date, but has been carried out and implemented through the Institute of Conduct on the basis of a credible instrument governed by the Implementing Law. In such a procedure, payment bonds of monthly fees are burdened with payment of HRT's legal services and by payment of public notebooks leading that type of executive procedures. It is clear that because of the unified mass procedure and the existence of adapted computer programmes, there was no real need to hire lawyers and pay their professional services, VAT on these services and other material costs. All these costs ultimately fell on the burden of payment by the obligors of the monthly fee and the HRT has sufficient capacities and human resources and applications to take over the burden of such unified mass treatment. Here I will mention once again that it is a total of 180 thousand executions in the Republic of Croatia according to the Croatian National Court's monthly fee. And in these procedures, it's an average of about 300 kn. So we've got 54 million kunas with some of the 200 kn commissions known to go up to 2000 kn or even up to 4000, 5000 kn and we know what it brings to a family with 2000, 3000 kn or a pensioner or other socially endangered families who literally can't function because of these blockades and other bills that have to pay other obligations for other institutions and other services. Therefore, it is estimated that, after the entry into force of a forced charge, the monthly fee should be explicitly regulated by HRT law, and this is not only the way in which the debtor will not be released from the obligation to bear the legal costs but also the public record costs which were otherwise justified in the current system of charges. In this way, the future process of forced payment of the monthly fee will carry out itself by sending two written notices and by issuing the payment order as an institute for the payment of the monthly fees of HRT. in such a way, a lawyer and a public record will be avoided, and in the event that no legal objection is brought against that order, which is challenged by this order of payment of the HRT Act, gives the status of an executive document. With such an executive correction, HRT will be able to seek enforcement in the usual manner prescribed by the Implementing Law. In the event of a power of complaint, HRT will be authorised to file an action against the court, in which the relevant provisions on the limitation of HRT will encourage any action to be initiated as soon as possible in order to avoid the accumulation of tight interest. It is understood that HRT will be entitled to professional legal services in regular court proceedings. Obligations to pay the monthly fee will continue to shoot at the timely payment of their legal obligations by prescribing a flat-rate additional fee of 100 kuna which HRT will have the right to charge in the event of the issue of a payment order. But this is far less of the current costs of lawyers and public notebooks. Therefore, the work of these additional fees will be able to count on certain increases in revenue compared to the current situation, while at the same time the obligation to pay monthly fees will be less than the current cumulative legal costs and costs of public notebooks. Finally, as the monthly tax is public revenue, an explicit ban on the concession of those revenues to third parties is laid down. Various information has also appeared that this is an anti-constitutional bill, amendments and additions. HRT is a public institution and giving authority to a public institution to charge its debt is not anti-constitutional. Thus, HRT is not in a more favourable position than other creditors because HRT is the only believer who collects the radio – TV tax. Also, the debtor is not allowed to access a court or an impartial body because the debtor can object to a payment order after which the matter goes to court in a lawsuit. There are a number of state bodies that also decide on their own claims. So, when police, as a state body, and not a public institution as a HRT, issue a mandatory criminal order, only brings an executive order, if the debtor does not pay the defendant. That's what the Constitutional Court decided and said it wasn't against the constitution. In view of the fees of the FINA, they can be settled by the Implementing Law, they cannot be resolved by the Implementing Law, but it is a matter that regulates other internal regulations under which this House will have to deal with the same thing as soon as possible. As far as the objection is concerned, we can see that they've shown up, whether HRT has enough people to do that at all. HRT has three thousand people, employed somewhere around three thousand people, of which it certainly has a large number of lawyers and certainly HRT will have the appropriate time to comply around this law. And... ten years ago they solved without a lot of computers for four thousand tasks, and now HRT has three thousand employees and modern computer systems, we come to the conclusion that thirty people work around 180 times a year without a problem. So, by redistributing 1% of HRT employees, everything is solved within HRT, which is not a burden on the Croatian budget. Even if a hundred kuna fee is needed for a payment order amounting to 18 kuna per year, all costs and new employees can be paid without a problem, and everything will still be in favour of the citizens and without damage to HRT. Namely, to charge only 20% of that fee is enough for 30 people on HRT to do these jobs. You have this bill of law in your materials, so I'll only explain the short articles. This article provides for a new way of forcing fees to be paid on a monthly fee. HRT in this way is now gradually and independently by one act against the individual obligor, the procedure is carried out through the issue of a payment order as an institute... the prescribed Law on HRT which must precede two written notices. In particular, the content of the second warning was prescribed so that the defaults would be kept in advance informed... of the consequences of the non-payment. There is also an additional flat tax of 100 kuna. In particular, the content of the payment order is prescribed in order for the payment order to achieve the intended function of the executive document and for the compulsory to be informed of the possibility of the direct implementation of the performance. A payment order procedure has been prescribed for the obligor of a monthly fee which is, to a certain extent, identical to the delivery of the Implementing Regulation as a procedural regulation which has dealt with the issue in a quality manner. It is prescribed that a payment order against which no timely objection has been lodged, an executive document on the basis of which regular enforcement proceedings can be initiated before the court or the FINA, provided that an enforcement certificate is first placed on that payment order. In the event of an objection, it is prescribed that HRT is authorised to file an action before the court and that the mandatory contributions to the action are mandatory. The matter of limitations in the case of a lawsuit has been resolved. It is explicitly prohibited to transfer the demand for monthly fees and the nullity of any legal transaction undertaken in order to transfer them. It shall also be prohibited to engage in charge for the purpose of representation in the procedure of payment of the monthly fee of lawyers or other legal or natural persons, except in the case of representation before the court. In accordance with Article 2(2) of this Article, the obligation of Croatia to coordinate its work, business, general acts and computer programmes, the processing of binding data and monthly fees with the provisions of this Act is laid down in this Article. The transitional payment regime for monthly fees has also been arranged in such a way as to charge the claims, monthly fees due until the date of entry into force of this law by the rights applicable until the entry into force of this law. Article 3 provides that the final provision provides for the entry into force of this Act by leaving sufficient time for the addressees of the law. HRT, bonds, public notebooks, lawyers to adapt to a new arrangement. Once again, I spoke about this in the government at the first session of the previous Assembly meeting that in Croatia we have 300,000 performers and certainly the HTV fee, which has largely contributed to people being completed and blocked. This is just an example of how we can follow other things to harm, not to the harm of our fellow citizens while some create their own empires lawyers and others who are able to take money out of the poor pockets of our fellow citizens in this way. Therefore, I call upon you all MPs, as it is in the first reading to be involved in the debate in the interest of solving this problem, to make their proposals to protect our citizens and not to favour the rich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u840	I'd like to thank Representative Mir Bull. I'd move on to replicas. The first representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u841	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to point to a shocking thought. He is trying to create an illusion that now the main problem in meaning to Hanžekovic, of course he is the problem but he is only the consequence rather than the cause. The real cause is next. In December of the blocked people, in 2010, there were 25 thousand and 600 natural persons. At the end of 2011, the number of blocked rose to an incredible 219 thousand. What's he gonna say? In a year, the number of blocked has increased almost 10 times. For such chaos, it means for this epidemic and the flood of executions it is evident that the 2011 executive law that the Government made for me from the left, means HDZ. So I suggest, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, if you want to solve the problem of mass blockades and executions, solve the cause. If it's clear what caused this epidemic, why don't we put the executive law back in the state in which it was in 2010. And if we're going to partially solve every company we can deal with by the end of the term of office because it has countless meanings for utility companies in Croatia and so I don't go further than those bodies have essentially public powers. So I suggest to my colleagues at MOST if they have the courage to deal with the cause and not just with the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u842	Thank you, Agent Pernar. The answer to the line Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u843	I would like to agree with you that on the rise of the performance, surely one wheel is also a CROAT because surely if the debt of 240 kuna comes to 5000 kuna, 4 certainly blocks the person who has a pension of 1500, 2000 or 3000 or numerous families. And certainly that's the consequence that I can't pay, causing me not to be able to pay other bills. Of course, all the legal regulations and behavior that were passed during the preceding periods have led to this. And, of course, we all have to insist that these laws work, that we build laws towards citizens, not certain lobbys. And that's what we should insist on, because this is the House of People, to represent citizens, not certain lobbys to the harm of citizens. Only if it is done as was done in previous years at the expense of citizens will there certainly be still 300 thousand and blocked and unemployed. For this reason, we should be unique and all together to help solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u844	Thank you, Agent Mir Bull. The next person to report for the replica is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bully, I agree with the intensity of the law. So the intensity is definitely good. However, what is in the eyes is what my colleague Pernar was talking about, and this is that this law will make HRT the only institution that is excluded from the Executive Act or which implements in a special way. And here we have Croatian waters, we have a whole series of other institutions of state that continue to comply with the old law and you obviously don't mind. But I'd like to ask you a few more questions, dear colleague. So this law only solves the performances. One of the so-called 7 guarantees or as many guarantees as there are, I don't know, MOST was also a reduction in HRT subscription. From this law or the suggestions that you have made so far, there is no word. So please tell us and the Croatian public whether it was a lie that was used in pre-election times, whether you gave it up or what would happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u846	Thank you to Representative Hajdukovic. Replicate reply by Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u847	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, dear colleague, for the constructive discussion that you have contributed to the construction of the solution to the problem of 180 thousand ovaries. Indeed, a reduction in the TV fee is necessary, but in order to reduce the TV fee, it is necessary to appoint a responsible person because we know that HRT is not in the situation now either. You know, a full-time hodogram of procedures and reductions and the rationalization of HTV because we know there are 3,000 people out there, some at least have a huge salary while certain individuals have a small salary. Of course it should be controlled because we are responsible that we wouldn't happen to be fired by people with 2,3 thousand kuna and some individuals who have 10 times the pay than the average salary of the Republic of Croatia to stay on the same and not suffer the whole production. TV tax, not only for HTV but also for others, other media associations, houses and so on at local levels are co-financed. And of course you need to cut the TV fee but you need a responsible person to do a hodogram i.e. a time plan when and what. And the sooner the better. Thank you very much. We haven't given it up, nor will we give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u848	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next person to report for the replica is representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u849	I told you, and I appreciate the committee, I would say the noble intention of this law, but it would not be good if it remained in the air to hang a whole series of dilemmas, so I could say false promises. You yourself said that over 300 thousand people were blocked by accounts in this country. You are aproximating on the basis of 180 thousand performances that are being instructed annually in the procedure due to a RTV fee somewhere that half of them ended up in a blockade. So then you also do an approximation to make out of 180 grand on an average of 300 kuna to make it 54 million. It's all just divination, unfortunately. We don't even know in the structure of blocked what's causing the blockade. Let's not run away from the fact that some of them are blocked because they're involved in costs they couldn't bear. There's everything between them and everything. This law, unfortunately, and this should be made clear and loud, will not solve any of the only problems of blocked persons so far. None of these 300 and some thousand of our citizens whose accounts are blocked will be unblocked by this law. It's just trying to make sure that there aren't any new blockades just because of the debt to the tv tax. Therefore, those who listen to us must know that this MOST proposal will not solve the existing problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u850	Thank you, Agent Richembergh. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u851	Thank you very much. That's what you said, too, on the board. The fact that I didn't say at any point that it would solve the problem. TV's fee can be the cause of someone at one point that because of the 4 thousand kuna performance due to 400 kuna debt, it becomes blocked at that time and that it is all income and that this month simply cannot exist which causes non-payment and other utility accounts. And then it could be the cause, I didn't say it would solve anyone, but it could be the reason someone got into trouble because of the £400 banals, and 200 kuna to be 4 thousand kuna. And because of that, it causes a number of non-payments. What you said of 180 thousand times 300 kuna, that on average 300 kuna is more the executive procedure of what lawyers and public notebooks do, i.e. With the law so far and the change remains 54 million kunas in the pockets of our citizens, and our citizens will spend it, increase consumption. It's a fact and it's true. And that 54 million so far have gone into the pockets of those who are bored... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u852	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next person to report for the replica is representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u853	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bully, as my colleagues have said before, this bill will not solve anything. Much more quality would have been if you'd suggested a reduction in the TV subscription as promised. Because if 15 kuna was a smaller RTV subscription practically these 200 or 300 kunas would in one year have fewer citizens and many of them would not come into a position to be completed. On the other hand, you neglected that citizens' debts towards local self-government units amount to 5 billion kuna a year, that according to HEP, where you were very active, did you go to HEP and ask the director of HEP there who he works with, who runs it for him? So you've already been able to do your job since HEP was in charge and will remain in MOST's command to see how the problem can be solved, or to help people. So I'm the same for systemically solving problems, for local self-government units to see these 5 billion kunas see in what ways or by some actions such as forgiveness to citizens as the previous government did. So these are quality measures, which is why Croatia was recognized in a world where tens of thousands of people submitted their request and their small debts were forgiven. This is what I'd say only the possibility that debts don't increase and lawyers don't make a living on it. Which is okay. Which is why someone would get rich in people's accidents, but on the other hand, you have no concrete solution or suggestion how to solve much bigger problems in the future than a TV subscription. Perhaps the direction would be, for example, to suggest a reduction in the TV subscription. I do not believe that the question of the director of HRT is the reason why you did not do it, but simply the appeal of Kovačić, or the director of HRT through HDZ, was too strong to insist on it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u854	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u855	My colleague Maras, thank you very much for the discussion. I'm sorry that you didn't start when you were in power from HTV and attacked further, but I'm sure you'd have solved the problems by now. However, you must know that the director, the board of directors, you appointed the Supervisory Board during your quota of the CNS. Now and now these same people are in those positions, you need to know that and you need to determine that. Secondly, you say that HTV tax is equal to HEP. I absolutely agree, however, HTV is the only one who has the power to charge RTD in Croatia and HEP has competitors. I would be most fortunate if HEP were doing the same thing this way and I would take everything with my own measures and MOST that he and HEP are doing this way. You were in those governments while you were sitting, while you advertised yourself in great results and successes, unfortunately today you wouldn't be talking about this, there wouldn't be 300 grand done, there wouldn't be 100 thousand people going out. And this is one of the reasons, a little wheel where 54 million out of the citizens' pockets went to someone to get rich. Just on this example, I speak annually. So help with your constructive proposals, we are only in discussion and there will be time, you have to propose proposals and I hope that you will try to be constructive regardless of whether opposition or power we are representatives of the people and we need to represent the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u856	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next person to report for the replica is representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u857	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bulls, I'm asking a question to all of us here in the Parliament to see what's causing these people's blockade. The reason for the blockade of our people is 180 thousand poor women who can't pay 80 kn and not the executions they're sending them. What are we supposed to do here? What can we do? We can free these people who have less income than $1800 not to pay their subscription or turn off their TVs and let 180,000 people not look at us. This poor thing doesn't even have to look at us. So I ask an 1800 kn question that a citizen in Croatia can live and pay his obligations at all? Not one. Let's get these people out of here so they don't pay for something I can't pay for. It goes further into these people's affairs. We saw yesterday sharing in our market of Ban Jelačić how many people waited in line to get some food, in Osijek how many people stood there and how many others would like to get 10 kilos of fruit or vegetables or anything. And we're trying our best here. Of course, they need to be removed, but let's just think about that people of 1800 kn can't live. What does television show us? Gruntovite, Prosecution, it's from the former system. What's production doing to us? Nothing. The sport that we pay for some Max TV can't be seen by our children in our fields. We're playing politics here, and people are starving. I'm telling you, let's free people up to 1800 kn, actually we from... Let's see how a man can live and pay for everything else. [[You don't understand.]] They'd all pay if they could. I don't think that we here in the Parliament are in favour of providing for ourselves the chairs, sitting around and having good incomes and the party we talked about yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u858	Representative Misic, time, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u859	Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u860	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u861	Thank you very much. I would like to agree that the social care law or some other law should regulate people who can't pay the TV tax, who are constantly imposing themselves on us and through the activities of people simply cannot survive, let alone impose the duties. And that's what to think about, that's what to talk about because really these people are forgotten. So, as soon as it's necessary, but by another regulation, because it can't be a rule about HRT. If I didn't agree on HRT's work, of course I don't agree, of course I didn't agree last time as far as the chair was concerned about overruling the authorities, and those who were overrule the authorities, let them ask themselves whether at that point they were guarding power or fighting for the citizens or for the national interests. So we're talking about overruling the government because you were talking about chaires. So, we're talking about chairs that have nothing to do with chairs, this is one legal proposal where 54 million kunas are stuck in people's pockets somewhere. And that's what people are gonna spend that money on. And of course social categories should be protected, but that's another regulation. Of course, on HTV, you need to do a rationalization, reduce your TV subscription, but before that, you need to do a time-hodogram, give the responsible person who's going to answer to us here. He's not in that place right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u862	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u863	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj somehow seems to me that since yesterday and today the debate continues in this direction to speak as fellow Pernar said about the consequences, not the causes. Of course, it's not your fault. I think what you need to pay attention to as a proposing, so these partial solutions are good in purpose, but it will not solve the overall problem and the problem is quite complex and large. I'll say it in a graphic way. I remember as a student I saw a swing that people made so they tied the swing to two branches on the opposite sides of the tree. Well, when they wanted to swing it, they saw it couldn't. Then they sat down and they thought, and they cut the tree in half, and they took it in Slavonia, and we call it the strikers, so they raised it up a little bit, and they made it a place for the swingr to swing, and it seems to me that this bill makes you decide to cut off some more of that tree so that you could swing or swing even better. But the essence of the whole story is that the tree needs to be torn down, it needs to be made of a quality swing. Therefore, a quality bill should be drawn up. We will soon have a proposal of the Executive Law. I'd say the direction is good but we're in the back alley. And in this case, when we talk about HRT, a lawyer has been kicked out of the story, but a public notebook has been thrown out. So the question is actually how effective such a law will be in practice, whether what counterpart Richembergh said would not help the citizens. The basic intention is to help people who are really in a difficult situation. Yesterday we saw there was a presentation of the map of poverty of Croatia, unfortunately there is my county, right behind Brod-Posaviska in second place, there is my Voćin who is along with Kistanje municipalities in the most difficult condition. So we have to do things to help people, but in one system way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u864	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u865	Thank you very much. My colleague, this is just the direction I'm going to take, this is just the beginning of the mandate, this is within what we promised, and we are proposing these changes and additions that are not to the detriment of our citizens. And the reason of course that it is known from the CNB from the way we entered the EU, only now we see the results in agriculture, we see a number of directives. I simply agree that Croatia needs one within the EU, a sovereign concept and protection of national interests, not exclusively European Commission directives. Well, of course, at the time they voted unanimously in the EU's Council for Joining the EU. I wasn't here then, I don't know is you and your colleagues, to get in this way as we entered the EU to get in. There's a cause. The servile half-tronic entry of government of the state and the politicians who ruled this country has led the country to these branches, on all issues. Not only the RTD fees, but the National Banks who... are people, thousands of other problems. The causes are thousands of problems. And this is the direction, this is just the direction that public service must look at all citizens as mentioned earlier and be available to everyone, not to be the means of someone to get rich on the basis of these citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u866	Thank you, Agent Mir Bull. The next person to answer the word is MP Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u867	I expected there to be a guarantee on the agenda, which is that the subscription is smaller. This isn't about the fact that the subscription will be less because it won't. It's only about changing the way we do things, but people will go on doing things. So it's not a neck, it's a neck. You've lost your guarantees along the way, so there's nothing from the economic belt, there's nothing less than a subscription to HRT, and it's actually the impression that the guarantees are one smoke curtain while behind closed doors the government, so the people don't have fun on the principle of circle and games, with no bread. What I'm trying to tell you is that it is not the same to pay a subscription of 80 kuna to a pensioner in Croatia who barely covers the end of the one in Slavonia, Lica, Kordun, Banija, Bilogorina, Moslavina, the Dalmatian hinterland, for example. pay a subscription to a public firm director, a parliamentary representative. Therefore, we must make it easier for these people. So these pensioners who receive a thousand and five hundred kunas, one thousand eight hundred kunas, and their television is the only window in the world, and they don't have other windows because they can't move anywhere with those receipts. Therefore, we must enable people to watch television without fear that because they watch television will be completed. And my proposal to the government, if you're not going to suggest it, we'll suggest that whoever has nothing to pay for it, whoever has little to pay for it, and whoever has more to pay. We need to make a socially sensitive system in Croatia once. A system that will allow citizens in the 21st century to have communication and to watch things happen, not to look. So I call on everyone to get serious because today's topic is not to be traced to abolishing or reducing the subscription, exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u868	I thank Representative Bernardic. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u869	Coli Bernardić is a real representative speech and I respect that, but I would like that when you have been in office for four years if you had acted the same way, and this proposal would have been proposed by me then by the TV screen because I agree that this is the only window the world to our people, mostly poor, who must have the right to public information and certainly the triba, and I am sorry that you did not, while you were in the position of the Social Care Act, put those people on the stand, and MOST will certainly do so in the hodogram in the next period. I repeat again, in the Government program there will be a diagram of the timing of the appointment of the HRT director, there will be a hodogram on the reduction of the TV fee, if only in the TV fee it is not just a tv fee to pay to HTV. There are also other very important segments of public media from local level. I repeat, I'm glad you're performing, but politics can't be run from... or out to be a Social Democrats you have to live here and I hope you live here, I obviously hope. But I'm sorry not only when you're opposed but when you were in a position I'm sorry that you didn't do all this for sure today Miro Bulj wouldn't be a parliamentary representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u870	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next person to answer the word is representative Zeljko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u871	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to try to briefly say how much inconsistencies and inconsistencies there are here even though the target has been perfectly chosen but the wrong path and the wrong tool has been chosen. So several times the lawyers are mentioned and I'm a lawyer by interest, you need to know that in Croatia there are about 5,000 lawyers from blocking them or having trouble paying, so they are also the perpetrators. Here you can talk in a negative context about a few lawyers who, I won't say, have been privatized, but have the opportunity to represent such large public entities. Among other things are called notebooks, you must know that around ten notebooks have thousands of executive items, and that the other 330 of the 340 public notebooks in Croatia don't actually have such large objects and you call them all the courtesies as if they were all in the same business. So don't forget that your notebooks are a public legal service. So they do legal public service. You could have ordered not to raise the number of HRT employees who would be leading the operation but you could have ordered that the notebooks should work for you. And to see now how much is the situation between HRT and other TVs, look at business.hr, I quickly calculated in 2015 you end up with, on HRT employees 2799 with an average gross salary of 13 thousand kuna, which means that it goes to salaries of 436 million or 32% of total income. Nov@TV has 394 million employees, an average salary of more than 17 thousand kuna and only 16%. It's the same situation with RTL that has an average salary of 15756 and a total income share of 16%. So you have twice the payload on HRT, and if you wanted the HRT Act, then you had to go that way. I'll tell you still but I can't... [[The incursion of the president: Mr. Lackovicu time.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u872	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u873	My colleague, you mentioned here and the salary on HRT, it's an average of 13,000 as far as I understand you. Yeah, some have 3 and some have 43. So HRT needs rationalization. There are people there who really work in the field they should decentralisation across the territory of the Republic of Croatia their TV becomes that they can, that all citizens have legal information from all over. This is about unbalanced payments. Someone's got a lot of resources, someone's got a small one. So in rationalization, when you go in, you have to be careful that these HTV employees and radios don't fire these people as savings, we're gonna fire people who have low wages and we're gonna leave them, so that's where you should be careful, there really should be an editorial policy... As far as law offices are concerned, of course lawyers do their job honorably but can't have a monopoly and create their empire over a tv fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about social, 54 million kunas that, over 50 million kunas that should be in consumption and this is how it goes only to individual groups. And here they're not left out by law lawyers. If the HTV is to be held by an executive, it means that it will not be able to proceed in a court proceedings either on the one hand or on the other, if the lawsuit is to be, then, of course, it will involve a lawyer and not in the process itself, so that someone with 200 kuna can come to him with a debt of 4 thousand kuna. So this is where the money stays in our fellow citizens' pockets. And I ask you once again all together, join your proposals, debates because in this reading all these suggestions of your debate can be included before the second reading in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u874	Thank you, Agent Buljo. Representative Nenad Stazic for replication reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u875	This is my colleague Bulj, when I read the bill I suspected he was done quite superficially. But after your presentation, I'm quite certain of it. You're explaining that legal proposal by bringing here a whole series of completely incorrect data. First you say that these executive proposals are 180 grand. I've been talking to the most responsible people on HRT all morning, in charge of the tax, they say there's about 100 grand each year. It doesn't matter if it's 100 or 180, but it's important that an agent who comes here to explain something has or doesn't know what he's talking about but that at least there's about to come up with the exact information. You say it's done for 200 kuna, it's theoretically impossible if the fee is 80. How did you get the sum of 200 kuna? It is done mostly for 480 kuna. But you've been talking about 200 kunas 10 times without knowing it's impossible. You're talking about one-off profits from public notebooks. Do you know how much they charge? You know? You have no idea otherwise you wouldn't be talking about it. They charge 60 kuna for the composition of the solution and 30 kuna of the executive clause. That's 10 kunas less than your proposal. And what else increases costs are VAT and tax, public tax. Cancel VAT and public note fees on this service so that citizens, will not pay such enormous sums on these charges, you will not impose a job on HRT that does not know how to work and everything will be fine. But you would have done that if you had prepared yourself, but you didn't learn the data, you didn't learn the data, but you come here, but you're totally pulling any numbers out of your sleeve and asking the rest of us to be responsibly accessing this proposal of yours. We will approach this business responsibly. We'll approach. I'll say it when I speak for the club. This problem exists, but you can't get rid of it in your head and in your head and completely forgive amateurally.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u876	I would like to thank Agent Stazic, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u877	Here as a longtime parliamentary representative, my colleague Stazic is otherwise, I followed it before it was really theatre and disinformation is very simple. Yes, 180 thousand executions and 100 thousand completed, some repeat. Let me tell you again. So I just know, maybe the HTV's too much influence was mostly in some people's politicians, when whoever turned on the TV would jump out of the pasture like a fellow Stazic. Maybe that's the problem where they're going to need a new principalship and an editorial office to commit that one of the politicians doesn't work that way. At least it was about me. There's the problem. And this is the exact information, the information that's been taken out. That half information you'll have to confirm means 100 thousand perpetrators and 100 thousand executions. So 100,000 people are finished, that's accurate information. And you can really follow that there are people who, for 400 kunas, have two, three debts, they've been completed two, three or more thousand kunas. That's true. The theatre in this House is beautiful and therefore everyone has the right to speak. But if you tell anyone he's telling the truth then check it out, you're a parliamentary representative who's been here for 25 years and you certainly know how to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u878	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next representative to answer the word is Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u879	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So there's no one in this Assembly who won't work in the interest of our citizens. The same way that when a bill is done you can approach a problem systematically, and you can approach it in a way that only solves one segment of the problem. You have decided to resolve unlike other colleagues who have advocated a systematic one segment. I must admit, I am in principle in favour of that. Because if you can't look at all the problems that are then let's solve segment by segment and we'll do something. However, you said something that I needed to warn you through this replica after this speaker long ago. So we know that we have legislative, executive and judicial authority, and we also know what the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is. You have referred to some announcements in the newspaper that they will be requested to be launched before the Constitutional Court. What is the task, the task is to make a quality and sound bill. Everyone has an absolute right to start constitutional laws and your task is to make a quality and well-designed bill so that the Constitutional Court, when it works, says everything is done properly and confirms the law. And not from the pay phone, you refer and evaluate what is constitutional, it's not constitutional. Each of us needs to do our homework. I had one law that was in this high house, there were 14 constitutional lawsuits, all 14 constitutional lawsuits rejected because the law was made quality. Therefore, to make a quality law and not to be called what the Constitutional Court will do or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u880	Thank you, Agent Anki Dark-Taritash. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u881	Well, thank you very much. I've only established the basis of the constitutional court's solutions that were, there are other meanings of state bodies that decide on their own claims. I just called so that the police who, though, are a state body, not a public institution like HRT set out a mandatory criminal order. So they themselves bring an executive order, if the debtor is guilty, and if he does not pay. That's what the Constitutional Court decides and says it's not against the constitution. So on this point, I've only called myself on this, I've made my point that it's already about the enforcement of these documents court in one state body, not to find that it's not against the constitution. So absolutely every citizen has the right to seek counter-constitution, to the Constitutional Court to demand that laws be declared unconstitutional for various reasons. And it's absolutely not disputed. Our opinion is based on so far's solutions to the Constitutional Court. Constitutionally someone can say it's unconstitutional, has the right of the Constitutional Court to do its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u882	I thank Representative Buljo. The next person to report for the replica is representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u883	Thank you, Mr. President. So, fellow Bull, from your debate, I would only refer to two things. The first way to collect, forced collection of TV fees was the subject of our discussions a year ago. We also talked about this at the National Minorities Council directly to HRT. Of course, however, no one reacted. What's this about? I will only know how it works to read one data for 3 unpaid TV fees which amount below 400 kuna follow the procedure, foreseeable costs + VAT, notable costs + VAT, composition of the proposal to deliver the solution + VAT, then the costs of so-called. These are the composition of the proposal for performance + VAT, public registration fee + VAT and flat-rate costs + VAT. And that's about 900 kuna somewhere. So in this whole procedure, everyone went well, and the lawyers, and the notebooks, and the rich and the state, because she charged each of these 7 stores neatly with VAT. And that thing needs to be changed anyway and we're going to be in the debate and we're going to give even one suggestion on how to do it. Another thing I'd like to do, so the dilemma I'd like you to explain to me is how you're going to do it and the payment order. Under the rules of the civil process, the payment order is exclusively a formal-law instrument of the court. This is a solution to which the court accepts the prosecutor's order for payment of a particular cash claim without giving the defendant the opportunity to argue. I don't see how you're going to transfer that one jurisdiction to a public institution. Will it be the law are and the generics? I don't think you can do it exactly the way you've proposed this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u884	Thank you, Agent Horvath. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u885	Thank you very much for saying the whole thing now. 340 kunas are three unpaid bills, 80, 240 frames, and only then follow this procedure you said, followed by a hack. It's literally a harbinger to the damage of our citizens where everyone has a profit except for the people, our citizens. As for the executive order, HTV gets, payment order pardons, HTV gets means public authority, it is an institution with public powers, also as police as a state body also has a payment order, absolutely charged in this way. Only if there is a court dispute then goes, absolutely the same as the public body has institutions because the HRT tax, of course your proposal will need to be checked and will need to be harmonised. That's why it's the first reading in this way, in the second reading of all that you've said. Thank you very much for the suggestion. So the whole thing's gonna go, it's gonna go the same way the police did. Because HRT is the only one who can charge the TV fee. He has no competition. He gets public authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u886	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next person to report for the replica is a representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u887	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would only represent Bulju who basically presented here the measure of things and the spirit of what this is about to achieve while on the other hand we have as we had this morning on the board means some excuse which is not good, which should change and have been on occasion throughout all these years to change both this bill of law and other laws. So, in addition to this guarantee, we also have a proposal for the Executive Act, which also means one of these guarantees of MOST that have not disappeared as some of the MPs say and that will go into the procedure as will go into the procedure and reduce the fee for HRT but of course it takes a hodogram, it can not be accessed unseriously because by breaking this over the knee, we would question the survival of the public service. But what's safe and what's here for those who have been involved with their replicas in the debate is that about 50 million kunas will remain in our fellow citizens' pockets, that without that money, not all lawyers will remain, this is not the calling of all lawyers but those who built their empires on that money particularly media. And then it's quite clear, because we announced this measure before the start of the official campaign, it's quite clear why certain hits are media on MOST via the Morning List issue of Hanza Media but we won't give it up. Maybe it was appropriate for some, and maybe through these media, they polished their character and work, and we didn't do it. And to those who are going to hit us for it, I only order them to continue, as we have done so far, we will work in the interests of the citizens, not in the interest of those who built their media empires at the expense of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u888	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u889	I would say briefly that in essence the intensity of this law is the reorganization of the reduction of that subscription now I am speaking because you have now mentioned that they are objecting to us. Intention is the reorganisation of HTV and depolitisation of HTV as one public service available to all our citizens. And what we're proposing now, this legislative amendment, is just one step and a direction and according to the executive law that will be and is now partially amended, and then and fully, there will be this law that will simply be a guideline of which we want to go. And that truly those who create their empires on the burden of the poor will no longer pass. It's not a small process. I'm really sorry that some people thought I could go from all kinds of restaurants... Or what they're called to solve these problems. [[You don't understand.]] Indeed, it cannot be solved in this way, and I expect everyone to participate in this debate because this debate helps this proposal to see the light of day for the benefit of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u890	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next representative to report is representative Branimir Glavas for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u891	A fellow Bulj has given you the ungrateful role to play in this Assembly and the public proposal of the club of representatives of MOST to amend the law supplementing the Law on HRT, an ungrateful role. Since I have many mandates in my legs, I would suggest and suggest that you do not catch up to such a hot potato in the future and explain to the Parliament speaker, for your own good. I was going to say something else, but here I am offered by Mr. Grumoja and his exposure, so I'm going to focus on it, and I'm going to connect to yours. I have a feeling that the background of all that has been given in the procedure is not exactly what you are trying to present to the public through these amendments to the law because it is simply selling fog to the Croatian public because this problem will not be solved. The background seems to me exactly what my predecessor was saying in the replica of a coup against a single law firm or a bookhouse to prevent it from creating some kind of private empire. I've never been a favorite of the Morning List and they haven't built my character and work, but on the contrary, everything bad in the media sense that I've experienced I've experienced from that media house and I have no reason to defend it at all. The problem will not be solved, the problem needs to be solved in some other way. I want to look back at this part of what you said and cover yourself with our poor, poor, poor pensioners. I am convinced in the structure of 180 thousand executives that he is the least retired. And those pensioners with 2,000 kuna pay their subscription. Please reduce this subscription and open the HRT problem and 3000 employees. There's a gene of all HRT problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u892	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u893	You, as a politician of course, have spent a long time in the Parliament. You must have experience of what you are talking about. And certainly your thesis can be reversed, I really don't have to take it seriously but it can be set up that way. Surely the cause of everything is the executive law because it is so bad that the number of blockeds is increasing daily. That's true. The intensities must go according to the executive law. We're not here against individual lawyers or lawyers, we're against monopolies and damage to citizens, and certainly all the political options you've been in power once and you could certainly change things by law. I'm sorry you didn't. And I have great respect and respect for you. As a result, the law is essentially the time to write a whole new one. It's even so bad that all the changes we can propose can't be good. It's so targeted it's written to destroy every citizen and to fill various lobbys with their pockets, it's a fact that it's impossible for this country to be so blocked and destitute in the way it is today, and a couple of individuals to get rich. So obviously the Executive Law was not for the purpose of helping citizens and the functioning of the state but vice versa. There's the reverse thesis. And as far as certain lawyers are concerned, let's just not be guessing, let's all have lawyers' houses on the same terms and that's okay. but not to the great harm of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u894	Thank you, Agent Buljo. We've exhausted this part with this. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless, of course, I'm opening a debate. The first to report to the clubs for discussion is the HNS-HSU club debate on behalf of the club will be given by a representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u895	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing His Majesty's small screen in which we pay 960 kuna a year, so all citizens and it is in a huge disproportionate proportion to 100 squares of the 900-to-depending holiday house, which is a 500-thousand-to-a-year zone, it is in a huge disproportionate proportion to paying a middle-class car tax of 500 kuna. So we have one favor and a obligation which, by legal obligation, we owe us, not according to our contract imposed by the law and which we must pay. We have to pay for it, and then if we don't use that receiver. The only situation when we are free of charge is that our HRT service comes to seal all the receivers, so that's the only way we're free of payment fees. Remember the fee we did not, or the debt religious relationship we did not establish voluntarily and that is the difference with the payment of electricity, with the payment of water, with the payment of the phone because there are debt religious relations based on the contract. He's here under the law. Now, here we begin with some claims, thank God that the first reading was downloaded here. I look forward to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will surely ask HRt for an argument for a lot of allegations standing here and will equip this law if it is ever referred to another reading with much more information, or that the Government will ask its opinion to supplement this law with much more data. Because you're not going to tell me that the law says that HRT has to unserve the terms of the fee? Where does it say in the law? Find out if that's what the law says? And HRT has outsourced these jobs. It says here it has capacity. If she had the capacity, would she have put in a concession for this job? Well, she probably wouldn't, she'd probably charge her experts. If you do not believe that this is possible with your employee to make a payment, then check out my dear colleagues and colleagues additional health insurance of the Republic that has the billability of its claims 98% and ask them how they do it without authing this service. As long as I cannot say here that the claim is correct because the bill is based on flat-rate allegations and incorrect arguments and claims that HRT has human and technical potentials, the unverified is unargumented. The proposal for a law does not contain any information on the basis of which it can be verified. I ask the most logically if HRT had experts and professional capacity to charge a fee, should the good master's manners be used only for reasons for citizens to pay more, for the state to get VAT all that is already said in the discussion? Well, you shouldn't. We should ban them if they have their own experts to take such a big job outsoring the new burden to the citizens. So we here by law are trying to solve the problem of mismanagement of HRT's poor work, distribution of jobs, everything they have to do and savings for citizens. Another thing I cannot accept in this law is that here it is said that the law is aimed at addressing the problem of socially sensitive groups of citizens. Yeah, probably in his original form he suggested a reduction in the fee, it doesn't say here. So that goal here does not stand in the content of the law. And whoever says they're going to do it, I'm paying attention to just one detail. And you know you have to believe me here for a long time in this Croatian Parliament, in front of HSU I sent in the procedure a law there in 2006 on the release from the TV fee for pensioners and elderly people, it could even pass before entering the EU. But of course it's wrong if you can't free people by status from certain obligations, but we are in our government regardless of why I didn't get our support independently because I didn't get the support of our government, our coalition government. I have directed the law in which I asked for retirement households, that is, all households whose income is less than income of 1516 per member or 1936 kuna where families, where a single person lives to reduce their tv tax to half, so to 40 kuna. Of course, our coalition government didn't accept it as well, but something happened and it's in effect. So you can't ignore this. 12 October 2015 On the basis of the previous consent of the Electronic Media Council, the HRT Supervisory Board has decided to reduce the amount of the monthly fee to 40 kuna by a specific category of pensioners. Therefore, pensioners who are bonded to pay the monthly tax and receive a pension from a state budget that does not exceed 1500 kuna and who were on the day of their decision on 12 October in the Croatian register of the payment of the monthly fee. To be clear, this is a good decision for the pensioners who knew this. Have you ever seen HRT publicly publish this decision by the Croatian Supervisory Board? He hides like a snake's feet. On February 15th, 17,000 requests were granted, service applications issued were granted slightly more than 12,000 of these, let's say the benefits they call them on HRT for pensioners. But I'm not here, of course I'm in favour of social security and the standard of pensioners, but you can't make a decision like this. The decision is deeply wrong. Why is it broken? Because it was meant to cover all those who live and the subscribers of HRT are independent of their status. So this decision cannot be just for the pensioners, it will have to be for all the unemployed, for all those who have no income whatsoever, because we have experience, a pensioner or an elderly person who has no income cannot be freed or reduced by half. So we already have some system. So anyone who's saying they're going to do something epochal new, I think you should take a step back, look at what we have and see how to curb this cost of which it's justified to talk about this unnecessary cost to citizens. It's justified to talk about him. It's just that this is the only solution we're proposing here is to question it. I'm questioning this because it's not just a social moment because of the non-payment or the inability to pay for a tv fee, it's not just a reason for not paying. Gentlemen, you have a dissatisfaction with the program. The people in spite won't pay and they'd rather sue and prove they don't want to pay for that program. You have another thing that's very important for us in Istria but also a lot of other ends that you don't have a signal. So you pay the fee on the TV on which you listen or watch Slovenian or Italian radio stations and pay HRT, so you have no signal. Are your reasons for not paying or for objecting to payment justified? Who's going to answer that? Is this the task of the HRT to cover the entire territory of Croatia with the same quality of the signal that everyone can use this public service? So we open up this debate with a lot, a lot of questions, a lot more than this one, in this reasoning of the law can fit. And let's not really, let's not turn what is the domain of governance into such a large and important institution in Croatian society into legal solutions. It really doesn't make sense because the law only has to solve what's not possible. And let's not imagine at the beginning of the term of office that we're here, that we're producing laws without criteria, that's not true. We need to see what is wrong with existing legal solutions, so the first position is to analyse the systems as they function, what they do not need is to improve and resolve and reduce the costs of citizens wherever possible. Here are these proposals with a payment order, I'm not a legal expert, but legal experts warn me. And believe that here attacked lawyers can defend themselves and fight for their rights. And if something, if something in this law is borderline or conflicts with constitutional principles, they will bring it down, don't worry before we as MPs, rather than citizens because they know the legal argument, not because they are powerful but because they will find a legal argument that the Constitutional Court won't be able to dispute. Therefore, let us not take in hands tools that we are not taught to handle. And one of those tools is this payment order. I can accept that it would be an exception in our legal system but I'm not sure this issue deserves that exception. But in addition, we can also say here that the topic originally based on the social sensitivity of this law and the sensitivity to the categories that are difficult for Croatia to live in is essentially the flow of the charge. By giving the finals the opportunity for those who don't pay now not to pay more cheaply. So for those who have been in the system before, you're giving them the opportunity not to pay them any more. Try to think, you can wonder all you want, try to think about what's written here. Did you give them a chance to complain cheaper, and okay, they're gonna pay for one payment order and they're gonna start again for five, six months and it's gonna be a lot cheaper than the execution. Hence, the purpose may be, or warning before the occasion, a motivation to pay for something. But much better than that, it would really be that HRT itself deals as a model for other institutions to send notices and to meet people who are their rights and their duties and to collect them in a much more peaceful manner. I must say that the changes which are called for the alleged social insensitivity of HRT towards non-taxable persons are abolishing the basic, constitutional values of the right to a fair trial, the right to legal aid, the right to equality of all before the law and all for the alleged purpose of facilitating the social position of HRT debtors in executive proceedings. So we have some pretty masked goals. And because of the so-called masked goals of the HNS and HSU club, he will be restrained by the adoption of this law. We don't doubt that this should be discussed, very openly but no one has the exclusive right to the truth in this story until we face arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u896	I'd like to thank Mr. Hrelja. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u897	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say that Mr. Hrelja said a lot, and yet essentially not so much. But what matters is that the current system of charge is not good anyway. And this system that suggests MOST is essentially better than what we have right now. And I don't think it's just a matter of criticism and that this proposal should be supported in its nature because it represents a positive change. However, as I said, I did not solve the cause of the problem myself, and the cause of the problem is generally a bad executive law that brought us here where we are and actually that created the problem with the RTV subscription. I think the debate on the RTV subscription should have come after the debate on the executive law. Because if the Implementing Law were to be amended in a way that would stop this practice, we wouldn't have to pass a special law, that is, amendments to the law only related to HRT. And I also believe that Mr. Hrelja has properly warned about the height of that subscription and that it should be reduced essentially by our court and abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u898	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u899	Thank you. Dear colleague, I respect your activity in the Croatian Parliament immediately at the right sessions. I can only convey one part of my experience from 13 years ago. I have to tell you that for six months, I kept my mouth shut and inhaled my senior colleagues and didn't take off. I'm asking you, I thank you for what you support, and I'm glad to see that as your confession. You are now an attractive media star in the Croatian Parliament and I am pleased, but do not claim that the Executive Law, amendments and additions of the Executive Law would solve this issue as well. If that were settled, I believe that I would propose one rather than two laws. This is a particular problem, the problem of the HRT fee, and we can talk about it both in this way and in HRT business reports where you'll get to know when it comes to these benches a lot of things that we're talking about today. And yet I'm telling you this is the problem of handling one big company, not the problem of the need to pass and amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u900	Thank you, Agent Hrelja. The next person to report for the replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u901	Thank you, Your Honor. We today have a point that is micro, micro-level and we see that the intensity in the Parliament is justified and that one macro-level is discussed. And the issue of HRT certainly requires a bigger debate and I actually see it, understand and support the intensity of MOST. However, the HRT theme should be the main and basic issue of the reconstruction of HRT. And inside that, the issue of subscription could be a sub-topic, so as a lower level and then within that level, it can certainly be this micro, micro-level that is proposed today and which is somewhat justified and I respect it. However, as we see the question of the fee mentioned by colleagues, Hrelja is also a complex problem that cannot be solved just as well. So it requires one more systematic approach and I'll mention the BBC here. Why? We like to call on the BBC when it comes to web design and some similar comparisons because they would not be invited and there has already been a comparison of such. So if the BBC had lost $150 million last year and 1,000 people were fired, and they're making 5 billion a year. We all know what a BBC is and what a top production is and that public service role models are all over the world. And where did they come from, someone's gonna tell them? Well, from the subscription. And that is, from this we see that the subscription is a very complex problem and that it should certainly be taken into account and solved systematically, to resolve a complete amendment to the HRT Act although this intensity is quite justified. Why did that loss of subscription come up? Because that's probably going to happen to us, too, that's an unexpected number. Let me just finish my sentence. [[Intruder President: Honored MPs time.]] An unexpected number of people have pleaded not to watch TV. So more than a million people, and this should be taken into account that it may happen in Croatia when amendments to the Law on HRT are being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u902	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u903	Dear fellow Members, you have well noticed that the problem of tv fees is just one of the sea problems and that this is really opening up the problem at micro-level, but this micro-level something for citizens means and deserves our attention and discussion. But I have to tell you that it exists with us, we have an unconstitutional approach to solving the problem. On the one hand, we have one censorship for the release of supplementary health insurance, so the other institution of the state institution brings a second census of 1500 kn. So I know that about 500 thousand pensioners, and 750,000 citizens have income censorship below 1516 kuna per person, or 1936 kuna as single. Isn't that some data that are deeply disproportionate to that, although little old data that I have from February 2016, that only 17,000 pensioners reported having lower incomes and only 12 and a half thousand were granted and for reasons why it doesn't say in the decision whether it's per member of the family, whether it's income, whether it's, or whether it's just income based on pension. So, it's not a problem that only, that we do sometimes good laws, so it disfigures them with rules in certain ministries, but it's a problem and bodies with public powers, i.e. institutions like HRT, that they're very inaccurately making their decisions that are not even close to the other laws, the Social Care Act, but neither in law nor in relation to the Consumer Protection Act. And this law should be harmonised with the Consumer Protection Act. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u904	Thank you. The next representative to answer the word is Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u905	Thank you, Mr. President. In your presentation, you mentioned the decision to determine the amount of monthly fee to be paid to HRT in this case for 2016 and the benefits for certain categories of payment obligations made by the Supervisory Board not only in 2015 but also in 31 August 2016. You mentioned that a large number of those whom this decision applies may not even know of their right. I'm going to use one piece of replica to read, so 50% refers to people with muscular dystrophy and related neuromuscular diseases. People who have overcome cerebral or child paralysis with damage to the organ to move more than 80% of the users of the aid allowance. People with disabilities with diagnosis of paraplegia disease, tetraplegia, lower extremities amputation with organ damage to movement over 80%. Then persons with 100% hearing impairment, and pensioners who receive a pension from the state budget of up to 1500 kuna on the day of decision being recorded as bonds, and in the register of the payment of a monthly fee in the Republic of Croatia, led by the HRT in accordance with Article 34(7). The law. One part of the population is freed, so the blind and other patients treated with kidney dialysis and deaf people are free of full subscription. I've been approached by a citizen whose problem I'm going to bring here in the last 30 seconds, which is that a citizen who also has a pension below 1,500 kuna, who receives a pension not from the state budget, but, say from Bosnia and Herzegovina is not released, has no right to 50%. The Ombudsman recommended the HRT Supervisory Board to amend its decision to reduce the broadcaster's subscription within 60 days as it said in its decision it must not indicate where the pension was paid because in a specific case it is a matter of discrimination. So I'd like to invite the Supervisory Board to do so on a special recommendation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u906	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u907	Well, esteemed colleague Bauk, thank you for supplementing my presentation. Indeed, this is precious, and it is precise that besides pensioners who pay half the fee, there is also a category of citizens who are justifiably excluded from full payment. But should this be kept silent in Croatian society, is that why Croatian broadcasting as a public service should not or refuse to give public notice through the widest media? No, it's not just a commercial. It is a confirmation of the social sensitivity of Croatian broadcasting and we all expect it from it. Secondly, whether the legislator is allowed to drop those activities if he claims that the law has, that is, an objection to social sensitivity and, of course, the proposer has dropped that common rate of reduction in the fee to 65 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u908	Thank you. The next person to answer the word is Agent Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u909	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Hrelja, for the first time, I have to agree with you in one thing that those who don't pay the tv fee may not be satisfied with the program and the software content. So this payment of HRT debt goes in some way with a law made by Mr Ivo Josipovic, and as far as copyright goes, he listened not to his music you have to pay for it, because you do not have to pay for television again. But Mr. Stazic mentioned that there was a whistler with HRT because he knows that you love whistles at least when in the case she was... I got my whistle and I got my whistle, and he sent it to me like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian broadcasting has just over 3000 employees and has 4 TV and 4 radio channels. By reducing the subscription from 80 to 65 kuna, about 400 people will lose their jobs on HRT. And the reform needed by HRT, which no one has the courage to face, calls for efforts to oust political structures from that house and people prone to certain political options. They are the issue of HRT as well as crime and corruption. Every director has been acting like a drunk billionaire, so he spends his hand and hat on private productions, and he doesn't care that HRT has enough people to broadcast and produce programs. The negative selection of employment has resulted in incompetent, unprofessional and politically colored personnel, so with the right of HRT we call party television. When we look at the program and TV and radio it's quite clear how they are in the service of the SDP and so on about the latest affair of Mrsic's wife, which remained 10 million kuna HZZO, we haven't heard a single letter on HTV. TV was very biased in the dramatic moments of the introduction of bilingualism in Vukovar and people who do not fit their ideological worldview cannot even come to television or say their opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u910	Thank you, Your Honor. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u911	Dear colleague Culey, I did not expect you to agree with me so quickly, although I do not agree with this further one of yours, at the end of your line, but in principle I agree with you on the quality of HRT production. I think it is one potential that could give much, much more and equally to all parts of Croatia. I also spoke to my citizens of Istria yesterday, with my Istrians who are in some way frustrated by the fact that, except during the tourist results and foreigners and beautiful parties, there is not much information about Istria, the problems, the achievements. There is a agricultural show about olivery and wine and about which fair but real life in Istria is very little. Maybe it's a good thing we're as mysterious as possible. However, in any case, I think we have a lot of good things to talk about. Not only Istria but also Gorski Kotar, about all their problems, are very little represented and the Primorje-Gorski County. Therefore, I agree that the quality of production can and must be greater and I am sure that HRT has enough creative potential for better production only these creative potentials should be released and not have any political tutor. Let them act according to the laws and rules of the profession, so professional journalism and let them report not only what is attractive but what is important for the lives of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u912	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u913	Thank you, Mr. President. When you presented in your presentation, your desire to change the comprehensive Law on HRT somehow gave me the impression that we would not only spend this mandate but also the next term in the amendments to the Croatian Law itself so that it would be tailored to our citizens. However, what I have somehow gained the impression that you are less concerned about consumers, means Croatian viewers and all users of that public service, I have somehow gained the impression that you are more concerned with the protection of HRT as institutions and lawyers, i.e. the executive would say that they are using the benefits given to them with this present situation. And that's where I'd actually go back to this crucial fact that we should go to changes to such a comprehensive law or we actually need what MOST and represents going through fast changes, not going with... We're not going with a perfect state that's inaccessible if you haven't been able to build a perfect law in the last 25 years. [[You don't understand.]] Here I personally don't believe it'll be done in a short time. Therefore, I am now in favour of this approach so that we can act within a short period of time and take off some of the burdens on our citizens. But what happened to me, actually, is that now it's occurred to me, most of all, that's what really worries me about the relationship between HRT and the lawyer, and you've mentioned that outsourcing yourself, somehow beats me in the head, that the idea that what you're saying is that someone doesn't have enough footage in their legal service and then outsours it. Here it is found, and there's a colleague named Arsen, around 100th, a colleague of Bulj 180th thousand dots, and now is it 100ths or 180ths to explain that HRT has arranged it all together with four lawyers' houses? How would we explain that they raise 100 million kuna a year to implement it? We can say what we should do with some public procurement, and I think that's what Uskok would have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u914	Thank you, counsel. The reply to the replica, the representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u915	Well, dear fellow Panenic, you were a minister, so you took part in the government, so why didn't you ask the principal why it was outsourced? For what? Is that what you're asking me to do? I've never been on one side. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are here to pass laws and in some ways to advocate fair solutions and the functioning of the legal system. And you just need to know that passing the law is a pathetic attempt by a man to single out what's good in a society and put it into legal frameworks as a rule of conduct. Therefore, we are all infallible and none of us will pass idyllic and perfect laws, so neither will you, however fast, quick solutions, explosive solutions, because you can blow up the whole system. So I suggest you study the system's errors to open up an argument and find a solution together, you'll have our support. But if you're going to promote Blitzkrieg here, which was abandoned after World War II, then I beg you, you won't have a partner in me for such solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u916	Thank you. The next person to answer for the order is Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u917	Dear Mr. Hrelja, there is only one question here today, will you allow 54 million more of our poorest citizens' money to go into the pockets of those which means that four law firms who will store it in their real estate in their newspapers and in their banks or will allow those 54 million kunas to remain in our 100,000 citizens' pockets that have been completed with 180 thousand occupancy. These citizens are going to spend that money, that's the money they would spend because part of them are blocked, which will spend and reverse money in our economy and maybe do something good. Those lawyers are just going to step up their bank account. And I can't understand that you represent the pensioners, and you say always and always you've settled in, we can't forget that you've settled in with both HDZ and SDP. This time you were in this coalition, did you think that this team would win, so you should represent the pensioners. The pensioners are unfortunately one of the poorest layers of our society and that is what is the greatest burden of this society at the moment, and you are also representing them, and you say now they should be punished more by those who did not have to pay these poor citizens and we will punish them more if it goes with the performance and so much underpaid, and not only this way by direct payment from HTV. Do you know how many lawyers it takes to do that? A dozen. With three thousand employees a dozen lawyers will find it within their employees, if they won't then they're incompetent, and if they need to be hired and twenty. It should be done there, not charged and be a burden to our poorest citizens. I expected you to be in defense of the poorest, but unfortunately you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u918	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u919	Dear Mrs. Linic, I didn't expect such low blows from you, but I will take the same measure. First of all, I respect what Mr. Glavas said, it is the least pensioners who pay an irregular service because it is either one of the few contacts with reality at the end and with us because they don't have enough money to travel, to see, etc., therefore you don't have the right to give me a lecture because this question you direct to me and demagogue you're asking the director of HRT why he gave these jobs in concession or outsourcing, not me, and this has no need to regulate the law. And the last thing I'm going to tell you is no less important, not so long ago, is not even six months ago you've been pushing for an increase in supplementary health insurance by 19 kuna and taking to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia a total of more than 400 million kuna, so not 54, you've been an advocate to take them 400 million kuna on fundamental constitutional right, right to health. So, I'm asking you not to plant it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u920	Thank you. The next person to report for the replica is representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u921	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. What exactly did the MOST promise before the election? He promised that the TV subscription would be reduced to 65 kuna. Today we have a version that it has given up but now it wants to throw out certain elected lawyers so they don't fold 50 million and I agree with that, right, and that needs to be rationalized and I personally support it. But one question arises, one who cannot pay 80 kuna, so he cannot pay 80 kuna. We don't need to think at all whether you can pay the costs of the execution a man can't pay 40, and not 80 kuna, they can't pay for it, and they can't ever pay for it. It has not been promised, therefore, that the voter's damage will be appreciated. But what our party is proposing to change Croatia, and then I'm going to ask you a question, Mr. Hrelja, all those who have incomes, permanently below a thousand 800 kuna, are pensioners not to pay these subscriptions. What are they going to calm down from, tell us the sources? Let the income of compulsory pension funds be reduced for their management of pensioners' funds. And if all the unemployed don't pay, who's gonna pay for them? Gentlemen 900 million kunas are paid every year, all state agencies pay for consulting services externally and therefore reduce because there is an army of experts working there. So party Change Croatia offers a solution completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u922	I'd like to ask a representative for an individual hearing, and get in response now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u923	individual question. Is this proposal, Mr. Hrelja, a proposal for this law, a relief of the lives of endangered social groups to reduce their TV subscription or the calculation of MOST with HANZA MEDIA?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u924	For a brief question, I'll give you a brief answer. This looks to me like a reckoning, not to help socially endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because 65 kuna reduction in the subscription has also disappeared, and there is no need for these processes that Mr. Bauk spoke of for the release and reduction of RTV fees not to be encouraged by these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u925	Thank you. The next representative to answer the word is Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u926	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Hrelja, I was just a moment ago while you had the exposure and replicas on Google looking for a term, a definition of the pulsism of cheap pulsism and demagogy and a picture of MOST appeared to me just to let you know. I think it's high time someone explained to the MOST colleagues that they've been part of the government for a year and tomorrow they'll probably start to be still, continue to be part of the same government. This law as it is written is a typical law which if someone from the opposition is going to write who doesn't have too much information and can't get it and is aware that there is a problem. I agree there's a problem, but this is not how he handles himself. No one here in this law has ever solved or predicted or said if HRT has the opportunity to do this at all? On the other hand, my question is, why does HRT work like that? The law doesn't say that HRT has to give it to private law firms or whatever. I can do it on my own. On the third hand, if I have a good memory, the Most is right along with HDZ in this government where the director of HRT was appointed in power. It's called if I'm not mistaken, Sinisha Kovacevic. You all raised your hands for him. E Sinisha Kovacic, I apologize. Furthermore, this issue is not a political issue, nor the issue of this House, this is an organisational issue. Gentlemen, enter the HRT, bring your principal in and solve this problem. This is a purely internal organization of HRT work. That one job that's for some reason... in some place puts it back into HRT's care and solves it. Therefore, this bill of law is not the law to be discussed by this House here, this is pure demagogy and the cheap pulsism of MOST. If you want to bring to Parliament what you have guaranteed and promised then give the law where you reduce the fee to HRT, give it. Don't really roll around and blur our eyes with such demagogy. Thank you very much. Among other things, the election campaign has passed. The government reassembled to stop saying that, start doing that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u927	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u928	Well, of course, thank you for the addition of colleagues. I just have to say that not that, that they've appointed a VD director but they'll appoint a director but they'll have other levers of governance like the Supervisory Board. And the Supervisory Board made such decisions as it made in August of this year, and in October of last year. Thus, 99% of the work defined or trying to solve this law is solved by organising the business or by managing the HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u929	Thank you. Now I suggest a break of an hour and a half. Continuation is at 3:00. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u930	Dear colleagues and colleagues have few of us but I hope they come back from lunch with the others. We're continuing the club debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, the word will now be given to the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u931	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is another law that we are discussing these days or we will discuss the next days which may have had a good motive to be sent to the Croatian Assembly but the form in which they came to the Croatian Parliament, a proposal for a solution to the problem or motives that our colleagues motivated that the instructions in the Croatian Parliament are unfortunately not so and we are afraid that they will create much more difficulties than they will bring solutions with them. It's also an experience, I hope you can see that from the discussions that take place on committees. And I, as a member of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, can testify after the debate we have on these committees that laws should no longer be referred to the Croatian Parliament in this way. These are not established laws, these are not discussed laws and these are laws that were made based on compromises to make, to reduce damage but not to reach a valid solution. That goes for this HRT Act, too. So, first of all, as regards the initial ideas of the promoter to compensate, the fees per month for HRT from 80 to 60 kuna, it is good that this did not come about because it would endanger the financial stability of the public service of Croatia's broadcasting service, which is in very poor condition anyway, and for other reasons why we as a Croatian Parliament would have to seriously discuss and devote a serious session of this House. Secondly, it is good that the proponent has come up with a compromise solution aimed at reducing the burdens that go to the harm of citizens and that go to the harm of HRT. And this proposal contains it. And my colleague Horvat in his replica of his colleague Bulju has shown what the structure of these duties is and why it is good that they are reduced by this proposal. However, everything about how this will be handled with the intrusion is unfortunately questionable. It is questionable that a) it will not help the most vulnerable categories which, for various reasons, due to very low incomes and due to the low charge and charge practice, actually do not pay taxes. So there's this factor that people have nothing to pay with and on the other hand, and there's a factor that it's an inert from a time when things like electricity, water, communals, television, phones weren't actually being paid. And while in these things previous, electricity, water and telephony, he's seduced himself into so much order here on television that's not the case. And that's why it's no accident that a colleague of the Hrelja says that the highest bidders are pensioners. Why? So they kept some of the payment culture as it used to be and many of these cultures unfortunately didn't acquire it in this time or think they shouldn't have it. And for this reason, this bill will not solve the most vulnerable category issue and neither will the charge be increased. What will be achieved and that is commendable is that the total cost of the charge will be reduced from 800 kuna to significantly lower. The second question is whether this will cause two problems that I will talk about later. Let's get back to this first. If we want to solve the most vulnerable category issue, then we need to find a way to solve this by subsidizing as it has been settled for example. electricity., for electricity for the most vulnerable categories, the parliament voted at the end of the mandate of the left centre, SDP, HNS and others. Therefore, if there was a possibility of subsidisation, it is possible to ensure that the most vulnerable categories are subsidized here as part of what the state otherwise gives HRT through the budget when costs are on Wednesday. And that's what I suggest to the promoters that next reading, along with others, consider how it's going to be done. As regards fees or fees, the model proposed here which has already been warned is that HRT will become a body with public powers and assume the powers of courts. We cannot give this law to them and it will collapse, it will fall in the Constitutional Court or fall in another court that is competent to do so. Croatian public television does not have the power to charge payment orders, there is no, regardless of what this law gives them, but other laws that are more important and older than this law do not give them the right. And that's the problem. Don't mind our colleagues who have proposed this with the bill's proposals, which is out of the question of the whole of the legislative system that the country has that needs to be changed. I suppose it's on the one hand a good will, and on the other hand a desire to do it as soon as possible. And it's showing up and the kids aren't working fast, and the law ain't working fast. Because laws are always part of a country's legal system and always raises the question of validity in relation to other laws. That's how it works with this law. This will come into conflict with the executive law, for example. Therefore, as is the question of the Law on the Rights of State officials in the conflict of interest law, as we have proposed. And all of this should be seriously considered until the next reading without special haste to look at and then come up with final solutions. Because this haste should be a lesson to us to do more in the way that we went to it so we don't continue it because we won't do it right. And then we're going to those we think we're going to do with this law, someone's talking about the monopoly, we're going to get rid of them in monopoly positions. We won't. We're just gonna give them a chance to bring this law down in court. For this reason, it seems important to prepare the law well. I'll do it again, I think it's good to look for a solution in the direction you're headed, very well. And another thing I'd like to say. For those who do not know this every year, although with delays of at least one year, the directors of HRT, which we do not have at this time, submit a report on programming, programme report, programme implementation and financial business. This is an opportunity to ask why this part of the job was given to someone outside of HRT and how it was given and who made that decision? And if he's made a violation of the law, so we're in the House under his legal powers that we can resolve if he's done wrong. We already have legal powers for that. If he has favored someone, if he has provided a monopoly or if he has damaged television or users or consumers and has burdened them with more giving than is necessary and necessary. And we invite you to view it as a way to solve things. The last thing I want to say. There won't be an increase in the payment of claims, because of these 100,000, most of them are not charged. But those in the chain had their profits and their profits regardless of whether it was charged or not. And that's why we should consider a way to avoid payment orders first, but at the same time find some other way. We used to have people doing it for a commission, which were kind of an incasator. Today, at a time of extreme unemployment, extremely poor and low pensions should look for ways to give people a chance to do so. It's not all bad because it was, because it's a sign of some kind of ideological or political solution, ideological or political value. It's not. Therefore, our proposal is for the following promoters, to take the proposals in the best faith, to make comments and criticisms made in the best faith not to rush with other readings but to consider them all and to discuss them at the competent parliamentary bodies so that a more quality solution is possible as the final text of the bill comes before us for discussion and voting. As it is now, this is still raw material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u932	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u933	Dear fellow Pupovac and you and I were in one of the Assembly's conferences when we asked for this speaker and from these places to provide us with information on the salary of the director of HRT. On Friday, we discussed parliamentary deputies, fees on coming and not getting to work. And we don't even know today what the salary is to the director of HRT because we didn't get a written answer on all our questions, and what we got didn't show the right situation. So, what am I saying? HRT's problems aren't just these, they're many, many more. I disagree with you that HRT cannot charge because this is a lex specialis that regulates the issue of HRT as well as cities and municipalities can charge their communal fees, communal contributions and what we do. I was surprised, with me in town just the ones who have the smallest receipts, which is already said here are mostly regular payers and there are no major backlogs. We also have HEP, with HEP being much easier because they simply come and take out the fuse or separate the wires on the power column and then simply force someone without a lawyer and without a trial to pay for their debt. So this is what I consider to be some sort of initial, and that is why I support in the sense that this issue is being opened. I don't see any harm in it, but some kind of savings in that part of it, those who have to pay and don't have to pay for these huge fees for lawyers and court costs. However, this issue, not only about this issue, but about HEP and Croatian forests, about everything that is holding this country back, makes it a real cost for our citizens to slow down cities and municipalities for their further development and better organisation, I think there will be speeches in this council's assembly because it simply has to be because we have come to this situation that we can no longer simply allow ourselves to have some director have three times the salary of a prime minister or a minister and that in this way we are talking here. So this is a good step towards something much bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u934	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u935	My dear colleague, I agree with you on the transparency of the director of public enterprises or public institutions, state-owned enterprises or public institutions, but I also believe that you will agree with me that the height of the salary should not in itself be a problem. In other words, if we decide to give someone the status of manager in a state-owned company or in a public institution, then we're going to reward them. But that there is a competent system of control that will justify that height of pay. And unfortunately, that's not the case. It is not even the case when the pay level is determined and how people determine it for themselves or how it is with the control system. And you're right about that. And we, on the other hand, need to act as legislator, especially the founder, to take some kind of measure. As far as HRT is concerned, I'll only say this much for this opportunity so I don't get too far away from the subject. HRT with an outsourcing system destroys itself. And it's not only in charge of demand for collection and similar, but in production of programs and the use of technology and technology services, destroying its own capacities, destroying its own possibilities over the years. And it actually leads to the fact that then more and more depends on the state budget and more and more on this, so on the fees that are received per month and less on the basis of their own programmes and their own profits. And that's true. We should discuss it here. And as for this initial idea, I don't reject it, but you'll agree with me to practice law-making should be done somewhere else, not in the gym.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u936	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u937	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you said that the costs would be reduced by the effects of this law. I'd like to actually say that we don't know if it's going to happen or not. In fact, there is no fiscal impact assessment in the draft of this law. That's something we actually talked about today on the Media Committee but that's a fact. In fact, since the HRT budget has been allocated from the Treasury we, of course, will not be affected by the state budget, but at this point with this text of the law, we do not know simply what the effects on the HRT budget will be. It's possible they'll shrink like you said. We can guess about that given the different calculations, some numbers are displayed here today. But actually, like a colleague from HDZ just said, if we don't know the information about the salary of the executive, then on HRT, in a much larger fog, we also have an idea of how much and whether the cost of HRT will be reduced if it goes on its own. So here's just one comment on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u938	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Glavasevic, on the basis of this solution, should not reduce income, and that is what is positive in this proposal for a proposal from the HRT. So their incomes shouldn't be reduced. However, the key question is why the HRT needed the Parliament's legislative initiative in order to do what it could do on its own, which was spoken of by counterpart Hrelja here. In other words, when and how and who on HRT decided to charge compensation or fees for HRT monthly offers by going through a complex system of notebooks, law offices and I don't know what else significantly collects the whole thing for both HRT and collects especially for those most concerned. That's the key question. All right, if it's agreed on for us here to discuss it and see how we can get things back and that, at the same time that we've already set out this way by respecting the promoter to correct everything we need to correct so that we don't have the risk of this bill falling in a place where we shouldn't fall and not being brought down by those who have more power than the Croatian Parliament and the average Croatian representative. That's the point. ...to show institutional maturity that we have institutional power and that our laws are stronger than they are right now at this stage of the proposal. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u940	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u941	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I find it inappropriate and embarrassing for the Croatian bar to press this debate in the sense that they will press charges and bring down the law itself if it is passed. Today we read a big interview with Mr. Robert Travis, the president of the Croatian Bar of Law, for which I have honestly not heard or heard of today, because he has never actually said anything for the benefit of the citizens, so if he has not spoken until now, let him not speak any further, let him not be ashamed of it. If he already wants to say something about lawsuits and mistreatments, then I suggest he proceed with the case of Mr. Ante Vrankovic of Zeline who began the hunger strike on September 13th to death and is now 35 days. He expects the Croatian Bar Association to do something, but it has not done anything until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u942	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u943	Dear colleague, we are one of the institutions in this country, the Supreme Legislative Institution. But there are others. The Croatian bar of attorney is one of the institutions, it has its own interests, its rights and its sighting of things and we cannot take away their right to see things right or defend them in ways they do not think they should defend. But what is our job as a representative in the Croatian Parliament is to pass sustainable laws, to pass laws that will not be at risk of being torn down by someone who is normative or any procedural weakness. It's the meaning of what we've discussed here since we've seen risks in this proposal in normative weakness. The procedural weakness is that we are in too much of a hurry and I call for us to slow down a bit and look at things from all sides to make a quality solution. We didn't have a habit, let no one object again, we got, and we have a debate on the law whose parent body is the Media and Information Committee. When was the Media and Information Committee elected? Yesterday. Is it necessary that we do it so quickly? It's not. Would it be wiser if this law had been passed by the Committee on the Law of the Government and then that the Committee on the Law of the Government had looked for its own part? It would be of course and of course the Media Committee. So this is how we've been working under some kind of pressure now that we've taken this first step and we have more experience and we have more knowledge, we're calling for a little colder head with a little more patience and with less haste to approach things. Nothing more, and with respect to the basic initiative of our colleagues from the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u944	Thank you very much. And the latest replica of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u945	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I fully respect an esteemed colleague and what he's saying, but I agree with that, and I want to refer to two things that you mentioned in your debate. This is what I have been referring to from the beginning and what it all started out with is a very, very complex topic that requires a broader discussion, and my colleague said that he requires a serious debate in this esteemed House and, of course, in that sense, I agree and the topic is so much more current, so much worse to see from the number of individual debates reported and from the number of clubs. And the other thing that my colleague mentioned, which I want to refer to metaphorically, is this food chain on HRT. And I think that would be a good category of forensic accountant that actually determines the origin of the property and that's something that's very necessary. Because if we've been following this issue a little longer, maybe a lot of people don't know, but if Director Mirko Galic of the BBC's expert group mentioned the BBC again, he's ordered a motion to reconstruct the HRT. And many were surprised then that the expert group had concluded, and the expert group concluded that HRT believed or could not work with 700 employees. And now let's take these numbers into account the current number of employees, I'm not relevant to the scale of their assessment, but if it's one expert body of the BBC, then I guess that number still has a certain weight. Unfortunately, this restructuring plan was never implemented but was just going in the opposite direction, so it was reportedly invested in the programme, and it was actually entering certain credit engagements that later proved to be long-term harmful. The following director has partially reduced these credit engagements, but the restructuring has not yet been implemented. So what's the resume? The summary is that a comprehensive debate about HRT because we pulled a thread today, and I would metaphorically say that HRT is a bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u946	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u947	Dear colleagues, thank you for your comments, thank you for your suggestions, especially for considering that the issue of HRT is a public institution that hangs on the thread. It's only a matter of time before that thread breaks and that institution breaks. It's no longer to be collected. One of the reasons why this is happening is our behaviour as a representative of political parties here in this high house and in Croatian political life. We HRT may see more than some other public institutions as prey politically and wait for every election cycle when we can take control. Not how we're going to professionalize HRT, not how we're going to make it run financially in accordance with the rules and in accordance with HRT's interest as a public service, but actually watch it be prey, either on the left or on the right. And for two reasons, that we impose our ideological and political criteria and on the other hand, that we be the ones who will master the program. It's unfortunately a bad picture and a bad condition. And in this way, we will contribute to the destruction of HRT regardless of these decent initiatives that come from our colleagues. And if we don't stop it, the HRT will live another time and then it's only a matter of days after that when it collapses what many people want anyway. What many people want anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u948	Next, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u949	Thank you, dear Vice President. For 16 years, I've been a representative in this House. And in those 16 years, I've seen all sorts of legal proposals, but honestly, I can't remember seeing a more superficial and less basic proposal in those 16 years, not only when it comes to HRT, but when it comes to any legal proposal at all. In those 16 years, there's been a debate about HRT many times. Several amendments to the law, all governments and SDPs and HDZ, and at the time that Mesic was a minister, we sought to preserve the HRT and improve it. We've made a public institution out of it, we've completely raised the hands of politicians and politicians from it, and we've established after that with grief, regretting that we've made a mistake. Why? Because they freed the policies, there in the programme council set up a political party and announced that they were going to the elections. They were politicizing themselves when we depolitized them. We had to leave that road, go back, I wasn't happy about it. But now, according to the current law, that television is no longer public television, it has become state television, but well, that's the concept we chose. Why did she become state television? Well, because the Chief Director is choosing this Parliament on a government proposal, as are elected by top people from all state-owned companies. It's a fee. What's the fee for anyway? The fee is one parafiscal charge and must be paid by all because it comes from the assumption that the fee is paid not by those who watch the programme but by those who own the device in order to possibly watch it. And what device is that? Each. Cell phone, smartphone is also a device where you can watch HRT. So there's no one who's been released from paying the parafiscal charge. And why was the fee introduced? So to ensure home independence because then the house doesn't have to go to the government for money, it's not up to the government then, it's getting money from the citizens, directly. That's why it's called a tax. And now instead of starting to think about the situation where HRT is and he's always in a bad situation, he's never been in a good situation, I don't remember being in a good place, starting to think about how to help him. Should we then leave the fee and let HRT be financed from the fissus? And now all the citizens are paying for it. So all citizens pay taxes. We're getting closer to one problem, but it's extremely casual. The basis for this law is notice and nothing more than observe. And that's that if someone owes 6 fees, 480 kunas, then they'll pay not 480 or 500 kuna but 1480 kuna on the basis of the exercise. Is that fair? It's not. Is that a good thing? It's not. Is that supposed to change? Well, you should. Well, that certainly isn't a good solution, but the way you're going to fix it is God save me. So just that direct observation, there's not a single analysis, there's no idea how big they are, there's a rumor that there's some kind of reduction in the profit of public records and law offices and that's the problem. You haven't even done that analysis, you don't even know how much it is. That's not as much as you think. It's 60 kunas of solution and 30 kuna of surface clause. That's 90 kuna. That's 10 kuna less than you predict that HRT is now charging each executive. Then why these other costs, then where did these increased costs come from? It's VAT and it's public record fees. If we cancel this, there's no VAT, there's no public taxis, there's no budget revenue. Okay, it doesn't have to be. Why should the budget be fed to these perpetrators? I'm not for him to feed, but don't write it in an explanation then, there's no consequence of the state budget. There, there, the main concerns the state budget, so much will be in the state budget less. Well, I'm not about to make it any less, but I'm against it coming with a legal proposal and the proposer doesn't know anything about it. He only knows the first step, and that seems good enough and good enough. And it's not good enough and it's not good enough. One of the reasons why this difference between the amount to be executed and the sum to be paid is the limitation period of one year in the case of a fee. So the HRT makes the earliest after three unpaid fees, and no later than six, it goes into effect because it will be late, it will go into oblivion. To extend that period to 3 years as much as any of these payments are then this difference between the amount made and the final amount paid by the perpetrator would be significantly less. That it's not 480 kuna, it's 4800 kuna, and that means if someone keeps not paying, I won't. The Law on Mandatory Relations should then be amended. And that's one of the paths that needs to be discussed, but not to discuss Tuesday from 11 to 5 how much we're going to discuss, but to debate it thoroughly. A good purpose will not be achieved, the number of charges will not be reduced, the price of non-payments will be reduced, this will be reduced and what will be the result? There will be an incentive for non-payment of the fee. So I've been a little afraid by now that I'm going to have to pay a lot of money even though I'm not paying my fee, now that fear disappears if this law passes. So why would he pay the fee? I'll pay every five times, they won't do me, and if they do me how much I'm going to be fined 100 kunas, it's very important 100 kunas. Citizens receive bills for electricity, gas, etc. for the fee. Well, first they'll pay for electricity and gas, why? Well, there's no connection with electricity, so they come and unplug you. That's your job. You don't have electricity. You're gas-refused. You don't have gas. And with that fee gone, no one's gonna take off your antenna, no one can break your signal, no one. Therefore, the citizens you claim to be on whose behalf you pass this law that you claim to be poor and are. The first thing they'll stop paying is a fee. And the number of those you have to go to will increase significantly. That'll be the final result. I don't know how you didn't think about it. But when laws are passed then you have to think conjectures, not just the first step, the tenth step you have to see. You're saying there won't be any increased costs for HRT? How do you know it won't be? How do you know? Where's your data in the explanation? You wrote won't be who you wrote that there won't be consequences for fiscus, so no matter what you write. And it will be. I talked to the HRT people, they say well-meaningly, they say we will enforce the law that you bring to the Parliament. Well, of course they're gonna spend it, but they're gonna have to hire at least 30 new people. But then write will have to hire at least 30 people to know what laws we're making. So we're ready to take that responsibility. If they have to hire new people to hire them. If that's what we're gonna do to help the citizens, we're gonna help them. Well, that's where we all intend to do the same thing, but don't make any false assumptions about proposing laws written in 2.5 hours without any analysis because that's not good, you didn't start well at this little minute. This law was supposed to be the fulfillment of one of the MOST guarantees, one of the seven guarantees. Big reform law, one of the guarantees. What's the guarantee? The guarantee was that you would reduce the fee, thank God you didn't write that law yet to reduce the fee, so to speak, in the seven minutes you've devoted to this. Because a reduction in the fee as you said, my colleague Bulj today speaks to 65, page 80 to 65 kuna, it's less than 227 million kuna. This does not question the production of HRT programmes, but the production of Croatian films, the last of which are awarded world awards. So was that what you thought? So are you going to destroy everything just to fulfill some kind of guarantee that you haven't thought about in three seconds? And besides, you don't meet that guarantee at all, what you boasted, that in the election campaign you said you didn't bring it to the table today. You brought something completely different and completely lame. Are you going to do HRT? I invite you to do business. We deal with each other. When we worked together, we had some results. You've already had a chance to start dealing with HRT today, a meeting of the Media Committee was held today. HRT doesn't have a director. So why didn't you start the selection process and at least V.D. because that's what this is about on the Media Committee. Well, you don't care at all that HRT doesn't have a director. You don't do that. Well, if you'd said that at least you understood, then bring the principal in as soon as possible to sort out the situation in that house. Well, no, well, there's a time when it's a turn. You should've liked it. This is what you want. I understand that, I'm a politician, I understand that politicians and parties will like citizens. That's quite clear to me. But you chose the wrong path. You guys didn't like each other, you might actually have accidentally embarrassed yourself. Don't come here with such proposals to the poor anymore. Ask if you are, look, you are now getting into the work of the bar and the public records chamber. Did you consult them? Well, MOST was full of promises that nothing would work the way politics normally does on its own without consulting the public. The waist, the waist, the waist. You kept saying that. So did you ask them? You asked them and they told you this was good. They told you this was good? I doubt it. I read today's interview with the president of the bar. He says you didn't consult him or the chamber. I'm supposed to trust you now, Mr. Grmoy or the president of the bar. Something makes me trust him more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u950	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u951	Thank you very much, dear fellow Stazic. I'm pleased you've admitted to the state of HTV, but for all I know, you've been in the Parliament for 25 years, and for a time in the ruling majority, you've been as familiar with the fact and the executive law that's really incorrigible. We have today an executive law that simply with small changes can be very difficult to fix, and these laws that are now in force and you have participated here in the debates and sometimes as part of most you have made such chaos not only on HTV but in the entire Executive Law that no one knows where it is anymore. That's how it is on TV. You're talking about HRT movies, and you could say here during your reign how many external productions, bad categories, I don't know which soap opera, can be Turkish, Mexican, absolutely irrelevant. Did you do something at the time or did you bring public service to be well said, party party service to either left or right. That's what you said very moderately, but thank you very much for confessing. This proposal was a profession with all faults and mistakes. I expected you to say 50 million kuna in the first debate, however, will remain in the pockets of citizens who will increase consumption. Because these people with those 50 million kunas will buy, they won't create empires for one individual or for two, three go. In 25 years of HRT is the state of what it is and thank you, thank you very much for admitting that you have sat in this House for the past 25 years and that this is the state of HTV. Once again, I thank Mr. Stazic for his constructiveity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u952	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u953	First of all, I'm not 25 in the Parliament, but 16 of what I said here, obviously you didn't listen to me. I'm talking about this law, and you're talking about executives. Well, wait, let's figure out a topic, so then I'll talk about the Executive Act when you're already replicating me to the Executive Act. I wasn't talking about HRT movies. I was talking about movies. Don't throw fellow Bull! Leave it there for, you're in the Parliament. I was talking about a Croatian film, which is financed among other things and from the charge of HRT through.../The speaker does not understand. And you say that 50 million kunas will remain under this law in the pockets of citizens, not in the pockets of all citizens of fellow Bulls. Most of them are the poorest ones who pay this fee regularly, regularly. It will remain in the pockets of those who do not pay the fee for a variety of reasons. I've heard that one of the motives for MOST proposing this law is that some of the parliamentary representatives of MOST have personal experience in non-payment of fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u954	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u955	Dear colleague Stazić, I agree most of the time with your debate. I would just like to add one story to you when you were, in detail, discussing the statute of limitations. I don't think the executive papers and payment orders are the same institute, or they could possibly be if, under the bill of law, HRT says it's going to be an executive document. But there's a significant difference in blocking the limitation period. Namely, if an application procedure is initiated, the limitation period shall be interrupted, and if we have a payment order, the limitation period shall continue to run. The question, therefore, is how much savings there will be and the question is whether what needs to be charged will be billable at the end of this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u956	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u957	Well, there's a lot of questions. And this is what you've brought out now. The question of whether a public institution can even do such a performance, a forced charge. Well, that's a big question. Well, the issue needs to be discussed with constitutional and legal experts, not with Mir Bul. Because otherwise, we'll come up with the strangest possible solutions. But then it will fall upon the burden of all of us, and here's that incompetent Parliament you see the laws it has passed. But we also want to help colleagues from the Most and colleagues of Bull to understand that and not to crash another time, not to be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u958	The next replica will be her esteemed representative, Mark Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u959	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, Stazic, you said that you were not interested in reducing the TV subscription. Your colleague Davor Bernardić pointed out in his debate that it was actually a lack of that law. Well, here I'd just like you to make a statement on behalf of the club so there are no dissonant tones in the SDP so you can agree on that. Do you want to cut your TV subscription or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u960	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u961	In our campaign, we said we were for reviewing the tax model. Which means that model needs to be considered. And at the pay phone I told one of the resolutions was that she was abolished and that the funding moved on to... One of the solutions. [[You don't understand.]] That's what we need to discuss. But we're not going to offer any of these solutions like this. It's the only thing that we've been thinking about for 7.5 minutes, and we know it's the right thing to do. No, because that's not how solutions are made. It can only make things worse and complicated. The fee, as I explained to you, was a parafiscal charge that was supposed to enable public television. If we have moved from public television to the concept of state television, then it is legitimate to consider the concept of tax even as a means of financing. Or to find some other model if we're not lucky with this and this model produces unwanted effects. And none of us want to produce side effects, none of us. Yeah, for example. I don't want the pensioners to pay 80 kuna as orderly pay without the MPs paying 80 kuna so they can fall into service and then propose laws against it, I'm not for it. I'm here to sort this out systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u962	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u963	Thank you very much. In your debate, my colleague, you have been undersold by doubt, and so you have several times acted as if this law did not make a difference, that there is a lot of inadequacy and that you are praying for MOST not to send such laws to the Croatian Parliament in the future because in the end we all have a responsibility when we adopt something that is illogical, which is difficult to implement and that there is basically no other purpose other than to create the impression that MOST has set some conditions that will dramatically change the life of our citizens from tomorrow onward. It is especially interesting that someone claims that 50 million kunas will remain in the pockets of those who are due tomorrow to be completed. Well, I guess if people had that money, then they'd pay, they wouldn't wait for it to be done. So it's impossible to keep someone's money in a pocket they don't have. On the other hand, it may also be written in the explanation that there may be a reason not to be in debt anymore. That makes sense, fellow Stazic. Not leave them with money they don't have in their pocket. And that is why he would agree with you and ask for the solution that has been proposed by his colleague Pupovac in his debate to find a way to help citizens who do not have the money to settle, and the social conditions are such as to subscribe to the radio-television subscription and thus to propose certain laws. That would be a useful suggestion for Mr. Bull to keep some money in his pocket. Not to stay in his pocket unless he's gone because that's not possible. So I agree with you that these laws should not be referred to, and especially not to create the impression that something is done and nothing is done at all or even technically. When you look at the amount of text and effort that has been put into this law, someone probably wrote it in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u964	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u965	Well, of course, no money will stay in the pocket of any citizen because even now that the execution goes through the public record offices and through the law offices, it's impossible to charge for everything. Why? Well, you're right to say there's nothing to be done about. These people don't have any other accounts, there's nothing to be done about. And there is no charge for all that is sought to be charged. HRT will succeed even less under this law than public record offices do. Therefore, no one will be left with that money. That's one floscule we're going to help the citizens. You're not gonna help anybody with this. This just makes things complicated. We need to find a way, a model, together and it invites you to find a way and a model that those citizens who don't have a fee, and I can't cancel it, can't because they have at least a transistor over which they listen to the radio, because there's a device so they'll tell him you can't cancel the fee, you have to pay the fee to watch or not watch, you have a device adequate or you don't have to pay it. So let's help them by looking for a co-financing model, some sort of substitute financing or some other concept of a TV fee. But not this, not this, this is pathetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u966	And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Ivica Music, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u967	Dear Mr. Stazic, in your debate, you said that you were 16 years in the House, so I don't know how it could have come to this when you've been so long that so far you haven't done a serious review of television, which I think it would be necessary to do a serious review of television and only then go into law enforcement and law-making and go to the hands of the citizens. However, I feel that I have spent so many years in the Parliament, not just you and everyone else, that you have so far not prepared this fine law and that our citizens may be pleased with you. There wouldn't be 180 thousand people here today who can't pay for this guilt, and I don't think we can, even though I think what MOST is doing is pulsing, who wants to make it at one speed that you've said since seven minutes to pass the law, I also think it's fast. To do a good review and make a single television strategy, but that's one long way to go, and on that road I hope we should start and start in that part of the realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u968	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u969	Your question is logical, but it stems from the fact that you probably didn't follow Parliament's work in those 16 years. No revision was performed, no attempts were made. At least five as many as I can think of, changes and additions and brand-new HRT laws. I can assure you of those made by the government of Mr. Racan when Vujic was a minister and worked by the HDZ government, I don't know who was prime minister, I know that then the culture minister was Jasen Mesic. I know there's been a serious debate. In this House it was serious about the Law on HRT, on several versions of the law, always with the desire of both sides to find the best solution for HRT. That solution now let me, it's not the worst, it's not the worst now, and it would have been fixed. The first thing that should be done is take responsibility for the ruling to choose the bar of the vd as soon as possible and start working systematically. A new law would also be passed, or this little repair, to be restored, and this problem will be solved as part of that repair. But we won't get anywhere if we approach the HRT problem as the MOSTs have now joined. Well, you can see that the HDZ didn't want any part of it, so they didn't follow. They let them go on vertometics, come on, embarrass yourselves, we won't save you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u970	Thank you very much. Now he would give the word to the next club of MPs, which is the representative of the Live Wall of the Alphabet democracy representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go. At the same time, I have to correct my colleague, Stazic, and he said we'd be here by five o'clock, and by my account, nine o'clock, there's nothing we can do if we continue at that pace or later. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u971	Thank you, President Reiner. Dear colleagues and colleagues. If Croatia needs public television, we'll all agree it should. However, the fundamental question that should be asked is whether HRT is public television? Is she serving citizens or is she actually a spokesman for certain ideas and certain ideologies? From observing the program or content that this television has produced in recent years, I can say a few words. On state television, opinions and attitudes that the EU is propagating are exclusively advocated. There was no critical position on the EU, although it was obliged to give both sides even space during the EU referendum, the state television they call publically did not do so. On the contrary, propaganda was one-sided, there was talk of not knowing if everyone remembered, there were promotional spots where they explained that people's power would continue to slaughter animals and roast brandy, etc., mainly that were literally stupiding our citizens. They also said that we will be open to the whole EU market, but what we see is that we cannot survive on our own market, let alone on the side. Respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, not only that, HDZ has not allowed a single show to discuss the height and method of gathering of RT television subscription. It is absurd and regrettable that in 2016, we in the Assembly are talking about a RTV subscription or a way of collecting it as a serious problem that needs to be addressed. Often, we from the Living Wall have appealed to HRT to touch this topic, to have a public debate because public debate is the basis of something called public television. However, no debate on whether Hanžekovic could crush millions on the poor or on those TV subscribers has ever been. Apparently, if we weren't here today, we wouldn't be talking about it today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what Hanžekovic is doing to the victims or Croatian subscribers is bordering on common sense. Taking a thousand kuna for 80 kuna or 160 kuna is a public and a great shame. This man, Marijan Hanžeković, through his messages systematically muds and pollutes our media space. The same person is also protected by HRT. So whoever criticizes Hanžekovic or TV subscription couldn't get media space. I remember, although I was a young man, that there were a lot of initiatives to lift the TV subscription, hundreds of thousands of signatures were collected, many articles were written on the subject, none had ever reached HRT. Is that in the spirit of democracy? Is this in the spirit of the right to an opinion, that is, the diversity of opinion and the spirit of public debate? My deep belief is that it isn't. The same thing, the way state television reports conflicts in the world means in Ukraine, Syria about Palestine is not at all spoken of by respected ladies and gentlemen. Every day the Israeli army and the police there kill people and kidnap the Palestinian land. That's where the property is confiscated. Children who are 5 years old are detained and Israel is the only country in the world that holds children in military prisons. There is no debate on such topics on national television. For our state television, the main villain is Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. What a farce that is, I will only mention the 2011 example when I led a protest against colleagues who are now standing on my right. Then a thousand of us protested in front of the state television building, or 2,000 against censorship on HRT. And what happened? I'm coming home and I expect HRT to mention it. However, the Croatian HRT says the following news. Today, 2,000 protesters were in the Syrian city of Homs against the Bashar al-Assad regime. But on that same day, 2000 protesters against HDZ's criminal regime were not seen by state television. That's what this TV is all about. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u972	My colleague Pernar,... Like this, slowly, first of all, my colleague Glasnović, please don't yell from the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pernar, you are insulting a parliamentary party which is rude and unacceptable in the Parliament. And second of all, you're completely off the subject. I beg you to stick to the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u973	I'll do my best. Thank you. I'd like to say that I've been arrested and detained by HDZ authorities countless times. State television never gave me a word to speak or defend myself. I was systematically attacked by that media in the service of government. I therefore believe that, in terms of internal policy, our state television did not serve the public interest but rather the private interest of individuals who had switched public and general interest with their private. For this reason, as well as from a view of foreign policy where a NATO pact is promoted as an organisation that spreads peace, security and love around the world while in reality it deals with bombings, killings and occupations of the disobedient countries. So this NATO organisation on the part of state television shows the minority as humanitarian and their aggressive conquest wars with the aim of controlling world resources are being portrayed as actions to liberate and spread democracy. Such a amount of propaganda, such a amount of political protection, means certain parties, we have never had a chance to see so far in recent history. Let's just mention the past elections, each day's HRT started with only one news and only one party. Every journal started with HDZ news as if the world revolves around the party for all of us. Many, unfortunately, when I remember being at the homeless meeting, said that until HDZ came to power, the problem of homelessness said, they actually said it wasn't in these places or existed. These are all ladies and gentlemen of the facts and reasons why I believe HTV does not play the role of public television and therefore the TV subscription should be suspended immediately and state television reformed as a service. If it will be party television in the service of the ruling party regardless of what it was then it would be logical for that ruling party to also finance that television, not taxpayers or all citizens, if it means it does not reflect different opinions but only the opinions of one political party. If there is ever a reform of HRT, I think that at least one out of four programmes should get opposition because it is not normal for the ruling regime to control literally all channels and thus program people's minds and tell them that although everyone sees that the situation is a disaster that is all right and there is no problem. And one more thing, about a law enforcement that allows for an unprecedented robbery, an unprecedented amount of debate almost gone and the conversants are often relevant. Only recently, or the other day for the first time in five years of my political activity was I able to get space on the show Open where I was talking about the Executive Law. And not to mention that he was trying to create a false illusion that the Living Wall didn't save anyone from dejection and that everyone that the Living Wall defended was eventually decommissioned. The truth is vice versa, the state television only gave media space to those actions that were violently carried out and the other actions where we successfully defended the home did not get media space. Also, the issue of secret actions was not of interest to the HRT gentlemen as well as to the question, I repeat, but to the separation of the system in the hands of Mr. Marijan Hanžekovic, who turned thousands of families into black. The facts are as they are, the fact is that we consider the dispute not only means the system of payment as it has been so far but we consider the TV subscription itself to be disputed and as such. Because I repeat HTV, unfortunately it's not public television, but only the opinions of Washington, Biselle and the Ban Courts are heard there. Opinions of citizens who dig through the trash, waiting in line for the soup kitchen or Croatian defender Mirko Dukic, who tomorrow at 10 o'clock at the address of St. The spirit of the 8th is awaiting a raid by order of a foreign savings-credit organization, the opinions of these people cannot be heard. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to all of you, especially those who have the majority to change something about this because only if this state television is reformed can I expect citizens to accept the obligation to pay for a TV subscription. Note that many citizens just as an act of political revolt because of programs and content do not want to see or pay for a TV subscription. And if that were so clear, it's from a central diary that's never had a lower level of view. It is saddened when private television has more ratings than a state that has much more resources available and 10 times more employees. He says a minimum of ten times because three thousand official employees get at least as many so-called. external associates. I believe that the receipts and privileges of the director of HRT and the caste that leads to this are too large and should be reduced. Because it is not appropriate that something that is a public service and for which people have to force themselves out of their miserable salaries and pensions or social benefits to crush a fortune on it. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am truly convinced that things can change, and this time I invite all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to resist national television in a way that will cancel the TV subscription. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I don't pay a subscription to state television and I never reported a TV device. I also urge you to log out your TV receivers and thus show what you think of their propaganda, censorship and brainwashing policy for the past 20 years. Dear citizens, you are the ones who finance this evil with your money, you are the dear citizens who allow you to be reported as subscribers to execute you until yesterday, and from tomorrow on, it will be directly HRT. He'll take the money off your bank account. He'll pick you up like a chicken. Don't give them that privilege. Dear citizens, you may think you're alone, but most of you I'm sure thinkin' just like me. Please don't be cowards, don't be afraid of them because there are more of us than they are. And keep in mind that every kuna you pay to HRT you support the continuation of the current state of mind pollution rather than the clearness of the mind. A situation in which propaganda is spreading rather than facts, a state where a political party monopolizes means state television for its narrow party interests while distorting reality. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm a young man, I'm not old and I don't remember what it was like in Joseph Broz Tito's day, but I'm sure Joseph Broz Tito and that one-party regime didn't have as much media space in the diary as HDZ today. Each contribution begins and ends, or every journal with the HDZ news. Gentlemen of the HDZ if you want to do party TV, make HDZ TV, let the transmitters give you the frequency, pay the concession, you have God's dear 40 million kunas a year from Croatian citizens, they have no choice whether they want to give you that money or not. And then broadcast your program like you used to give Karamark, or what we used to have to watch Karamark. Then please broadcast there Mr. Plenkovic and release public television for public interest, that is, what the citizens are interested in, and believe me, I am not interested in the news from your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u974	Thank you. Since you and your colleague Pernar were saying things from Homes to everything that had nothing to do with the subject, a large number of colleagues appeared to be replicating you. So we'll take the turn. First came the honorary colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u975	So here's why Croatia can't go forward, dear President of the Parliament, colleagues. This hasn't been heard from the Central Committee. But when we talk about brainwashing, I'd like to point out to Mr. Pernar that this is the only country where no lighting, lustration has been done. There was your head of Bjelovarska OZA there recently, no one said anything and were primarily not NATO, the EU was leading the HRT, but the former... that damaged the state, in fact, the state television for millions of kunas with illegal cancellations, etc. I know that some people don't have the money to pay the fee, this is a good topic, and it's a very good topic, because HRT is the microcosm that's the state today. Like this, I'd ask Mr. Pernar here if he knows how much income tax is? 1.2 billion kuna per year, of which 4% goes to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, which takes care of cinemas in Belgrade, etc. etc. And there is still cultural Marxism and e... at all levels. How many times are we going to watch documentary films about Mr. Mao Ce-tung, Che Guevara, etc. If our problem were the EU, if the Germans were here right now they wouldn't have the state we have today. Germany was totally destroyed in World War II, it lost a third of its territory, it's in 20 years, it's economic power today, and we're discussing a television that we haven't set up today. What kind of state is that? By all elements, I'd say HRT Guatemala is a town on Sava because it's run by the same frames that led her to the 90s, etc. That's why we're where we are. When are we going to hear in the debate, a debate about the legal system in Croatia? Which is exactly the legacy from the former SFRY system. And that's why we can't go forward, the same frames, the same mental set, and that's why we are where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u976	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u977	This was so interesting that I almost forgot what it was like to be a replica. Dear colleague Pernar, it is our duty to send our message or our words, to criticise those outside of this home who we consider to be responsible for the violation of legality, for the endangerment of institutions or for the abuse of what can be used in public institutions such as Croatian public television. And you mentioned some people and some names here. However, it is our job, as each of us, to first go on our own. And where is actually our responsibility in this matter, no matter what I've done with a series of things like I've already said, I don't agree with the MOST initiative, but I appreciate it because they came from something. It's not the best way, but they came from something. And we, therefore, have to go from ourselves because most of the difficulties that we are discussing actually took place by some of us, who, in conjunction with some of the people on HRT, have made this possible, what we are discussing today. And We are discussing the consequences, and we are not discussing the causes and the actors that led to this. And that's the problem, and we have to change that. That's our job.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u978	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u979	Very short. My colleague Pernar I hope that this bad practice will change immediately and on Croatian television will actually record one show only about you. I believe that all colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community, and I believe that they will also support it from other clubs. So, two hours in prime time just about you for all the ideas you have. And to get out of the EU, and to get out of NATO, and to the problem of Israel and everything else that you have stated. And the moment you get enough time, then we'll ask you to leave us alone for a few days, and if that's not possible again, then we'll ask you to leave us alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u980	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u981	Gentlemen of the HDZ, I'm asking you, is it normal for state television to carry your election assembly for four hours where one of your party's candidates is? Is this a job of state television or is this really about brainwashing and building a cult of personality? Gentlemen of the HDZ, I think the time has come for democratic reforms to come to our country. What you've been doing all this time with state television had nothing to do with democracy or common sense. On the contrary, it was an insult to the mind, pollution of the media space, and in fact a robbery of citizens through the fact that HRT, a law firm to which HRT handed over TV subscribers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u982	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u983	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar, I listened to your debate. I'd like to refer to one detail. You were mostly talking about the information program of HRT. Let's agree there's really a gap, there's a grandeur of certain politicians. Is it because of all kinds of influences I don't know if it's about funding and I don't know. But the function of public television isn't just an information program. So she has a lot of other functions that you haven't mentioned at all and you don't need to ignore her influence. Let's just say educational content, minority content, a variety of documentary programs. So public television has a broad function. Whether he's doing it or not is now another topic, one question. But what I'd like to warn you, I think it is, however, 96% of the taxpayers pay the TV fee. So, the big majority. You've invited people here not to pay a TV fee and I consider it an impact on the independence of public television. I also think of the proposal that, that the colleagues of MOSTA might have been reluctant to send, so they gave up, about reducing the TV fee, and that's the pressure on public television. So we don't have to play with these things. Because if we're proposing a reduction today, then on public television, they're afraid we're gonna do it, so here in the Parliament, we're gonna give up. Then they say thank God, look, they've given up, and we're still going to pet them. So public television must be the service of citizens. If she isn't today, we must do everything, of course, within our powers, for MPs to try and not call for an end to public television. Because I don't think that's a good solution, because commercial television will never fulfill that public TV assignment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u984	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u985	Dear Sir of the SDP, you say that you mention the information program. There's only a disinformation program on HRT. There is no information program, that is, in the disinformation service. The other thing is, you're saying what television should be. I agree that she should be a lot of things she's not, and I'm not asking to cancel a TV subscription because of what she's supposed to be, but because of what she is. Also, the level of objectivity and level actually concealing all possible affairs, its possible crime that HDZ has committed in the last 25 years, where their party's president has even been in prison. Despite all this and all that past, we've had elections that HDZ won, and that's all telling you about the role of state television. The role of HRT is to make it possible for the people who threw us on our knees to get us to the end. And that's why I'm once again inviting all subscribers to cancel the TV subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u986	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u987	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I must say from your presentation, I've noticed that you've spoken mostly of your personal experiences from a personal perspective and very subjectively accusing everyone and everyone, and therefore without arguments, you have not contributed to the quality of work in this House. We all here actually have the greatest task of creating the best legislative framework and contributing to it. And not to call for contempt of the law and so publicly from the pay phone as you did a moment ago. In the debate, you did not essentially say anything about the amendment proposal and the addition of the law that we are just discussing, and therefore you did not contribute to the quality of the future legislative proposal, but you were in fact making pamphlets and most probably asking yourself out in the Dnevnik tonight. I do not dispute or want to challenge you, but I think that as a young representative, you would point out that perhaps in the future you should pay more attention to the very quality of the debate in this section relating to the legal proposal itself. It is certain that all those you have cited, and most of all you blame HDZ, are not responsible for what you have experienced and for your detentions, but for your behaviour that was contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia and you cannot in this way in this House through debate invite all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to disobey the laws of this country. You're talking about democracy and you're calling for anarchy. I don't think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u988	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u989	..../later included./... the time of the debate comes down to it from your side as far as I realized that the TV subscription should be paid, that this television and your party gatherings should be watched for hours and that you do not see anything controversial about it. And on your part, if I were in HDZ, I'd also defend HRT and TV subscription, and I'd say state television is doing great and there's no change there. I can understand your view. However, I'm not a HDZ representative here, I'm not here to represent the party that led people to the container, parties where people collide with heads in garbage containers, parties when I come here to the Parliament I crash with 15 beggars on the road. Ma'am, these are things you don't care about. These people don't have media space on your TV. And one more thing, yesterday a beggar told me that because she didn't have the money to pay for begging, she had to go to jail. Ma'am, that beggar you brought to the beggar stick went to jail, and your colleagues instead of in prison, they're sitting in another place. And as for the TV subscription, I once again appeal to all citizens to be unplugged from this simulated reality so that they don't watch state television programs and cancel their emergency TV subscription because each of their own kunas, every kuna they give you, are actually working against themselves and are committing crime against themselves and against their own children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u990	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted to react to Mr. Pernar's replica, but since you've already given him a kind of reply to the replica, he has defended himself. What I was about to say is that none of us here should violate the Rules of Procedure, Article 14. So we can have different views on the content of the discussions of individual colleagues and colleagues, but we must not as a colleague challenge the right of someone to express their opinion. Whether that is the right opinion or not will be judged by the citizens. It is the Rules of Procedure that define the way we communicate, and it is the President and Vice-Presidents of the Parliament who make sure that the debates run in democratic order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u992	Fellow Voter, this article you called on doesn't speak at all about it. So please don't abuse the institution. I know the Rules of Procedure very well. Article 14 does not speak at all. Therefore, I ask you and all colleagues, please do not abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure to express any opinion, whether someone agreed with you or disagreed. But it's not an institution to express its opinion. So, of course, no injured Rules of Procedure at all. Since everyone else has given up on replicas then of course we can move on to the next club of representatives, and this is the club of representatives of HDZ on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u993	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues start and end of this legislative proposal that really came quickly here to the constituency benches is that those people who didn't have the money to pay the subscription, so they went into the process of enforcement at the end of the pay less. And that's the moral and humane basis of this bill. If he could have gone into a better debate, that he could have been proposed in a more slow way, that he could have been even more reasoned and better done that is true. However, there is one added value, which is that indeed some people who, in the given living circumstances due to the bad situation in Croatia, who we know that it is bad, after the forced collection process they will exercise in accordance with the public authority of HRT, will pay less. So all the laws that are passed here in the Croatian Parliament or sorry, almost everyone, goes to someone's hand, someone less, and someone doesn't go to hand. This law goes to the hands of a team who didn't have any money. There are, however, laws in this Croatian Assembly that have not been used by anyone, such as amendments and additions to the 2012 HRT Act, but not to anyone. Instead of public service, we got state service, ratings fell, a series of issues were opened, etc., etc. What is interesting in the Croatian Parliament and I also remember for a long time the debate on HRT, so we don't have so many experts for any area, for either. It's almost like coming to the stadium, so of the 30,000 visitors you have 29 thousand potential team selectors. What's important to say about this bill is what I said in the first sentence. And like that idea, like that trend and like that claim by the legislator, the HDZ Club can support it. Now, HRT has a pick-up rate of about 95%, the fact is, given the amount of the subscription that 1 unscathed percent is about 11 or slightly more than a million kuna, 11 million kuna. The fact is that we have initiated many times here in the Croatian Parliament a debate about HRT with the desire for this debate to lead us further into the future. Of course, several times we've initiated a discussion about the media strategy, they'll remember colleagues who are already several mandates here, who we've never seen or welcomed, and she should go first. Today we're saying that this law does not provide for repercussion because on the... state budget and that you won't get a piece of VAT, exactly. But we also brought here strategies in the Croatian Parliament that wrote that they would have no effect on the state budget, which is of course total nonsense. Strategy and it's important, education, for example. There's been a lot of talk here about a subscription, but that respected colleague and colleague has nothing to do with this bill. It is a topic for another debate and about how much a subscription should be, how it should be, what all of it needs to be financed and where it should go in the future. In any case, whenever that debate comes, and it will come, the subscription won't be able to go to the state budget, because it's neither a state budget item nor a parafiscal imposition, it's so-called. indirect state support and as such cannot be state support and go to the budget because EU rules on non-compliance within the EU are then violated. So that's not possible. I also disagree that the subscription should not finance external production and should not be outsourced, it is very important. In addition, this is also a legal obligation, 15% of the funds must also be allocated to external production in the public service system in accordance with European standards. This foreign production aims not to be the only bearer of the creation of domestic audiovisual content, but to actually use this money as an investment asset that drives the domestic audiovisual industry. We hope in HDZ that we will talk about this once in the Croatian Parliament. We hope we don't listen to what kind of program it should be. You know when someone comes here for a pay phone to talk so says the program should be like that, then you actually realize that he has no idea what public service is, no idea. We had a chance and I say that every time I speak for the HDZ Club and I'll always say it. It is not true that the system set up in 2010 has failed because politicians have raised their hands. No, it's because we broke the law ourselves, and we didn't fill the seats in the Programme Council and the HRT Supervisory Board, and that's why they didn't work as such. Today, the situation is getting worse than we had back then, and then we could take a step further. The director's reports, so we also remember them here in the Croatian Parliament at least the last five times. We also remember the thematic sessions of the Media Committee. So we couldn't get you to answer our conclusions, and the director's reports were accepted. And there they rightly have those colleagues who say that someone is using HRT just for the sake of the information program and because that program is, at some point, a political combination. Of course it's a stranger, and of course that will eventually lead us to great problems. In the end, we really hope to have a meaningful debate about Croatia's broadcasting. You know why? Because today topics are about public media services in Europe are completely different. And that time will come. We are not at all talking about Digital Single Market, negotiations between the European Union and the United States on the full liberalisation of audiovisual systems and broadcasting. What kind of subscription? What HRT? So these new things and tendencies will wipe it off the face of the earth if we don't lay strategic groundwork on which to develop these services. Look at your children, see where they follow the contents, conduct a survey when you had, when you were elementary school kids how attached you were to HRT, see today... The information is going in a completely different direction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Times are also changed and no subscription and no call for violations of the law is made by the fact that the subscription will not be paid and no changes that will be in good faith towards Croatian citizens will prevent it unless we set ourselves up in the right sense. And that time is very close, very close. And it's as if we're having some discussion about whether the panel around the house should be blue or white, and there's already a flood in that house. Croatian broadcasting is one of the holders of cultural identity, no doubt. Any calls or reports that it's a party television or not a party television, they just don't stand. What it says is that HRT needs to go through a thorough restructuring, that HRT that celebrates its existence for many decades 60 years should be told where it sees itself in 10, 20 or 30 years, and so should we. And as far as this law is concerned, I'm going back to the first sentence, simply people who didn't have the money to pay the subscription due to the difficult living circumstances are ultimately paid less. If the law aims to help someone, this law has fulfilled its goal regardless of any shortcomings that opposition colleagues will be able to find. I say very rare are those laws that haven't helped anyone. Thank you very much, as I said the HDZ Club will support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u994	Thank you very much. Thank you especially for not mentioning various other lands than Israel, Palestine, for not even mentioning the former director, his villa, and the rest. I have to admit I'm amazed by the fact that instead of talking about the law, we're talking about programming principles, the information program, everything else and there's going to be opportunities because there's a point report, etc., etc. But we still have a series of replicas, so here he is, the first one is the distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mesic, I would first of all like to thank you for an extremely interesting debate. So really from what you said it is quite evident that you have one very, one really great competence and understanding of both topics and in the Croatian context and beyond. And I have to admit, in that light, it's terribly unclear to me so that the HDZ Representatives Club can support this proposal. Because I'm convinced and we had a chance to see it while you were the minister that you would never refer such bill to procedure. So if it were up to you, it certainly wouldn't look what it looks like. Here, I think I'm really sorry that you decided to support this and without in any way trying to do more to make this bill at least better. Because as counterpart Stazic said otherwise, by the way, be told when discussing the trust of the previous government said to you that you are a wonderful man, I think we might agree with but this here would, I am sorry that the club of HDZ representatives supports without any further comments or attempts to change and fix this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u996	Thank you very much. The next replica is an esteemed... But you didn't answer. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, let's do it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. ... You don't have to give me your word of honor. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u997	Dear fellow Glavasevic, we have tried very hard, but for the last 5.6 years, we have been very argumentative about this subject, very competent and very argumentative. I wish it had been noticed before. Unfortunately not. This is part of it. Unfortunately not. So we need to keep an eye on the debates and really learn something some time. We'll uphold the law for reasons I've tried to explain. So this law has the intensities to allow one group of our citizens to pass more cheaply because of the inability to pay. That's about who you get when you get a ticket, so he tells you if you pay in three days, you'll get through cheaper. In this context, too, this legal proposal should be seen because it seeks to make it easier for these people who have found themselves in this situation for a variety of reasons. Most of them because they didn't have any money. Because if it's 90 percent of the people that pay the subscription, then I really don't believe that these people did it on purpose, although there are those as we can see, but most of them because they were in financial trouble. The intensity of the bill promoter is in it. We see there a positive intensity, that the law goes into two readings, maybe some other things can be done, some things can be further explained, but that intensity should not be rejected. In the end, we end up making laws for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u998	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u999	Your Honor, again, it all comes down to some kind of information program and programming scheme, but I remind you it's a disinformation program. And here's just one example of this terrible manipulation that state television is doing. So our citizens still don't know it's 1948. 750 thousand Palestinians ethnically cleansed from the area of today's Israel have been deprived of all human and civil rights as well as their property has been confiscated. Because of the bias of our state television, our citizens don't know that information. And this is just one drop in the waterfall, meaning you're hiding information, what propaganda, what censorship. So when Mr. Glasnovic says that there's skis, I don't believe they're there, maybe they're gone anymore, but the methods... are on HRT, they're definitely alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1000	Thank you very much. Again, we failed to move away from Israel and Palestine. I don't know if you're going to answer that or about the subject. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1001	I tried to figure out what work my colleague Pernar was replicating. I'm not here as a lawyer for HRT's information program, and I don't want to be. But I know very well that HRT applies to Croatia. So much is true that HRT citizens trust more than representatives in the Croatian Parliament, more. Now, if you think a colleague should not pay a subscription you have the opportunity to propose a legal proposal, refer him to a parliamentary procedure in which the subscription is lifted. And it's your duty as a colleague if you think so. What you don't have is to invite citizens to break the law. You are the elected representative of the citizens, you are given a mandate on a particular political platform, you have your own declaring political idea and it is all legitimate and correct. On this basis you have received votes, based on your programme in which it is being abolished... please propose a law, please propose a law. Don't call on citizens to break the law and we swore we wouldn't do it. If you think the law is not good, you have all the possibilities, it only requires a little effort and patience to refer it to the parliamentary procedure and the law will then if most people want to change that way. If it won't change then you'll say it's us we've advocated, we've made a legal proposal, but most of us have rejected us, etc. But calling or groups of people to call criminal organizations doesn't lead a respected colleague anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1002	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Two things. Dear fellow Mesic, those who have done this law will not be helped. Those who will be asked whether we will be able to help with such solutions offered in this law. And if we don't change something until the second reading we won't be able to help them, we'll only get ourselves in further trouble because we've put unprepared into one of the best-meaning attempts that are not prepared properly in our performance. Another thing you'd like to say, you said outsourcing shouldn't be lifted. If that's what you meant by the outside production, then I agree with you. But outsourcing as a process of privatising public institutions and public enterprises absolutely not and especially not without supervision. Outsourcing as a procedure to be out of the house lobbying for private interests as it was lobbied in the case of this transfer to the law offices absolutely not. Outsourcing so that a private company is established out of the house and you work at your own company and then that this company can produce for its own house absolutely not. But that's what we have on HRT, and that's what we should be preventing. Just as we should prevent and prevent it from entering the information program under the company of external production, or from entering the information program under the company of the entertainment program from entering the information program, so that I do not now give you examples and we also have these over the past few months. So I agree with you that it's not our place to discuss the program, but ours is to discuss how it's managed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1004	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1005	So, dear colleague, I've been closely monitoring your exposure and you mentioned the word outsourcing during the external production. If you had said this like this, I wouldn't have mentioned it. You know very well that I mentioned and I watched you precisely because I think respecting that amount of external production funds is extremely important and it's actually investment capital that completely industry, the domestic industry of this type draws it forward. The bill goes through the law offices since 2003, 2004. The fact is, we have to say here, we all give ourselves criticism and say that we need to reflect this tendency that has been triggered by colleagues from MOST, hands on heart. So, the colleagues kind of put their finger on it first. Ha, are they the best in the most accurate place now, is it best prepared, should this be done until the second reading can be discussed. But the fact is that their MOST initiative has a certain moral foothold and some kind of positive goal if we want to put it that way, which is the arm on the heart and in the public interest. So it's not about any destruction, it's about some desires to make things happen. And this esteemed colleague that we have on HRT, I hope that my esteemed colleague has picked up a replica just before, that he will allow us the Croatian Parliament to shut us down for one two, three days to tell everyone who thinks and who has what to do about the activities of that institution at heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1006	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Mesic, with a piece of what you've been saying, I agree. As you know, because we've discussed it several times outside the assembly. However, allow me a few remarks and doubts as well as the fact that the focus here is on television. But we're talking about HRT subscription, that is, taxes on TV and a radio receiver until no one touches the radio. The quality of the television programme would be discussed and discussed and we know what the Programme Council is all about and how it should be considered in the debate on the development of Croatian broadcasting. You are now a position, you are a member of the position and I believe that you will also be in favour of the resolution board, but also of the new director of Croatian Radio Television who will be appointed to work on this communication, or media strategy or ministry that is competent to discuss it in this House. And let me remind you that our government has already begun to think that way. So we brought in the strategy for education development, the strategy for entrepreneurship development. I believe we're going with strategies and we're going to continue and it's good to talk about consensus here. So Croatian Radio has a very good program. He's a very good public service by my assessment and their information program I'd dare say is at least a copy above television. But what's my doubt is that when we speak and, as I said, the intensity of this law is good, but when we talk about avoiding lawyers in the system of enforcement why we only limit ourselves to HRT. Where are there other public institutions, other public enterprises like HEP and others? Is this the introduction that we're going to completely bypass lawyers in public institutions and whether we're going to change the executive law or why we're just focusing on HRT. Some will say everyone pays the HRT subscription, but everyone pays and electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1008	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1009	Dear colleague, don't have any doubts. Be safe and calm. I'm sure very soon some of those topics you've suggested will come to debate. Something has to change. It will certainly come to the debate and functioning of some public companies, and we will surely insist if you want on the Media Committee on Systemic Solutions. I will personally insist on the adoption of the Media Strategy, I think it's terribly important. I think that these questions will live up to this assembly. That's why I insisted if you remember before, so I understand your doubts but I assure you be calm, calm, don't have doubts, you're in good hands and there will be quality discussions while this parliamentary majority is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1010	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1011	Here is a distinguished colleague Mesic, who said exactly what I wanted to say, so I am looking forward to finally accessing this problem in a meaningful, comprehensive manner and in accordance with our obligations and duties. Because when it comes to the HRT program from Parliament's pay phone, it's at least dangerous. But it can be amnesty somewhat as an unknown matter. It is an editorial policy, and mixing in the editorial policy from Parliament's pay phone is at least a step backwards. I am personally against a tenorous, incorrect and unprofessional speech in the media as well as in the Parliament. And I will always respect the facts that I will distinguish from the scene speech. And I am glad that my colleague Mesic has announced a meaningful debate and that I am finally looking forward to this and the media strategy and all these important topics that have justifiably been drawn here as troublesome comes to order and that will be the way to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1012	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1013	Dear colleagues, I agree with everything you said, I don't really know what to say. I hope that we will succeed because when the HRT theme is opened at all, unfortunately, it very often ends up on exactly the Information Programme which is a small part of the HRT system, its actual largest capital is in the archive. So I hope we can talk about it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1014	Thank you. The next club of representatives who applied for participation in the debate is the HSS Club. On their behalf, the representative of the club Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1015	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, I must say, on behalf of this debate on amendments to the HRT Act, it is a surprise to us that this is going in a quick procedure and that this is how the law is passed. Because first of all, we want to help all our fellow citizens, and it's a good intensity to help those who can't pay. However, in all these laws, it is necessary to consider firstly what legal effects he has on the ground, what fiscal effects and what we ultimately achieve. Because these 180 thousand people over whom the commission was carried out for not paying the TV subscription most of them didn't pay because they didn't want to pay but because they couldn't. Because here came the data yesterday that over 800,000 people in the Republic of Croatia are poor, below 2,000 kuna incomes in their home budget. Unfortunately, the poorest I keep telling from this pay phone that the hardest thing to do is live in Slavonia and Baranja, and that data proves it. More than 35% of the citizens of Brod-Posavina County belong to this order of the poorest, so Virovitica-Podravska County, Osijek-Baranja, again the municipalities mentioned here mainly come from Slavonia and Baranja, Dalmatian Zagora, Like etc. And that's why people don't pay for it. Because when he has 2,000 kunas, he must first put all the bills on the table, all the directing and see what his priority is to pay. Unfortunately, he can't pay for everything. This can only change if we change our thinking about the situation in the economy, if election promises are made about 180 thousand new jobs and if we raise GDP and if our fellow citizens live better. It should also be said that one part of our fellow citizens does not pay because they do not have a public television service. In certain rural areas there is no signal or is a bad signal, and yet they have to pay that subscription even though they did not sign the contract did not create a debt-religious relationship but was ordered to pay it. It should also be said that part of our fellow citizens is unhappy because there is no HRT, our national television and public service news from my Drežnik, from Voćin, from some other villages. You know why? Because correspondence was abolished in both Novi Gradišca and Slavonski Brod and Slatina, Virovitica. And that's what we need to talk about. And that's why it's all about this topic and we need to put it all on the table and see what we want with our public television, which kind of service we give to our citizens and ultimately how much it costs. Is it enough that 80 kunas or 65 kunas would be fairer not to charge but to fully finance this public television from the state budget? There are such experiences in our environment, in some of our neighbouring European countries there is no subscription, in some it is much smaller. And what I have to say here is that a large number of our craftsmen and entrepreneurs have been completed and cannot pay these obligations, and we are all talking about reducing these parafiscal burdens and facilitating the business of the economy. And this is one of the burdens where it can be better and better solved and made business easier for our economy. Finally, there is no hurry with this law, there is a lot of fog, there is no need to break out, and as Stjepan Radić said, let us not gust out like geese in fog, but we are passing those laws that will really help our citizens, which will be feasible in practice, which will ultimately lead to HRT through the reformed system doing quality business. I believe she has the capacity to run this charge herself with an existing number of people and technique, she could have done so far. I'm just afraid this isn't about someone selling a new program or new computers to HRT. I'd rather we really have a quality program and a successful house that works well and that it's cheap for our fellow citizens. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1016	Thank you. Honorable representative Mladen Majer has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1017	Dear President, I'd like to refer to a colleague named Davor who mentioned the signal. Here's since I've come from Koprivnica-Crysing County and I've been in charge of the Chief for 16 years and I know well that there are no signals and what are the problems in my community. But once again, the bin was a coincidence that we didn't hear today and it wasn't said to address our craftsmen, i.e. to our autocars. For example, from our county that they have, I think we need to know that they're paying a subscription of 80 kn for every radio in their truck. So somebody's got 35 trucks paying for 80 kuna truck, and I think if we're going for a discharge, and we know that for example. In Germany, eight euros per year, in Slovenia and Hungary, payment was released. I think 80 kunas subscribe to each of the radio trucks that it's full and that we have to show attention to them and realize that it's reducing the subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1018	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1019	Thank you very much. So here I am in my debate and said that our craftsmen and entrepreneurs need to reduce these parafiscal burdens. You have specifically cited examples but it should be said that they still pay for it and not to call for disobedience but to want to be citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to respect the laws. But they also expect us to make laws that are enforceable and that are in the function of economic growth and development because we are not someone who is somewhere on the street and who would be able to manage some other methods since they cannot make decisions in a way that we invite them not to pay but we invite them to pay, but to make it appropriate for economic growth and development and that they can pay for it from their turnover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1020	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The next one that has already appeared in individual participation in the debate, MP Gordan Maras. Because he's not losing his right. After that, Tomislav Sagar is a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1021	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Since the debate has already moved on, I will try to express my thoughts on the subject in a brief discussion. So any legal solution that helps citizens especially those most sensitive to the difficult financial situation, any legal solution that helps resolve disputes between individual legal persons and citizens is certainly welcome. However, what I am not satisfied with, and this is likely to be an opportunity this week or when it is discussed about the Executive Law, is that we must not partially resolve such matters, we do not need to partially approach them because we will only complicate these relations and cause further and possibly additional costs in certain legal persons. What may always be needed in life or in the model that should be used is to learn from those who may be more successful in these things than we are. In our neighborhood, we have an example of Slovenia, we are in our own time because of the burden of courts and long-term procedures to relieve courts resorted to public notaries, instead they set out to inform and use all the resources that digital technology provides today. We voted here on Friday to form a new government and the Central Office for Digital Society will be formed. I just think that this office, and generally the information systems that exist in the Republic of Croatia, whether it's an e-Citizen system or an e-Justice system, can help with a solution in these situations. In Slovenia, this was resolved in such a way that only one court in Slovenia is engaged in performances and any legal person can get very soon, by applying to the system gets a quick solution. So the thing simplifies and the procedure itself is easier and doesn't cost much. In other words, here is a vivid example of cloud computing, today many companies, many companies do not have to buy expensive hardware, not specifically organise individual services, but can use a system that one gives online. In this respect, this information can also be used in the Implementing Law and thus simplify and speed up the overall process. However, it needs a systematic solution, and I think that through the amendments to the Executive Act, this will be discussed and we will come to a solution. I think that this office, which provides for a digital society office, that it will also come across the first obstacle in its work, and that here is a lot of mention, poverty, inequality of people, actually affecting the efficiency of the entire state, and in this direction, if we do, there will be fewer and more debates, and all those involved in this process will be able to do it more effectively. And there is no need to ignore the fact that in this way especially through information avoiding and corruption because today we mentioned here, not only is HRT, there are other public companies, there are utility companies. So today, any head of the municipality can, by means of an exaggeration, determine the lawyer who will represent him, who will represent the municipality or the municipal enterprise in certain matters, the city's company, and then this is the basis for both corruption and the famous percentage that can be sought by these procedures. Because it's really not normal for a single debt of several hundred kunas after ten years to grow to several thousand kunas and that the system failed in the process. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1022	Thank you, Representative Sagar. Since there is no replica, the next representative to appear in an individual debate is MP Zeljko Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1023	Your Honor, my colleagues. I've already mentioned something earlier about efficiency in our country and how HRT is a micro... of this country, if so, we're in great danger of losing the state. I wonder, how is it possible that an institution that has been able to function for 12 years gets a negative opinion from audits, etc., how is it possible that there is not yet one... What cost we have and what efficiency is. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] For example. We heard today from a parliamentary representative that 700 people can lead that institution, an institution, and we have a thousand people professional and 2,000 on a cold drive that may have been in love there. What we expect from such an institution and which is of the only revenue from the fee gets 1.2 billion kuna minimum. And what's going on here? Conflict of interest. As it's possible that the head of human resources has a private employment agency in that same institution, it's a copy of the entire state here that we're talking about. And we can call it free as I said Guatemala City on Savi. And we've been discussing the legal system for 20 years. Why has not one agency been established so far, a anti-corruption centre where synergy between the judiciary, between USKOK, and whether this is happening in former, other ministries, etc. In terms of content, the media blockade, as it is possible for one ministry to sue the former government for treason which was recently launched towards the DORH and that all... They're blocking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going back to not only that content, because that's why most people don't pay, a lot of people don't pay a fee out of spite because they're full of suitcases... .................................................................................... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the former Yugoslavia, which fell a long time ago and we're still watching it on TV, in movies, documentaries, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we mention HAVC today, we have a new application against this facility that gets 4% of the revenue of 1.2 billion kuna or more. How long will this go on? If we continue this way, the country is already facing economic collapse. He's coming to collect next year 3.5 billion kuna, 1.1 man works, 1 is retired. That condition is unsustainable. But if we can't fix one public television, I think this proposal is well-intentioned and in terms of efficiency we had 20 years to build a legal state, to set up a legal system and what do we have? Hundreds of thousands of unsolved cases, 20 grand we have a company without one employee. If only they could hire one of them, that's 40,000 employees. 300 grand in the blockade and another raid tomorrow is happening. If this is how it goes, like I said, we've got an exact picture of the former state, and what's waiting for us? There's only one, one more, it's hyperinflation, which was before, buy a newspaper for 10 dinars, tomorrow it's 150. But since it's not 5 before 12, but 5 after 12, I'd like to do the best I can before I finish this statement by the Department of Justice. I would like him to create overnight vessels that will work 24 hours a day, to include court officials in the works, not to have judges work all year long and solve 5.6 cases. That's what we had in the former state, and that's why we pay 7 billion former Yugoslavia's debt today. And if it doesn't fix we're all gonna be me thinking, but we're already at Greek level by standard... about the investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have to ask key questions also not only this, this raises other questions who will invest in a country where 7% of the land introduced, arranged in books. Speaking on HTV, I would agree here with Mr. Pernar, who is talking about 490 thousand Croats who are looking for a return of their property, 2 million hectares of agricultural land. What are we discussing here? This is more and more like a discussion of the central committee where much is said and Rome is on fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1024	Thank you, Agent Glasnović. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1025	I would just like to thank Mr. Glasnović for this presentation and for pointing out the facts that are hidden from the public, which from the public hides the state television that he knows is who he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1026	Thank you. The next representative to appear in an individual debate is representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1027	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to resort to those colleagues and colleagues who have shown support for this bill in the sense that in one part of it, but only in one part of me, will really help our most vulnerable and poorest groups of fellow citizens and fellow citizens that in one more dignified and much more humane way, if they have already come into the situation that they have been unable to pay these rTV fees and have brought themselves unwanted to the situation to come before the end and in fact it will make it much easier for them the whole time. However, I also refer to those colleagues and colleagues who have expressed their skepticism or attitude that this bill should be approached in a much more systematic way and perhaps address the problems of our most vulnerable citizens in the same legal way. Here we have had the opportunity to hear in some discussions that this bill goes hand in hand to small people who have no money and that the very height of the subscription is not the subject of these amendments to the law although it is taxively listed as one of the 7 conditions in the negotiation procedure between the Most and HDZ in the process or process of assembling a new Government. To this day, it is not clear why it has given up. And it's not true that there is no legal mechanism and that today we couldn't win on benches and one such bill. Only the article through this proposal is amended here, and only Article 36 is amended. However, Article 35 does not change. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So here it was said that the amendments to these laws will ultimately make our poorest group of citizens pay less. My question I'm asking myself is why should we, okay, make it easier for people who are in trouble right now, but why are we taking the final lead with a solution and not solving the causes of the problem? We will decide that people who are ahead of this will be executed for less resources because we will throw lawyers out of the whole process and those people will be deprived of one part of the financial cost. However, why don't we just go to the beginning of this story and change the article, let's say, 35, which gives full authority to the Croatian Assembly to commit the Supervisory Board so that it can apply the part relating to providing different heights for specific social groups, i.e. certain reliefs for individual groups of citizens. When we look at the current contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Supervisory Board, or the HRT, then we can see that this temporary contract that was concluded for the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2017, he says in just one part that individual groups of persons with disabilities enjoy the basis of Article 102 of that contract of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government's right to exempt from the charge or the right to a preferential fee. So now again, I don't know if this is just a show for the public? Why this solution only went on a partial basis, it did not go into the core of the problem and could not be intervened in these starting positions, so that all citizens, regardless of their income, pay the same tv tax. It's not fair, and it should definitely be changed. What this unfortunately draft law does not deal with is also some of the essential things of the operation of HRT but I wouldn't be much longer about it. I hope that, at some reasonable time, there will also come new amendments to the Croatian Law on HRT which will offer a new vision of the development of HRT, that it will indeed become a public service of all Croatian citizens who are in fact also a fundamental activity to provide timely, true, impartial and lasting information to the public, that it will be a public non-party television regardless of which party's set of rights and freedoms, tolerance, understanding and respect for diversity, democratic values of civil society and actually promote a culture of public dialogue. These are all items and all these obligations of HRT are prescribed by already existing law. However, obviously some things do not work, we are all aware of this and will obviously have to be through some further amendments and additions to the law or the adoption of a new law to see how to implement in practice what is written in Croatian laws. Finally, in principle, I support every move that will contribute to a fairer distribution in society, a fairer burden on our fellow citizens according to their incomes and living circumstances in which they live. We are aware, on the other hand, that the laws must be respected, obligations must be settled but ultimately, as I have already said at the very beginning of our poor fellow citizens and our people who live around us who truly every kuna is important in life would probably mean a lot more that you have stuck to that first proposal and that you have made special categories depending on the receipts, that their financial obligations to pay the radio-television fee are also determined, rather than that, in fact, when they are already in that problem in which they are in a small way symbolically trying to show that we are changing things in the hope that we will go very quickly into new amendments and amendments to the law. Well, here's what I want for all those who are done or those who are about to be completed to really contribute these changes to their easier lives and to dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1028	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. Replica was reported by Representative Tulio Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1029	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is my colleague Sabine, like most of the debaters here, mentioned that this law solves the poor part of the population who cannot pay this fee, but it is also mentioned that no analysis has been made. And so this bill goes towards a particular target group that we don't know if we're really helping poor people who can't pay or those who haven't been paid for spite or for some other reason. So I think this bill of law, which was sent by MOST, is unqualityly prepared but I believe that what Mr Mesic said will expect us shortly after this establishment, the formation of a new government that this law will experience major changes. But what I'd like to draw attention to and it's said that this fee is a kind of imposition. And the welfare is being resolved by some other laws, not by this law. But also since no one has mentioned it today, so I would like to mention those other groups of citizens who, with this particular imposition, question their business, and above all, I think of the businessmen. So we also have written suggestions from associations specifically carriers who pay monthly subscription for each vehicle or for each service vehicle in which the radio receiver is installed. Same for the tenants. It also means for everyone who's going to introduce a cell phone bill tomorrow. Today we have cell phones that have radio receivers on them, so I believe we'll all have to pay 80 kuna for and this kind of receiver. I therefore propose that this initial initial proposal by MOST may be acceptable, but the fact is that this law as proposed is not sufficient and that a major change should surely be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1030	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1031	Dear colleague Demetlika, that's exactly what I said. I, too, express hope and the view that until the second reading, since this law is addressed to happiness in the parliamentary procedure, i.e. in the ordinary procedure with us in the Assembly, I believe that, by that second reading, it may decide to amend and existing law in Article 35 which states that the amount of monthly fees for each year determines by its decision of the Croatian Supervisory Board, with the prior approval of the Council for Electronic Media, and that this decision can also determine the privileges for certain categories of payment obligations. So, the Croatian Parliament as the highest body in the Republic of Croatia can actually do what it wants. It may, either through amendments to the law or through the adoption of a certain conclusion, give an input to the Supervisory Board that, as it has applied the right of preferential payment obligations for individual groups of persons with disabilities as I have told you and as established in this contract of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government, the same can be done for certain groups of Croatian citizens who are truly poor. Then in that case, we would not already put people in a situation where they can't pay their dues and we would reduce their costs of execution, but at the very beginning of citizens who would really be able to pay 10, 15, or 20 kuna less in a lot of these 80 kunas. And as far as the bill's proposal is concerned, I think it needs to be further completed. There is a lot of unknown not only financial effects, which would be normal for us to have a PFU form along with it, but also for the fact that the Legislative Committee has put certain fences and dilemmas related to this bill. I hope he respects the same thing until the second reading, because they're not harmless. It enters some constitutional and legal relations and is quite undefined.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1032	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Saucha.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I share your opinion that this is a law, i.e. The intensity of this law is good and that is what should be said here in the Parliament so that it would not remain a visit in the air if the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia Club is not against the intensity of this law. And any law that goes towards facilitating the lives of Croatian citizens, to make their lives cheaper, to make them cheap in this case of forced collection in case of payment of the tv tax should be welcomed. What concerns us is the implementation of this law in terms of its technical implementation. If this law had been prepared adequately, he would have been ready for adoption by now if he had gone through all the procedures. That's why I'm glad he's going in two readings, to get it fixed. I am fully in favour of getting out of this forced collection process not only that but also in the case of other public institutions and unnecessary midle man. So, medium, that middleman who's killing money on someone else's accident. So anything that goes that way should come across our support. However, what is a problem is that and when the best intentions may occur some mistakes in the making of the law. Today on the Legislative Committee, we have had our remarks and I think that the colleagues in the MOST have accepted it. Technical feasibility is important. I've talked to some people who understand it a lot better than I do, and I'm usually a lawyer. I have to admit, after a while, I got lost. I think it's very important that this law be applicable, that he live, and that's why I think it's good to go in two readings. And I hope he gets better, but it's an important message so we're not against making life easier for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1034	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1035	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Sauch, I don't know if you've been in the assembly all day. But many colleagues, or some colleagues, have actually very well detected the problem, or intensities of this law. So this law sort of offers a solution, but it also offers technical implementation which he should not actually do. But it is a kind of guidance to HRT in how to behave, a binding instruction that will be put into the legislative proposal. Because no one has ever defended Croatian broadcasters by themselves with their legal services, so with the power of their employees, they carry out all those procedures for non-payments, or for forced payment of RTT fees, she did not. Now the Croatian Parliament takes matters into its own hands through this law. It's a little tricky when the law goes crazy in some part of it, so when it becomes something that requires the technical implementation of something with some purpose. But well, since the intention is clear I believe that until the second reading here will be taken seriously into account the objections and conclusions of the Legislative Committee, that in Article 36a, paragraph 4, the word order will be added because it is missing. It's like this now I won't say even nomotechnically anymore than probably a lapus. And answer some questions, meaning why, for example, a confirmation of the enforcement of a payment order which means the very beginning of the enforcement procedure is actually through this bill which was referred to the first reading offered as the discretionary law of the HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1036	Thank you. Also a spokesman for the replica, Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1037	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Voter, I would refer to your claim that the law should be respected, I absolutely agree. But I'd like to apply to article 36. The law on HRT according to which the Croatian citizen is entitled to sign off on his device and after the process is completed, he no longer has to pay a RTV fee. And I'd like to remind myself in this spirit we should look at the commentary and the invitation of fellow Pernar to invite citizens not to pay for the TV subscription. He called on them first of all to have the right under the law to sign off and not to participate in it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1038	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1039	Comrade Sincic, you probably know that in the nature of life the application of this article of the law is almost impossible, in its duration and in its complexity. I understand, it is clear to me on behalf of your club that you are actually calling on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in some way to express their position by showing insubordination to the system of existing law, etc. It's your right, I disagree with you. Just as I don't agree with the current system that I'm actually not going to tell you in the beginning since you were born, but I could say it like that, so until you're dead, you're actually obliged to pay a fee or a subscription to television without actually having some kind of willingly concluded relationship between you as a party and between HRT, so maybe I'd rather look at a solution to that problem on this trail than this which is, of course, the right of all citizens to use if they want and the right of Article 36 of the applicable Law on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1040	Thank you. The next representative to report for an individual debate is representative Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1041	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MOST had promised before the elections to reduce the HRT subscription to 65 kn, and there is no letter here today. The only solution is that the cost of non-payment fines is lower than so far and that they amount to 100 kuna. It is certainly another one in a series of MOST post-election fraud voters, and instead of solving the cause of the problem we are again dealing with weak attempts to solve the consequences. Even if, by any chance, HRT's subscription was reduced to 65 kuna, it would not be an important reform because the HRT tax is illegal, and therefore it is not only a parafiscal imposition but rather a real harrass and an open road for the robbery of citizens. Namely, the HRT fee is not paid to watch the HRT program but is unnecessary to purchase any type of TV or radio receiver including tablets and computers. HRT inspectors have become so violent that we'll probably have to pay for cell phones soon if we don't pay for it. HRT tax does not and will not make sense until the HRT programme is encoded and therefore must at least be suspended temporarily. By the time the programme is coded and any return of the subscription of the operating costs of the HRT must be taken over by the State. The question arises if HRT is allowed to charge a subscription on each sold device, why does this same right not have other TV stations or radio stations? Are there valid contracts with users for which subscribers or viewers must pay HRT tax? Croatian citizens not only do not want to pay the HRT fee because of the bad programme, but they simply don't have the money for it. That's what more than 100,000 executions are about for that reason alone. At this point, as many as 30% of Croatian citizens are late with the payment of the most basic directors, so the legislators should ask themselves, where do citizens get the money for HRT subscription if they have no electricity to pay for? What's even bigger is the paradox of thousands of citizens at this point have the power off but all that time they have to pay the HRT subscription just because they have a radio or a TV receiver in the house. They do, but I can't turn it on. In a specific case, the Mikac family from Kaštelanc has had their electricity up for 3 years because of a 6000 kuna debt and all 3 years have to pay for HRT subscription just because they have a TV device. It is time for our politicians to realize that with all the existing cost of living 80 kn for the average Croatian family there is a lot of money. Citizens simply have nothing to pay for that amount. That's why it's an absurd proposal for MOST to punish one who can't pay 80 kn with a fine of 100 kuna. So if he doesn't have 80 kuna, how come he's got 180? How much of this law will the account be unblocked with? No one will be unblocked, but that's why many accounts will be blocked. It also mentions the fact that profits will be made to executives in terms of lawyers or public notaries, but it also overlooks the fact that HRT will earn additional earnings. For if there are a hundred thousand accomplished and you charge each one a hundred kunas, that is ten million kunas. What kind of work must HRT officials do with the already existing salaries they have to issue in order to issue an executive correction? How long does this job take if you have the sprawl done? Two minutes. So for this reason, it makes no sense to charge a hundred kuna fines because it's a very simple job. Eventually, the penalty, a warning, should be charged to a maximum of ten kunas. I'm sure every accounting office would do this job for a million kunas or less per year if HRT left it to him. So, in short, the conclusion is that this legislative proposal is actually a front for the negotiations that MOST led with HDZ on the division of chairs, so now a guarantee is being introduced as something. There's no reform here. MOST has no courage to implement reforms in favour of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1042	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The next representative to appear in an individual debate is MP Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1043	Thank you, fellow president. So after all day and debate, I also believe that a lot of words have been expressed and spoken here that are inappropriate to the honorable duty of lawyers and public notebooks. Was it necessary not to mention one name or two, three names of public notebooks and then was generalised but for the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of truth therefore the problem of HRT is not lawyers but it is the fact that we did not regulate public procurement procedures for the use of lawyer and notary services with our legislation. They are left to decide the will of those who manage these institutions, and then you can read back who the real person should be criticized, whether a lawyer who manages to get a job or who gave it to him. Well, the director gave it to him, so look who named this director, who appointed him and who made the political decisions on HRT. So it could've been resolved without changing the law, and the law is otherwise directed towards HRT's well-chosen target, but I think it's a missed weapon. Today, on a TV that works, broadcasts and hosts parliamentary representatives, and does not receive a monthly fee, I asked if it was now the leverage of the Most or what happened to the Law on HRT and the reduction, I said I didn't know who the Most's legal advisor was, but this time it was filled with a board and very well. So you could help all subscribers in multiple ways. Those who have up to five hundred kuna pensions pay forty kuna, so this could be put on three thousand kuna. A solution could be found that one who does not pay a regular TV subscription to prohibit him from viewing the program as some new solution. But what's the real problem and why this proposal is a good thing is the fact that there's an enormous amount of money being spent on us at a little bit 80 kunas is taken away from those whose money means something to them. So it's not the charge issue, it's the problem with the low efficiency of HRT, and I've said it in the replica before, and now I'm going to do it again. So RTL TV, NOVA TV that doesn't even receive kunas of these funds have a 16% stake in employees' salaries in total incomes, and HRT 32%. So they're double, we want concrete, more incompetent, more lazy, and we don't need anything but to put them in order. If they were put in order to be equally burdened in the same activity because we are not comparing metal industry and airline transport but the same brand, then out of the amount of 436 million kunas that I have calculated according to the end of 2015 data, there would be 218 million kunas more on pay correction or on efficiency, which means that the total annual income from the RTTV subscription amounting to EUR 215 million would fall to a billion and we would get the situation that we could reduce the existing subscription from 80 to exactly what you asked from the Most 60-five kuna, just to make them do just as they do on RTL and NOVO. But when we say, we can't watch HTV like that if they have and who knows what other tasks of the documentary program, then I'll tell you for comparison the following, so who and how many imports of foreign media content. RTL 80 million kuna and probably from their sister televisions from other EU members. NOVA 115 million kuna and our HTV 143 million kuna. So 143 million kuna imported content to compete with other commercial televisions that have no income at all from this tv tax. So in this case, it is evident that it is not a problem for any law firm, not ten public notaries who are truly unsuitably richer but not because they have made it possible for them to do so, it is possible for them to make a political decision through the directorship and the director of HRT. Let's change public procurement, determine how we're going to choose lawyers and notebooks to represent them, and let's not deny them the right to work, because if you're going to remove something from jurisdiction, so providing a lawyer service, then you're going to reopen all constitutional problems and lawsuits, and it's going to come back to a start again. As far as public notebooks are concerned, the situation is even worse because you need to know that public service or practice is actually a public service. So you can determine that as a colleague Stazic has well noticed, so for 90 kuna, not for 100 kuna fines but the whole job will be done by the public notebooks themselves. And if the State does not prescribe that additional burden and cost, the tax collected by the public notary for the State is the total cost of its work to carry out the procedure of implementing the 90 kuna. So it's unnecessary to put even worse those 100 kunas. In conclusion, HRT is a troubled large public institution that really needs significant reform, there should be no mercy inside and there should be problems for all citizens, accessibility, all those in politics with equal access to the media. It is inappropriate to carry out, so they reduced about 500 jobs from the end of '13. 3274 to the end of '15. 2799, but then they shut down the teams on the ground and shut down the representations. So what's interested in someone in Koprivnica and Križevci County who sets huge revenues into the state budget if they don't have their own representation and they've brought it down to three video journalists and they have 3,000 employees. So this is my open invitation to both MOST and HDZ, which will depend on what happens next to HRT, to open it to society, to open it to the market, and to really be a service so that we all will pay 80 or I don't know how many kunas and not actually that these 100,000 simply half of them don't want to pay because they don't support what they have to watch on that television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1044	I'd like to thank the representative. Replica was first reported by MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1045	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lackovic, I was invited by your debate regarding the relationship between commercial television and HRT. So according to the contract that HRT has with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is strictly precise, defined what is all that HRT has to include in its programme, there are also radio programs and television programs. What's also limited is the broadcasting of advertising content on public television, so I think 9 minutes per hour is limited and in prime terms of four minutes. What is important to emphasize, HRT cannot be measured by commercial television. And what I'm thinking is that, before there was mentioning in the debates, it might be a good solution to cut a part of it if we want to cut the public TV subscription to make a part of it out of advertising, from advertising commercial television. So commercial television is co-financed by public television. Maybe that would be one of the solutions because public television doesn't stand much of a chance in that game. Because, look, ratings aren't what public television and public television tends to do for commercial television. So it doesn't mean that it shouldn't be watched but there are a number of specialized shows that are interesting only in a narrow circle of viewers. I don't know what this part of it is, this surprised me too, this part of it surprised me when you said about importing software content, maybe it refers to Croats out of country or something, but this really amount is too large and I'm a little surprised too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1046	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1047	So the data are from business.hr available in search where you see what all one company imports and what exports. But what we export if we do so much good and then, among other things, for our Croats in BiH. RTL exports 6 million kuna content, NOV@6 million and this great huge... of 1.4 billion exports 9 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So funny. Nine million kuna is one stronger machine. But if there were all these huge commitments to be made by HRT, then I ask you what are the obligations that are worth practically 1% of the state budget and it's 950 million kunas of other costs. And if there's somewhere to cut it, it's where to cut it. And this way, these mastodons, they'll never have enough money, they'll spend more and more, and they'll turn into folk newspapers, into an official paper that no one will ever look at but they'll have to have it so we'll have to pay for it because it has to be published there and no one's going to read it. So there are 143 million kunas of imported content, so if we have so many people 3,000 why didn't we film them ourselves? Of course, it's a competition that commercial televisions are most likely concerned, but any, any, I don't know, finding a solution through reducing the legal costs of 20 million, creating some other additional, what's good is to ban HRT from accessing the court at all with such cases because they've deafened, so imagine how many court proceedings and officials are, how many judges work on 100 thousand of the total 180 thousand cases. So this would lead to a discharge that we tell them you can't go to court, the Croatian court, you have, if you fail to collect in the executive procedure in front of the public notebook you can't go to court because then you really don't have anyone because every man has an account of some kind, so if he can't go through the notebook to an account, then you don't even have to file a lawsuit to be conducted exclusively for legal expenses that will be charged regardless of whether the file is charged or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1048	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1049	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, our fellow citizens, some of our fellow citizens, while paying for radio television subscription, or HRT, look only at payments and performances. Many citizens who, for example, are in parts of Istria, Gorski kotar, and even on Zadar islands are unable to follow the HRT programme at all because the transmitters are actually disturbed by the service they are obliged to pay, the signal they are obliged to pay, which should enable them to watch the HRT programme is not available at all. I agree with you in the part where you said there was a space to allow citizens to cut their broadcasting subscriptions. And I think that this should be the key intensities of this law to allow citizens who have no money in the beginning to pay less than what will produce these amendments to the law that they ultimately did not pay, which they were not able to pay less. And third, when you were talking about the dissatisfaction with certain debates, individual colleagues where you throw a shadow at the work of lawyers and public notebooks I would just quote a couple of news headlines that actually looked at us from the cover for the past year, said the student took the allowance for the upcoming non-existent HRT debt, the girl sent a final proposal for 12 years for not paying a television subscription. HRT apologized for the conduct of the girl, the execution of 10 years in court, the debt of 4000 grew to 17 thousand, the HRT hereby deprives me of my already paid debt, according to the bitter citizen. For 80 kuna long cost of a 1000 kuna, HRT sent him a charge for 20 years old debts, HRT we reported to USKOK because I have a commission to pay taxes. These are all headlines in which citizens who are completed and who are not really care who is guilty, who is more or less guilty, we are all guilty, not all of us see a tree from the forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1050	I thank you for the voter's representative. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1051	So I don't want to delay the debate, but I'm really repeating that the vast majority of lawyers have absolutely nothing to do with it, so 99.9% of lawyers don't represent HRT and can't talk about lawyers as something, so they encourage this evil. I told you, among other things, that a lawyer was elected by the headmaster or by a council of directors as already called HRT, and they set it either one or another option. Debts were charged from one option or another. So it's time to go somewhere else. I'm interested, for example, in a better approach to different policies towards HRT. Here I was openly jealous of my colleague Petrov, who was three times in "Sunday at 2" as a thrift mayor, and I, with 30 years of volunteering without a single kuna, didn't get 30 seconds on HRT. And I wouldn't pay them because they didn't work in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to see if any political phenomena were good and then we'd present them or something. Somehow I came here to the Parliament and I want to speak freely and freely. And again I'm going to tell you the problem was in the policies set up by HRT leaders, and the problem is the way HRT is being led rather than by lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1052	I'd like to thank the representative for this. Since he called me directly, I can only thank you in an informal tone for this jealousy. And just keep trying forward, you'll probably earn your five seconds. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1053	Dear Representative Lackovic, it has been my pleasure as an economist to listen to this one short comparative analysis of the work of a state television and private television. And you did it in maybe ten minutes and you showed us how inefficient the system is. And then we wonder why trees and stones are thrown at state-owned companies, why it is constantly claimed that the state sector is inefficient and that the state needs to be driven out of everything. And the key question arises, so I'm going to ask you in the end, so who appoints these people who run public companies? And they always call them those who gain power and who exercise authority. So for that reason we have problems and we can call this structural reform. What no one's saying is structural reform and this is about a company over a billion kuna, it's just collecting income, so here's the revenue for structural reform. Of course, this structural reform on HRT will not be implemented by this Assembly because we are legislative already tomorrow's executive power, so the government. We need to have a new public sector management and I understand this MOST proposal on purpose, but this is superficial. So you have to go to the depths and it's not too late to ask for one structural reform at HRT in the second reading. And I'm asking you here, specifically after this quality data on exports of 9 million, poor production, no homework, so we don't have any new names, quality, etc. Do you really think that after this many debates in the House there will be a new quality management on HRT as one sign of a new one policy or will politics continue to be conducted listen only to what your boss tells you? Here, please tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1054	Replication response by representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1055	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. So it's impossible to know what's going to happen, maybe we'll go to the local elections, anything is possible. But if we don't change our approach to public money in a way that we're sensitive to where it's being collected and the way it's being spent, then we won't do whatever it takes to call it reform, change or anything else. So, it's crucial to have determination, the government has enough majority and there's no reason not to carry out a serious reform on both HRT and to make them be effective, not to now declare it by forcing people into the street or I don't know how, they have said 32% of the cost of total salary revenues. But they still have 950 million kunas. So they don't have to be effective overnight because they can't. They can be effective within three to five years. And that they can be taken as long as it takes to cut the subscription to 65 kuna and that's what you can do. I thought that was the clue to this MOST proposal because it could be done right away. Now that's why you won't do it. If he won't, it's another pair of sleeves. I think the media will no longer be crucial in creating government and opinion among citizens since there have been a lot of third options in the Croatian Parliament and these changes that are happening will not be stopped independently in any way that it is trying to control public television.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1056	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'd just like to warn one thing not to take this as a criticism. Some MPs warned that too much is being discussed today and that some very simple things are being discussed. I wish we could really stick to the subject. Some things can be signed up through a break. Then we can talk about restructuring and management of state-owned companies. Today it is the proposal for a law on the possibility of enforcement through HRT management. If we really stick to the subject, this is what I'm saying right now, and for this session to continue, it's going to be shorter and more likely to be more constructive. The next representative who appeared in the closing statement on behalf of the Representatives' Club lives the wall their representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1057	Your Honor, Mr. President, I apologize, dear colleagues and colleagues. After a month of negotiations between MOST and HDZ, we got on the table, so that's the famous guarantee that essentially solves nothing. It offers a solution to the problem in such a way as to imagine a bird in a 30 cm wide cage and now we're going to help her in a way that extends the cage to 40 cm. There's little more room for waved wings, but they still won't have that key freedom. If this is a guarantee of stability and success, the successes of the future government we are sincerely concerned about what lies ahead for the next four years. It's a pity to God those months that have been negotiated for something this weak, not enough. If this was a condition to form a government without which it could not, then Croatia really does not write well in the next four years. What kind of laws you're going to propose that aren't as important as this very important thing that we've been discussing here for two days now. HRT is not public television. It is political television, television that is in the service of foreign power centres, the EU, NATO alliances, foreign-owned banks and corporations. HRT tax is charged only and only because it is allowed by puppet parties and politicians in the service of those centres that I mentioned earlier. The only fair thing would be to cancel that HRT subscription at least until the moment that program isn't coded, so let's let whoever wants to watch it pay. We don't watch HRT TV or pay for it in the Living Wall. It is not only Mr. Pernar who has checked out the TV, I have checked out and we will not pay it until television becomes television, media in the service of all Croatian citizens and media in the service of the interests of Croatian citizens and justice. For this reason, we call once again on all Croatian citizens to exercise their legal right, not revolutionary law, as some have planted and to sign out the HRT receiver once and for all. In view of this, it will not be so difficult for them because there is nothing to watch on that television anyway, and I believe that a large number of Croatian citizens are not even watching what they show among other things about the ratings of NOVA TV, RTL and other TVs. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1058	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to ask Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1059	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Here it means after this long debate in which we have actually heard some interesting things, but we have finally welcomed the representatives of the SDP club, namely Mr. Saucha, to say that it is a good intensity of this law and that it is going in the right direction. But, of course, those in the spirit in which this session of Parliament and this constitutive assembly began, or session, continue to present the reasons and remarks that are not resolved by some concrete proposal. Of course this proposal will not solve all the problems. We've made it clear what he's dealing with. It is decided that the money that has so far gone into the hands of certain law firms and public notebooks now remains in the pockets of Croatian citizens. And Mr. Lackovic, an esteemed colleague is not true that we have called all the lawyers and all the public notebooks here. So I'm not a man who's afraid. I've openly told you who's been doing the most of those errands. That's Mr. Hanžekovic. I also called the HANZA Media and their relationship to the Most precisely because of this guarantee of ours. So we're not doing this to get revenge on Mr. Hanžekovic. We announced this, and that's when the major media coups on the Most began. And we will continue to insist on this. And the SDP can, as it did today and at the Executive Law, tell who we're not all helping with our proposal. And they've had an opportunity to mean over the four years that they've been in power to solve this problem and all the other problems and to pass an executive law that goes in favour of the citizens and that will help here all these categories they're talking about. They didn't do anything. And this reform, Mr. Bunzac, is a small step. We did not say that this is the most important thing, this is just a guarantee that shows that things in Croatia will go in the right direction. We had experience with HDZ, new leadership came and we needed a guarantee that will show us that they want to change things in Croatia, first by small steps and then some bigger steps. And here you and your SDP colleagues tried to turn things around towards reducing the HRT subscription. We haven't given up on it, we need a clear hodogram of activities to be presented in a few days and it will be seen that we will insist on reducing HRT's subscription. But you can't ignore this problem and say that it doesn't matter to 100 thousand Croatian citizens who are affected by this or all those who will be affected. This money by passing this law, that money will remain in their pockets. He won't go to Hanžekovic. And let Hanžekovic and that team freely attack MOST, let them attack me freely, personally, won't scare me. Many of us have not been intimidated by this we have shown that we will continue to fight for Croatian citizens. Mr. Bunjac, you have the opportunity to propose some kind of bill, some kind of amendment. We don't hesitate and fear anything, we have 14 hands. You can't change everything that's wrong in Croatia from 14 hands in one or two days, but you can go in the right direction. I think we're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1060	Representative Darko Paric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear comrade Grmoya, you're a very nice twister of things that suits you. No one in the SDP told you this was a failure, that this was bad. It's been said to be very correct and very true that this is a good try and a good intensity but that what you're trying to solve with the law doesn't have any need to solve it so you can handle it as a power on HTV today. You have your director of HRT, HTV on HTV, however you want to vote with most of them. This is about a simple process of how something is charged or not charged. It's not part of the law at all. What the SDP is trying to tell you is that you were in the campaign all along with your terms and conditions with your guarantees that you would reduce your HTV subscription. That's what we expected from you today, not this. This is really eye-smoothing, this is just a little thing that shouldn't have been in Parliament at all. A serious government would handle this on its own, and it wouldn't even get to the Parliament. What the SDP, which I as a representative of the SDP, also expect you to keep your promise to cut the compensation for the HRT tax. And here I call you if you want to be consistent if you want to be as you claim to be and not basically just some Robin Hood who pretends to be Robin Hood in another reading add to the law that you're reducing HRT subscription. If this law goes into two readings, it means public debate, it means you have enough time to put these instruments in another reading and let's see it in another reading. Then you'll get it, and then we'll back you up in something like that. But this way something does, it just doesn't really make sense for us and the citizens. And that's why we're being attacked. We're just telling you that what you're doing today doesn't have to be in Parliament at all. Everything can be done through HRT and through the government you hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1062	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1063	I am pleased that you have admitted that the government of Zoran Milanovic, or the government of the SDP, was a non-serious government because you said that any serious government would solve this problem. Your government didn't solve this problem, and here should be the MOSTs who will give this bill. I'm glad you admitted that. And as far as everything else is concerned, the reduction in HRT subscription is clearly said, and I am now in my statement that it will be a clear hodogram that will respect everything and that it means the reduction of the costs of HRT itself and then the reduction of the subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1064	I'd like to thank the representative. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1065	Here's Mr. President of the Parliament. I'll just comment briefly. You just warned us to focus on the topic because we're not talking about restructuring, etc. Here at the end of this debate I would suggest that we all work more efficiently, so now I see at the end of the topic is the debate on the draft law supplementing the HRT Act, right? And we have the next topic of the draft law amending and supplementing the executive law, Mr. President, this topic is an integral part of the Executive Act because we were just talking about the performance, or you were directing us, and it's good that it is. So I suggest you bring this topic together next time because it's one topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1066	Thank you. As regards the pooling of debates, this can be done in several ways, besides the representatives of clubs may suggest it. The moment we put out the agenda, you could have, for example. and you or any of the club representatives suggest a united debate. Since you didn't suggest it, we're on this agenda. Thank you. We have another request for replica, representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1067	Here we have just heard that MOST will take small steps and then there will be big steps afterwards. However, I remind Mr. Grmoy of a saying that iron is cooked while it's hot. I find it quite responsible that in the next 4 years, you will certainly not reduce the HRT subscription and I am almost certain that you will not be able to implement even this thin bill that you have just proposed. We will, of course, submit an amendment to this law, but let the amendments not be proposed for first reading, so when it comes to second reading of this law we will gladly and safely submit an amendment to your legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1068	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1069	I thank Mr. Bunjec for his participation in the debate, and here I invite him and all the other representatives and clubs to submit their amendments, and as for this, we will see what will be done. We have shown that in the politics of the chair and the positions are not important to us, to fight for the principles. This could be seen by the entire Croatian public, I believe you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-18-0.u1070	Thank you. I can close the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, I believe it'll be tomorrow at 11 p.m. when we resume the session. I hope then there will also be a point about the government's trust. All necessary materials will be obtained on the web portal and in the meantime will be delivered to you before tomorrow's session begins, the session will continue. Thank you. Session interrupted at 18.10 hours. I will repeat how I announced yesterday we will first approach the vote on yesterday's item on the draft Law supplementing the Croatian Radio Television Act, first reading, P.Z.BR.10. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. I'd only beg to determine the quorum. Thank you. We have a quorum, 127 present agents. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion 1. The proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Croatian Television, 2nd all observations, proposals and opinions will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please engage. Let's vote. Who's in? Thank you. The vote is over. 81 MPs for, 49 abstentions, no representative against. Most of the votes came to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
