ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u286	On behalf of the club HSLS-BUZ Gordana Rusak I demand a 10 minute break to speak to the Croatian public regarding mandatory pension funds and otherwise retirement issues that are clapping media space these days, and because of the public's interest and a large number of questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u287	Okay, thank you very much. There's no one else who's answering? Thank you. So I'll see you at 9.45. Thank you very much. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] My colleagues and colleagues here are out of time, so I'm going to ask Honorable Representative Milivove Spiku to present on behalf of the HSLS-BUZ Club what he intended, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u289	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues like all those who follow us I want a good morning! Lately, we have a whole series of debates at different levels, and as far as the future of the pensioners, whether they are now or who will be, so it comes first and more often the story of the second pension column, which is sort of taking place, let's say, conditionally, and past the representatives of the pensioners in this House. Well, since there were quite a number of these questions, it's time to take advantage of this possibility and give some answers to how membership works and for all those interested, so we're just going to get to know the public with some of the facts that it is. So today's average pension is not 40% of the average salary some want to make, but 31% of the average salary, because according to European standards, it counts for gross, hence gross pensions and gross wages, so 31%. The second fact is, if the total amount allocated for pensions each year was allocated to the amount that goes according to special laws, then all if it were to be thrown out except for these workers' pensions, then it would come to the fact that for the regular payment of the annual pensions, there would be between billions and two billion kunas missing, taking into account the already 5 billion that we spend annually in the second pension column and 2.5 billion about how much the annual interest goes on that. So all those stories about how pensioners are a burden to society and how the government owes them is not true. But the fact is in a few other details, which is that at this point in the second pension column, we have 75 billion, and in about 4 years, it's going to be 100 billion, and for another 10, it's going to be over 200. So it will be over two budgets of the Republic of Croatia that we will place on accounts we cannot manage, which we cannot manage and which will increase and increase continuously public debt. That's a fact and that's a clear point. All the stories that the funds in the second pension column are owned by any individual are not standing and not true because an individual can never reach them. What I'm saying here is not for reasons of opposing any idea or any solution or countering to our government, which among other things says that the funds in the second pension column could or should be used to invest in highways. Exactly, we don't have anything against it, but what's being asked as a key question and what nobody in Croatia can give at this time is going to be how much or how much these 75 billion that are now in the second pension column, what is going to be worth in that 100 billion 2020 or those 220 billion 2030. Can anyone here tell you how much those shares or other securities that are being invested in are going to be worth? I say no one can. And all those stories that say that pensions, given the second pillar, will grow by 10, 20 or more years, don't have a foothold in any mathematical calculation, but what we know reliably is that it's going to be more public debt by as much as it's going to be invested there along with those interest rates that are. So we have a very simple logic. This year in the second pension column, we're going to pay 5 billion and 200 million kuna cash, and we're going to give about 2.5 billion cash for interest money that we could make something with. In 10 and 20 years, what's being invested in now we don't know what it's worth. Maybe he won't do anything. So a whole series of countries that went to the second pension pillar, and they were forced by the same ones as they forced them to, and Croatia has already given up on the second pension column. This is not in the function of cheerleading to end but this is in the function of opening up such a story as soon as possible and here in this House of Commons, and that, without fans' passions, without political interest goes to what would be of interest to the pensioners, and that is to try to find the best solution for both the Republic of Croatia and the future pensioners because this is how we fought to be ourselves in the 1990s, it seems to me that through the second pension pillar we can easily happen to not be ourselves anymore. That's what we have to look after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u290	Thank you very much. So now we're going to the first point. Thank you very much. So now we're going to the first point. As announced, this is - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 for the needs of national minorities The Report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 37. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. You received the materials in the box. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You also received their report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Here you go. Deputy Deputy Justice Minister Ms. Barica Novosel. Otherwise, there are representatives and all the other relevant ministries I welcome, so if there are any questions, I am at your disposal. Here you go, Mrs. Novosel.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4538	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of the resources provided by national minorities in the State budget for 2014 shows adequate progress in the exercise of the rights of national minorities secured by the Constitutional Law. Further positive developments have been achieved in the area of cultural autonomy of national minorities, education and language and letter of national minorities in the implementation of the national strategy for Roma inclusion for the period from 2013 to 2020 and the associated action plan, then on the area of development of tolerance towards diversity and combating discrimination. The implementation of the Constitutional Law made significant efforts, as can be seen in the fact that, despite the continued trend of the adverse economic and social situation for the implementation of the Constitutional Law in 2014 a significantly higher amount of funding was spent compared to the previous year. No significant progress has been made in the area of the exercise of the right to the equal official use of minority language and letter during 2014. National minorities did not use the right to use their language and letters in procedures before local self-government authorities as well as in procedures before state authorities, but a significant increase in the number of judicial proceedings conducted in the language of the national minority was made compared to 2013. An analysis of the state of compliance of the statutes of the unit of local self-government with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia has shown that 27 units of locality which are obliged to comply with those regulations alone 12 have not detailedly elaborated the exercise of the right of individual until 5 units of local self-government have regulated their statutes to exercise the rights in question. In the next period Amendments to the Act on the Official Use of the Language and Letters of the National Minority to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is bound, the Constitutional Court is expected to ensure a uniform and detailed constitutional arrangement of the rights of members of national minorities to the official and public use of their language and thus a great deal of exercise of their rights. In the area of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities and during 2014, a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law has been ensured. A successful education of students in the course performed in general in the language and letter of national minorities and an increasing number of students included learning of the language and culture of national minorities. In October 2014 the Croatian Parliament adopted the Strategy for Education of Science and Technology, which includes both curricula and teaching programmes in the language and letter of national minorities. Special efforts have been made to raise and educate members of the Roma national minority. For children of members of the Roma national minority, continued inclusion in pre-school education programmes is ensured and to bridge the gap between the social economic situation in which children members of the Roma national minority live and opportunities for their successful integration during compulsory primary school education. Over the past six years, there has been a steady increase in Roma children's coverage through primary education. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports continuously provides significant funds for scholarships, home accommodation, additional activities, prom, school supervisor's work, scholarships and the like. And the funds are also provided for scholarships to all students of Roma national minorities seeking it. Realising the rights of national minorities to access public media during 2014 because of insufficient media presentation of minority activities and content is not satisfactory. HRT did not fulfil the obligations arising from the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2017, both as regards the share of that content in the entire television programme and as regards the quality of the content. The analysis of activities carried out during 2014 aimed at ensuring the cultural autonomy of national minorities indicates the systematic promotion of national minorities and their active and equal contribution to cultural life. In 2014 through the Ministry of Culture, increased funding from 2013 was financed by the equipment of libraries, news and literary publishing activities, musical stage activities and cultural artistic amateurism, art, film activities, international cultural cooperation, archival and museum-galery activities, as well as the protection of cultural protection of national minorities. The programmes of a number of minority associations and institutions in 2014 were financed by significant funds through the Council for National Minorities. With regard to representation of members of national minorities in state administration bodies, professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2014 compared to 2013, a reduction in percentage section from 3.51 to 3.49 is visible. A little, but it should be considered that the total number of civil servants and tenants decreased by 4%. Reduced employment opportunities in the state service were generally affected by decisions to ban the new employment of civil servants and deputies in state administration bodies, professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2009 and 2014. In 2014, despite the unfavourable economic situation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia financed council and representatives' programmes in local units of less economic development, and will continue to make sure that the state budget plans are made for that purpose. During this reporting period, it has been observed that a smaller number of council members and representatives continue to show no more significant interest in functioning and work, that they do not draw up annual work plans and do not submit requests for funding from the budget of the unit of self-government and that they do not provide adequate reports. In order to achieve full involvement of councils and representatives in public life and local affairs management in the coming period, it will continue to take action to raise the level of efficiency of councils and representatives as well as local units. The implementation of the National Strategy for Roma Integration for the period 2013 to 2020 and the associated action plan according to data from competent authorities have seen further progress in the integration of Roma national minorities into society at all levels, and the increasing involvement of Roma national minority members themselves in the activities that contribute to this. The activities aimed at making Roma children more involved in the education system, improving health and health protection of the Roma population, increasing employment, improving housing conditions as well as implementing other measures aimed at addressing the difficulties encountered by the Roma national minority. In December 2014, an independent mid-term evaluation of the implementation of the National Strategy and Action Plan with the aim of assessing the extent to which these documents contribute or contribute to the inclusion of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia and the results will be available in 2016. A draft new National Anti-discrimination Plan for the period 2015 to 2020 has been developed in the area of developing tolerance towards diversity and combating discrimination in 2014. The new national plan aims to further encourage the implementation of different measures aimed at combating discrimination in all significant areas of life defined by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. A number of seminars, round tables, consultations held in 2014 contributed to the further fight against prejudice, stereotypes, discrimination and segregation of national minorities. In particular, the introduction of education on the implementation of the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, the implementation of education on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and the continuation of the national campaign do not talk about hate on the Internet. In the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out a number of activities in 2014 aimed at making the rights of members of national minorities more fully exercised. The implementation of the Constitutional Law in 2014 spent 144 million kuna, which is an increase of 7 million kuna compared to the previous 2013 year. The Government takes note of the conclusions of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities and will make every effort to submit a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities as soon as possible in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4539	Thank you very much. If he wants a reporter, and I'm sorry, we have one replica of the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4540	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while. Madam Deputys, in your opening statement, you said that speaking the language and letters of the national minorities that the situation would be improved when the Croatian Assembly, based on the Constitutional Court Decision and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, would adopt amendments to the Law on the use of language and letters of national minorities, so I wanted to ask if you had any information on the agenda, or if it could be referred to and what was in the first reading in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, would be different if you had that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4541	Here you go. They'll be answered by a respected deputy justice minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4542	I said in my final statement that we are taking note of the proposal from the Committee on National Minorities and that the Government will do its utmost to prepare as soon as possible. I can't tell you what's going to be in that law and... He has yet to prepare, but as soon as possible he will be prepared. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4543	Thank you very much. The committee reporter expressed his desire to take a word for it. It will be the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the distinguished representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This report is very extensive and I'm just going to read certain parts, and otherwise you have it on the table and I hope that there will be an incentive for the debate is unusually long, long this report and I won't read it all over here. This report was considered by the Committee on Rights, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities as a home working body in accordance with Article 79. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In particular, the debate pointed out the need to change the impression that is present in the public when it comes to laws governing the rights of national minorities. As pointed out, it is often pointed out that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is one of the best legal solutions to minority issues at EU level, and that this area is well regulated at the legislative level. However, some members of the Committee have made an assessment that following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, there has been a stalemate in implementing certain provisions and legal solutions. It is particularly pointed out that reporting on the minority problem cannot be viewed only through grants from the state budget, which only raises this extremely complex area to the issue of budgetary allocations. I mean, minorities aren't cost. And rarely, minorities are represented as a budgetary burden. It also draws attention to the fact that the Deputy Minister of Justice said that budget allocations for national minorities amount to only 5.4% of total exposures to civil society. If it is considered that the share of members of national minorities is, it was added to the committee, in the population of the Republic of Croatia 7.6%, then it is not possible to talk about large budget allocations for the exercise of the rights of national minorities. The debate also found that the proposed report shows satisfactory progress in achieving the rights of national minorities. This is the most done in the following areas: education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, the achievement of the cultural autonomy of national minorities, the exercise of the religious rights of national minorities, representation of members of national minorities in the representative and executive bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government and the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma inclusion. Of course, this has been underlined by some members while many others have critically looked back on such conclusions as these resulting from this report. However, the proposed report has been repeating for many years the same problems in the exercise of certain rights, with minor corrections in particular in the areas of the use of language and letter of national minorities, the access of national minorities to public communications, representation of members of national minorities in state administration bodies, the authorities of the judicial authority and local and regional (regional) administrations. As you can see, some areas are highlighted as areas of progress, and on the other hand, the other MPs, particularly national minorities, have said that there are the biggest impasses here. It has also been pointed out that the issue of the constitutional arrangements for the exercise of the right to equal official use in the language and letter of national minorities in local units remains slow. The other clubs will certainly draw attention to this, so I will read in the end only the conclusion that we have reached on the need to, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's conclusion, change the Law on the Use of the Language of National Minorities. I'll read that in the end. When it comes to this issue, it has been pointed out that it is not only about the failure of local self-government through the application of legal solutions but also about other bodies. It is once again pointed out to the non-compliance with the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, Article 10, by the Croatian Roads, which, in addition to your legal obligations and requests of the local self-government units, has not been setting bilingual traffic signs and other traffic codes for years. The board members agreed with the assessment of the Council for National Minorities and the exercise of the right of national minorities to access public media during 2014 is unsatisfactory because of insufficient media presentation of minority activities and content. It was pointed out that HRT did not fulfil the obligations arising from the contract between the Croatian Croatian Government for the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2017, both with regard to the share of that content in the entire television programme and with regard to the quality of the content. As regards the law on guaranteed representation of members of national minorities in state, local and judicial authorities, it is pointed out that members of national minorities achieved their representation in the Croatian Parliament and in the local elections held in 2013 the full right of representation in the representative and executive bodies of the local and regional self-government units. However, representation of members of national minorities in state administration authorities has been highlighted by the deputy minister, professional services and government offices in 2014 from 3.57% to 3.49%. A little, but still a cut. In this context, it should be pointed out that there was a reduction in the total number of civil servants and subsistence workers during that period. It has been concluded that the work of councils and representatives of national minorities still do not provide the necessary assumptions. The funds allocated to their work from the state budget are insufficient for significant activities while the participation of municipalities, cities and counties is at the most low level. The area of law at the end of the protection of the Roma national minority is specifically presented in the report. And of course, action plans, strategies, etc. are always highlighted. However, the debate stressed that it often loses sight of all the complexity of the problems faced by the minority, which are in the greatest volume related to the exercise of the right to employment, education, housing and health protection. Finally, after the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes of 8 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: 1. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 for the needs of national minorities is hereby adopted. 2. It is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a proposal to the Croatian Parliament within 90 days to amend and supplement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, as of 12 August 2014 published in the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia. 104. 2014 Thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4545	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate and the first to appear is the Club of Representatives HRID and Shandoor Juhasa. So I'd like to ask the honourable representative of Shandor Juhas to come to the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4546	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, in a few words, I'm going to try to put out the way I look at this report. Well, the report was passed, submitted in accordance with whether or not, the law and it is submitted every year. It is correctly written, some ministries gave their reports, everything was collected in one place, problems were considered, recommendations given, some progress is visible. However, problems or part of the problem remain, they continue to accumulate and as time moves away and as more and more minority communities are organised, more and more problems arise. The discussions are becoming more and more intense, each number interprets in its own way, we call for what we do not know enough and what is not even explained by the legal regulations in quality and to the end. We are often called on to have within European frameworks appropriate minority laws and in fact there are a number of problems that all this time could not be solved and worse still, we have not sanctioned those who do not want to solve them. Let's find out something that's wrong and then stop there, take no further steps. So we have discussions every year in front of the high school and elementary school about the number of children needed to form a department in minority schools, although the Constitutional Court has already resolved this many days ago. There is a waste of time and energy, it is explained, arguments and counterarguments are used, and then it creates dilemmas in the public and creates one false perception of minorities in society. So let's say the question of minority associations that are usually organized into roof associations, alliances, which are not really known by the law, and then everyone is talking about associations and it's actually about associations that gather then and dozens of associations. These associations, alliances, words, depends on what alliance they call them, perform a whole series of tasks for minority communities, so often they are the only founder of the population of a settlement and they seem amazing things. Things no one would ever think an association should do or an alliance should do. Because they have to actually service everything that happens in their minority community or in certain areas. I know one association that takes care of logos which is certainly not their task, takes care of training in one Hungarian village, in another Croatian village, because there are such. All kinds of training is done regarding the tradition of national minorities. The event is organized, it takes care of cooperation with other minority communities and even with parent countries, performs public works, keeps cultural heritage safe. Well, there's a more ethnic house, a collection of antiques, etc., and it's trying to get it all into some kind of museum system. It conducts elections, takes care of the distribution of social assistance in these settlements, cultural or cultural homes in these settlements are held because they are the only institutions where something can be provided in these settlements. Take care and organize even religious celebrations, publish books, publish newspapers, take care of radio shows, and have their own TV show. Well, that's one broad spectrum of everything and everything that minority associations have to do, which must also be done by minority associations. And then it's normal to be on the verge of the law because simply no one predicted that it was all to be done. And then the question arises, there are dilemmas about what is a minority problem and what is the problem of the people of this country who are paying taxes neatly and should exercise their rights in all areas of life, education, religion, culture, sport, use of municipal infrastructure, etc. Is the problem of the minority only a minority or the inhabitants of that area, the citizens of Croatia? No one has ever dealt with this question but everyone knows how to comment on it and have their own opinions especially when it's said that so many kunas have been obtained for the realization of minority problems. However, is the problem of the Hungarian minority, is the minority issue of a school in a village where everyone speaks Hungarian and many do not speak Croatian and where children do not know how to connect 5 words in Croatian and learn Croatian as a foreign language when they come to school at the age of 7? Or is it the obligation of this country to enable the education of all its inhabitants? Is the minority question in a population of about 300 and where Hungarian is always spoken and all speak Hungarian and few speak Croatian and located in a municipality that does not have 33% of the population of Hungarians, so they do not have the right to use language and letters to place a record with a street sign in Hungarian or is it an obligation for society to enable its citizens to do so? Is it a minority question to hire someone who knows the Hungarian language in the government's office so he can write a Hungarian name or issue some kind of document without error? Is it a minority question to hire a doctor in a village of 900 inhabitants, where you will not find 10% of the population who can explain in Croatian what hurts them or is the obligation of the state to ensure health care for the people who have been singled out for years for funds. Whether the minority problem is the restoration of the reform church in Lasslova, which has been devastated in the war and has been improving for 20 years. Whether minority problems are road connections to electricity etc. Or that's the problem of the state. Clearly, this problem is not yet sufficiently seen and most of the problems arise from this ignorance, misunderstanding, or false understanding, or simply from stupidity. We were happy, so we'd be happy if they weren't minority problems and they weren't in some parts of our country, they weren't treated like minority problems but unfortunately in many areas they're still treated that way. And there's something else that's often misunderstood or he won't or won't know, and it'll be sooner not to know. Some minorities who have been operating in these areas since World War I have received great help from their home countries and during that time have been built many schools, many churches, many cultural homes, many municipal infrastructures that have funded their home countries, which have become components or have become the property of all those municipalities, cities or simply the Republic of Croatia. So there's also one important material contribution from our queens, and that problem should also be mentioned here and there, so that there's not just a story that we're just looking for, we're just getting something, but they're certainly giving out minorities. Our society is in transition, our country is young and some minorities that were constituent nations must be organized in a new way, and the public must reconcile with the fact that minorities have not fallen from Mars and that in some areas they have lived for more than 1,000 years and that we are all, in fact, part of this society. It is obvious that this process will continue and that the development of society and the problem of integration of national minorities will prevail or we will become even stronger and create tensions in society. It's not just our problem. This is also a problem for European countries, because the integration of minorities is becoming an increasingly recent problem in those developed democracies where we thought it was simply gone. We are witnessing poor integration of minority communities in large cities of Europe and no one can claim that the successful integration of African populations in Brussels, Paris or Pakistanis is in London. It is that these are incomparable things, but the question of minorities is becoming something that needs far more attention. This report says it represents satisfactory progress, how positive developments are seen and how significant efforts have been made. And the truth is, certain shifts are seen, and reducing the effort, work, and efforts that have been made certainly wouldn't be wrong. There's room for progress, there's room for something better to be made, and we have to make bigger progress. I am pleased that 144 million were spent to implement the Constitutional Law in 2014 which represents progress compared to 2013. We'll see what the 2016 budget will bring. But I repeat, there's everything involved. There are also churches and schools and associations and all that in a certain way is financed in the area, in a particular area of national minorities. I am not satisfied with the fact that no significant progress has been recorded in the area of the exercise of the right to use the official minority language and letter evenly in 2014. The more the level of the exercise of that right remained at a very, very low, almost negligible level. I hope the report will show greater progress in 2015, and I am even more hopeful about the new law that should be passed, the Law on the Application of Language and Letters of National Minorities. The harmonisation of the Statute of units of local self-government with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is another area where progress is needed. For years, the number 27 has been repeated, so 12 units have installed something, and now we see that 5 units of local self-government have not installed anything in their statutes on this issue at all, which is mandatory, is the implementation of the Constitutional Law Action Plan. I agree with the Council's assessment that the exercise of minority rights to access to public media in 2014 is unsatisfactory and that HRT failed to fulfil the obligations arising from the contract signed with the Government in relation to the content of the national minorities. With regard to the employment of national minorities in state administration authorities, according to the 2014 data, the minority accounts for 3.51% of employees in state administration bodies, down from 0.17% compared to 2013, so that the set target of 5.5% of the total number of employees in state bodies does not seem to be achieved. There is also a problem with the ban on employment in the sector, but we cannot be satisfied with that number of 3.51 employees and I think it will also need to make more significant progress. As regards the councils and representatives of national minorities in the units of local and regional self-government of the Council for National Minorities, it proposes to grant the status of a non-profit legal entity to representatives by amending the Law on the Register of Councils, coordination and representatives of national minorities. This proposal we absolutely support and I think it's important that he gets rid of it. We have drastic cases of violations of that law and we have cases that legislative regulation is not good, there are no harmonised regulations and the question of representatives especially in the City of Zagreb is a key issue for the further organisation of minorities in the City of Zagreb where we also had a situation that a representative of the German national minority simply moved out of Zagreb because he was given the unsettled and unregulated status of carrying out bookkeeping to the house. The man resigned, left the country, and said thank you, I will no longer deal with it. The issue of the OIB, the issue of bookkeeping, is a key issue as far as representatives and councils are concerned. The councils have been resolved, the representatives have not been resolved and this is already four mandates. Not to mention election law for councils and representatives who have also not been passed here but in the fourth term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4547	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4548	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have expressed some dissatisfaction with the situation that is repeated when you create a registration policy in primary and secondary schools. We know that registration quotas or parameters for the formation of class departments are prescribed by certain documents, but that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in some way derogates all of what is prescribed to say so "normal" classrooms in primary and secondary schools. However, whatever these situations are, they are a bit of a pain in the ass and they leave a bitter taste in the mouth in the public themselves, the facts that we have the opportunity to see in these reports are actually in favour of each year, so now if we compete with the school year 2013/2014. in respect of 2014/2015, the year the number of grade departments or kindergarten groups increases. So we're in 2013/2014. from the total number of kindergartens and classrooms which was 964 in 2014/2015. For years, we've recorded a rise. Thus, when we look at a small structure, preschool education and education, so from 2013/2014. We now have 99 compared to 86, in primary education in 2013/2014. We had 714 classrooms and now we have 741 in 2014/2015. And in high school too, therefore, the total number of classrooms for children who follow language classes and the letter of national minorities, regardless of whether it is model A, B or C, we also record a rise. My only regret is that, in primary education and education, we actually record a slight gap, or reduction in model A, just as the Hungarian national minority is concerned. But I believe that this trend of increasing the number of children will also be held in this school year 2015/2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4549	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Shandor Juhas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4550	Thank you for this question, you've actually made it possible for me to give another example of how the minority communities work. I've listed what minority communities do and what they do. minority associations that are very often on criticism or exposed to criticism because people don't know. The issue of education, we, for example, launched a project in the Hungarian community that we called "Children's playbooks". These casinos were funded for several years by the financing of the Hungarian state and then we managed to enter funding from the Ministry of Education, but the part relating to associations. And those playrooms worked in those areas where there was no Hungarian school to say so, where classes were not conducted according to the C model and where there were no kindergartens. And thanks to these games, so thanks to our work that could not be published anywhere, which no one has ever funded except the Hungarian government or through any individual competitions for associations, we have in the past 5 years started the education of children by C model in Marinci, Stari Jankovci, Čakovci, Bjelovar, Grubišni polje, Velika rijenica, Dežanovac and Split. Eight new educational institutions, not educational institutions, but in eight cities and settlements we started learning Hungarian because parents asked for it. So the work of minority communities has contributed to that. That's the point of what you don't often understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4551	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4552	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my dear colleague, I agree with you when you say that minority problems are not minority problems. Members of the national minority sea problems that all citizens of our country have to deal with. They're also unemployed, they also provide for their family, they go to school, they go to college, they go to school, they look for work, etc. So the problems of minorities me and you would not underline it as the problems of minorities but as the problems of our citizens who are, however, members of a particular national minority. Minority isn't the cost either, as you said yourself. Minorities must begin to be seen as our wealth and yet the Republic of Croatia has made some commitments towards minorities living in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of some bilateral agreements. The country's queen's contribution is also not disproportionate. Here, if we are talking specifically about the Hungarian national minority, correct me if I am wrong but the educational cultural centre of Hungary in Osijek is built with the money of the Hungarian state and the same as the facilities in Korođa, as many other infrastructure facilities which of course can be used by the majority people. And you mentioned that Hungarian not government associations, or government organizations, often revolves around them the entire social life of a smaller community. For example, in Novi Bezdan or in Kotlina where I also had the opportunity to see where the entire social but every other life of the community revolves around the Hungarian association. And when we talk about schooling, that's where we've reached a high level, but we've got problems. Let's say that the founder, in this case the county does not want to transfer the founding rights to the municipality requested by the municipality, so that a particular school becomes a minority school regardless of the fact that 90% of the population in the municipalities mentioned are members of national minorities. So there are problems that we need to talk about and what are the real problems of members of national minorities, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4553	Thank you for answering the honourable representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4554	Well, Mr. Hajdukovic, I think you've made a very good point of that fact that we're actually residents of this country, that we're paying an orderly tax here, that we're exercising our rights but we also have some specificities that this country needs in a certain way because others have in other countries, and in our home countries there's a whole series, not a whole series, but there's a Croatian minority that is then financed there by the principle of reciprocity with those where there are signed bilateral contracts. A bilateral agreement on the protection of the rights of national minorities was signed between Croatia and Hungary. Each year, joint meetings are to be held or held where priorities are then set out which should be financed by the Croatian state in Croatia and which the Hungarian state should finance or provide for the Croatian minority in Hungary. There are a whole series of institutions in Pečuh that are related to Hungarian Croats. There's high school, there's high school and there's elementary school, there's even theater. When the Educational Cultural Centre of Hungary was built in Croatia at the same time or shortly before, a large complex ended in Budapest where the kindergarten and elementary school and secondary school were also held and which actually functioned in the entire cultural life of Hungary, not Hungary, but the Croatians of northern Hungary. And I think that's the way, that's exactly what this cooperation is, and that's why, and because of these and bilateral agreements, and because of good cooperation, we need to continue to support and go in that direction. But we can't lose sight that we're here, we pay taxes, we live here, we exercise our rights, and that's where we contribute to our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4555	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDSS and Reformers and will speak on his behalf the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4556	My colleagues and colleagues. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is always an opportunity for minorities to analyse and implement constitutional law as a fundamental act governing certain specific rights of minority communities in the Republic of Croatia and the activities of official policies that have either implemented or failed to implement what was prescribed by law, action plans, government decisions and other binding documents. And this report, as before, is almost the same as in previous years. We can almost convince the facts of the '13s and '12s report, and we can see that the shifts in the performance of the categories and obligations set out in the constitutional law are almost at the same level every year. Maybe it won't like it when you hear it. It would obviously be much more interesting to boast that progress has been made and how we as a society have matured in some democratic standards compared to minority communities but we minority communities cannot say that. We can't tell right away is a great time, 2014, today is 2016. Many years have passed since some stressful situations and it is expected that this relationship between the state and minority communities is almost entirely in office. That's why we can't get the impression that when we give certain qualifications, we can say that the general legislation relating to minority communities is, for example, well set up. However, we must also say that now, after so many years, there is still one light and some segments, even targeted obstruction in the implementation of certain legal obligations. So we cannot be taken away from the impression that a set of minority regulations was well described at the time when it was due to enter the European Union. Now that we have entered the EU and here I point out that the very important fact was the positive attitude of members of national minorities towards EU accession, especially towards the closure of Chapter 23. - Justice and human rights. Now that we've done this job, we're going back to the beginning of a story in certain segments of public life and certain relationships towards minority communities. It is also worrying when we analyse this data and see that it is an incredible ease to avoid the enforcement of those legal obligations, i.e. the legal norms directly related to the problems of minority communities are being violated. So that's what's been said here about the uncoordinated statutes of minority, or local self-government units. The question arises as to how it is possible that now, in 2016 or in 2014 this period is observed, however, still some local self-government and their chiefs, their councils as serious political bodies did not agree their Statutes. Let's leave the fact that we agree on the Statute. I ask the question, how is it possible that we as a society tolerate serious politics at local level, because the chiefs are serious people breaking the laws by not fulfilling it for so long, but breaking it. Well, of course, we have a situation where, in certain environments where the majority Serb population is and is exercising the rights of the Constitutional Law to its identification, i.e. to mark and its linguistic identification through traffic signs, vertical signalling or otherwise, we still have the phenomenon that in one Bobota, Trpinj, Udbini, Lapca, despite the Council and Policy decision and requires citizens to put bilingual tables at the entrance we do not do so. We can't and we say no, it's not our fault, it's Croatian roads because those vertical signals can't be written on Cyrillic. What kind of company are we? That after 20 years we still think it's dangerous for the entry into the Lower Lapac to write with the Cyrillic Donji Lapac, and at the same time in Istria with our Italian friends is also written in Italian. With me in Baranja, the inscriptions in my municipality are written in Hungarian and no one considers it a problem, no one considers it a social danger or some kind of social pollution. Only when it comes to Cyrillic and when it comes to the right of some Serb community out there especially in the east, especially in Lica, then that's the problem, then a hundred moral problems arise. For me, the basic question is whether we will finally start applying the rules in the same way as is applied everywhere in EU cultural countries. We can also talk when we talk about public media, we can specifically talk about the hate speech that has now become a trend, a creamer, a desirable thing that on the opposite side of hate speech are members of national minorities especially Serbs. But if the public service and public television do not fulfil the contractual obligations of the contract that it has concluded with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I have been taught that the basic principle of the act... So contracts have to be executed, then I ask the question how is it possible that in a series of reports we're finding it and that nothing is moving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is likely that these contracts will not be executed even in the next period, as the subject of these contracts is the correct emergence of the problem of national minorities in public media. It's the subject of these contracts, so they're not executed. Correct reporting on the problem of national minorities in public media. If someone thinks that an hour and 28 minutes is how many total national minorities have been processed during the year in public media, or in information space, if that's enough then I have no comment on it and so many statistics show that it is. Also, when I ask the question of not implementing the law, it is completely unclear to me how today, we had a debate on the Committee on Human Rights on School Registration yesterday. Education is a fundamental matter for national minorities to manifest and maintain their identity and there is no need for majority people to fear these facts. This should not be feared, but it should be possible for that fact to develop as well as possible. How it is possible that only members of the Serb community have no right to register schools in Serbian and letter in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, while at the same time having colleagues from the Czechs, both fellow Hungarians and colleagues of the Italians. All of this is prescribed by their statutes, all of which the ministry has accepted, schools are registered. Only the Serbs can't. And then we change the Law on Education, change Article 96 and say that local self-government where one third of the members of the Serb community have the right to use language, their native language and letter, have the right to ask the county, the competent county to transfer founding rights to primary schools. Three municipalities in eastern Slavonia Borovo, Markusica and Negoslavci make a political decision on their councils, accept the cost of taking the founding rights. Instructions last year, in the second month, a request from Vukovar-Srijem County and Vukovar-Srijem County so far, will not put that point on the agenda of its county assembly. How is it possible that no one is responding, that we do not have any sanctions for such a violation of the law? Or are we not making the law for targeted use? It's about one thing. It's not about the other. What we're going to do now is get out of this path-position when three municipalities are looking to take over the founding rights for schools, and the county is going to go in and say no because some bozos are fighting there, which is what Serbs and Croats are fighting for, and we're not going to transfer the founding rights. Is that state policy? Is that a reasonable policy? Is that an education policy? And then we say there is a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The question of who and the question of how? What hurts the most is employment by members of the national minorities. We had action plans on employment, we made great commitments to ourselves how we would make someone proportionately employed, etc. And then we have the fact that in the judiciary, very few members of the Serb community and otherwise national minorities are working and it's almost impossible to hire a new one because first they can't practice. The first thing he has to do can't be the first obstacle, so he can't handle it. So that's where we created the barrier. I can talk here about the situation in the MUP. How many police officers work for members of the Serb community in the Zadar Police Administration of 1,100 police officers 3 are Serbs. In Sisak-Moslavina, of 1112 police officers, 22 are members of the Serb community. Some more, I guess, in Vukovar, it's probably the rest of the peaceful reintegration, so people couldn't be eliminated, but it's being ruled out in the further process in a way that those who went into retirement are not employed by Serbs. And thus the participation of members of the Serbian community in the MUP is quietly reduced. Which, of course, is not good, which is, of course, contrary to some international obligations and some normal human standards. We haven't settled the status of the National Minority Council. After 15 years we said you have the right to a minority community. We haven't arranged the status of these councils, they're still in an unsettled state. We didn't set the funds for them. Any local self-government can prescribe and give as much funds as it wants, so you have a range of 0 kunas to 100 thousand kunas and more depends on who has a political combination with those councils of national minorities. Which, of course, is not good because it reduces the authenticity of these councils. I also can't say that I can't be indifferent, I've already talked about it when we talked about the financing of political parties, about the review report, I don't understand how it can happen that the financing of political parties is prescribed by law. And then the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, our committee, makes a different decision, interprets the law differently. We change the law in 2014, we prescribe exactly who has the right to finance and under what conditions, members of the minority community or minority candidates, and we say that they must only be elected as either party members or as independent candidates. We, on the board, revote it with political, political will, make a different decision against the law. It's the essence of things. And that's what we as members of the minority community as minorities want to get in line. We respect the rules, in certain segments, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia has high standards in relation to minority issues, but this legislation is not implemented. Somewhere by chance, somewhere rich even on purpose. Somewhere it becomes part of politics and local and regional and state policies. And that's the problem. I could analyze here another set of data that was correctly made in this report because each of these reports was properly done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4557	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4558	But if we don't change the essence of access to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, then this data doesn't mean much to us either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4559	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4560	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Horvat through your debate is visible that a stronger decentralisation from the national level related to local administrations is indeed needed. I'll remind you, you said in the debate that on the Croatian roads, and you somehow accused some local mayors and mayors of it, I have no intention of defending them, but I want to explain it to you. Indeed, the roads in certain areas of local administrations are shared on unclassified roads for which the local administration heads, county roads for which the heads of regional administrations or counties and of course Croatian roads are responsible, which you explicates here mention of bilinguality of the boards, and Croatian roads are the jurisdiction and authority of indeed Croatian roads or national levels of government. So I remind you once again, and through your debate it is visible, that it is really necessary and necessary to decentralisation, greater decentralisation at local levels, and mainly in the maintenance of roads regardless of the rank to which they refer, because every citizen of any nationality will accuse the local administration's leader and if there is some kind of incompetence or no God-given traffic incident on the roads and will not consider whose duty it is. Unfortunately, it's the duty of one whose rank the roads belong to. Therefore, I have no intention of defending once more local leaders but stronger decentralisation in certain segments, mainly municipal infrastructure is needed to make these roads necessary, regardless of whether the bilinguality of the board or other maintenance is necessary and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4561	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4562	Dear colleague, we are advocates of stronger decentralisation because practice and experience says that the pre-centralised system is not good, it is not efficient, it is trom, it does not respond to daily and annual tasks etc.. So we are advocates of decentralisation but we need to have a serious debate about this and say what is the model of decentralisation. About what you said about the responsibility of the head of local self-government to set up a vertical signalling. I wouldn't remember that the local self-government leaders were responsible because they did their part of the job, so they conducted a particular political campaign and questioned the mood of people and made a political decision to put up such a signalling. And where does the problem arise? There is a problem in the Croatian roads that have an answer, they would tell me but our internal acts prohibit us from putting a Cyrillic letter on vertical signalling. So it can also write Chinese, it can write any other language just can't be Cyrillic because in acts of a state-owned company called the Croatian Road does not stand. And everyone says we have a good will but the form is holding us back. And that form has been holding us back for 20 years. And now, let's say, if we're going to adapt that form to life, we'll either make it possible or we won't, or it'll still be that way. That's not a good message. It's not a good message and it doesn't cost us anything and it doesn't make any social danger, it should be kind of a positive, general social solution. As you can see from the Italian, Hungarian, Czech, when you enter certain areas I see no reason why Udbina, Donji Lapac, Markusic, Borovo would not write with Cyrillic. I don't see any reason why it should bother who else that thing has offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4563	Thank you very much. Here, dear fellow MPs and representatives, it is our pleasure to welcome and welcome the delegation of the Military and Diplomatic Assembly accredited to the Republic of Croatia who are staying for a working visit to our Committee on Defence of the Croatian Parliament. Well, let's say hello. Here and now we have to move on. [[Applause]] The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Horvat wanted to look back on the problems you've highlighted in school first of all. And in the debate on the board, we have highlighted this, therefore, the goal of integrating children and the goal of having children members of national minorities and majority people attend schools together is certainly commendable, and this is the goal that we all seek. But integration, if we talk about this sense, about some model C or something like that, can't be violent. So she can't be handled by someone else. The more I talked to some of the residents of the mentioned municipalities that you mentioned yourself and who said that they wanted their children to go to school in the language and letter of the national minority. The other thing is that some parents don't want it, but if there's political will, if most people want it, I really don't see what the problem is. There's an example of a new Vukovar school that started as a project... in Osijek and will now be financed by a country that advocates model C, so that all students go to language and letter in Croatian but have one hour of teaching that is called if I do not cheat on language and cultural heritage of the country where to learn about languages, letters, customs of all national minorities living in that area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The more you mention the municipalities that you listed, the more I mentioned in the replica, the more than 90, only one less than 90% of the population are just members of the Serb national minority. I really don't see the problem in letting them take over their founding rights. We have reached such a conclusion on the board, I hope that this will be resolved, that this will no longer be disputed because there have been some doubts about the majority people, or that members of the majority people will be teaching. They don't change anything, they keep going in their own language and letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4565	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4566	Thank you. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, you gave us support on the board yesterday in solving this problem, I thank you once again and I see that you have entered the problem and are trying to understand the position of the minority community in the field of education. I think we should say the basic thing here. As a legalist, I don't want to politicize about it. I just want the law to be implemented. If we have held a very serious debate here at the 2014 Education Law Amendment, and we have pointed to all possible aspects and positive and negative and everyone has given their opinion on this relationship. And if we brought an amendment to the '96 article. This law, prescribed by three cumulative conditions that must be met by local self-government in order to transfer founding rights to them, they also assumed financial obligations to maintain these schools, there is a will of parents who clearly said that they want their children to go after A model to be educated, they want the school to be called so and so on and have the character and official registration of the Serbian school, I see no reason why then the competent county in this case Vukovar-Srijemska obstructs it, unless it has a political reason, practical, formal legal no. So I can interpret it as the political basis of such an obstruction because it lasts for a year and a half. And probably by the end of this year this founding law will not be passed on to these three municipalities, the new school year will, the enrollment will end. The whole story becomes groundless by next year. I call, I call only, I appeal to obeying the laws that have been passed here in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia whether they are willing or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4567	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Horvat, the fact that there are problems in law enforcement regarding minorities. However, the same is the fact that Croatia is a democratic country and has high standards, so much greater than many countries in the Croatian environment, as well as in the EU. However, I think there are much bigger problems, and counterpart Hajdukovic also said a little before and the majority and minority peoples are infrastructure, unemployment regardless of quotas, not quotas, otherwise I say that because I live together in a place where the Serb national minority is. People have a hard time living the same way most people do. I'll tell you again. You can't get people buried with dignity because there's no access route. I'm warning you one more time, so react because you've got your representatives down there. You solve the problem of people on the ground, and every nation's minorities are rich, we all know that, and we all believe that, it's unquestionable, it's real life on the ground. Because there's too much theater and there's too much of it, some kind of introduction, so I won't say doubts between the majority and the minority. I think relations are good where I live, but your role as a representative of the national minority must be much better. And MOST towards countries other our national minorities where they live, in Serbia, irrelevant, and also here in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, not where you come from. People have a hard time living like most people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4569	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4570	Dear colleague, I thank you for this report on the situation of the Serb minority, that is, the way they live. We know that because we've been doing this for 20 years, maybe better than you. You're pointing to the fact that there's no cemetery there, there's no roads to some Orthodox cemetery. And now you're in power at the state level, otherwise it's a local self-government problem. The city of Sinj should allocate some funds, and if it can't be in its budget, we'll contact and we'll ask the competent ministry to give some money to the city of Sinj, because it can do the same, otherwise can't. I can't as a member of the Serb community bring you money for that thing, it's a groundless story. So local self-government needs to take care of the standard of all citizens as well as the standard of Serbs. You're on the move now, you've got a chance, so we'll see if you can make those differences right. I was talking about the overall position of the Serb community in the context of today's report. I think I'm quite invited and quite relevant to talk about it because we've been doing it together with our colleagues for years and we've been dealing with this pain. And it's not any demagogy, but the fact is that today 2016, in some segments of these relationships, we haven't moved as much as they say about Ioto. And we have to admit that. And if it were different areas with different standards, we know it best, we know it best and it's about a space that requires special intervention of the state, financial intervention and many others, that it's just to give the same chance of living for those people, in these places as people in other parts of Croatia richer and more developed, but it's a special story.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4571	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4572	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This is the 11th edition of the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the expenditure on the budget of the Republic of Croatia for their needs in front of the plenary session of this House. Although we like to call it constitutional law and whale it by constitutional category, it's actually an organic law, an organic law, but that's why nothing less important. But what my colleagues have already claimed before me, it is unfortunate, in fact, that during all the years that we are discussing this report, problems tend to remain the same. So, getting ready for this debate, I read my colleagues and colleagues who discussed this problem last year and last year, and I think I convinced one of their discussions, even pangs that I've read any number I've changed, all they've said is still standing. And all those areas that we have now assessed satisfactory and in which progress is the same as it was last year and before and all the problems that existed both last and last year remained the same. This is about an objective report, perhaps one of the most objective ones that we get in our House, which beautifully outlines the image of our society, the position of national minorities but also the atmosphere and attitude of the public that according to members of national minorities governments. So far, we have had the opportunity to hear some of these attitudes, which is that minorities are often perceived as cost, that they are minorities, that minorities are considered to have too many rights, that their rights are denied on purpose, etc. etc. Every time I discuss minority minority issues, I refuse to look at it as a cost, and that's why I won't talk about exact numbers. I think that minorities are wealth, that members of national minorities of the Republic of Croatia are the same as members of the majority people with one specificity to root some other peoples, to speak perhaps with another language of Croatia which can only say enrich us as a majority people but also Croatia as a whole. Therefore, minorities are not a cost but I can nevertheless conclude with satisfaction that the funding of national minorities has increased compared to 2013 in the year in question by slightly less than 5%. A team more as counterpart Juhas spoke about NGOs representing national minorities often revolves all social and every other life of a minority community. For example, as I said, I saw it in villages in Baranja, Kotlina, Novi Bezdan, etc. where actually the quality of social life depends primarily on these associations since most of the population are just members of national minorities. When we talk about the equal use of language and letters of national minorities, there is always a lot of controversy. The analysis indicated that, as has been said and so far, 10 units of local self-government have fully aligned their statutes with the provisions of this law, 12 only generally determined the possibility of an equal use of language and letter and 5 units of local self-government were completely deafened, i.e. it did not settle this issue in any way. I hope that in the 2015 report we will read that these numbers are smaller and that everyone has regulated this possibility. Although it should also be pointed out that often equal use of language and letter is not applied because of lack of interest by members of national minorities. So it is at least to read across a series of so-called realisations of this right, from identity cards in minority languages whose number is negligible. If we're talking about other members of national minorities other than the Italian national minority, it's about 4000 if I'm not mistaken. Of course, there's a question of Vukovar. And I am pleased that on the Committee on Human Rights, we have reached the conclusion of the committee on where we have proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that within 90 days the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, this was mentioned by the Deputy Minister, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Generally speaking, there has been a significant increase in the number of court cases in the language of national minorities before courts in the Republic of Croatia, but if we are to give a general assessment there is no significant progress in achieving this right. I say it was sometimes conditioned by the lack of interest of members of the national minorities but sometimes it wasn't, that's what my colleague Horvat was talking about before me. As far as education and education are concerned, we have achieved an envious level. 2013 10 617 students attended 1 of the three models, meaning A, B or C, teaching in both minority languages and letters. In 2014, the figure increased to 10,699. What especially encourages me is the increase in the number of students per model C. So where they continue according to model C in minority languages are also attended by members of the majority people. It's not a meaningless increase, so from 3070 students to 3337 students. Why isn't that negligible? Just because of what I was saying, so the knowledge of another language, another culture can only enrich us but also help us later on the labour market. As regards higher education at the University of Juraj Dobrila in Pula preschool education and teaching studies can also be attended in Italian or mixed Croatian and Italian, while at the Faculty of Philosophy, the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek can be students of any minority or majority people to study Hungarian language and literature. Also, what some speakers mentioned was the increase of the Roma in the overall system of education. And that is why the funds that are intended for this have been increased, means for the scholarship of high school students and Roma who are entering colleges, and it is encouraging because it shows that we have done a lot about the Roma inclusion strategy because we ourselves know that one of the main reasons for the isolation of Roma from society and their difficult integration is the lack of formal education. So, besides giving them formal education, other than preparing them for the labour market also contributes to their integration into society. The curricula reform currently under way in the public debate will include, of course, programmes for teaching in minority languages and letters in which the professional public who performs or teaches in those languages participates. As for access to the means of public communication from year to year, we find that the situation is not good, that there are problems. This was also evident in the discussion we had on the board yesterday when we discussed the work of the HRT Programme Council and when we concluded that there was more interpretation that obligations should be met in accordance with the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the representation of national minority programmes, i.e. the subjects and problems of national minorities on HRT. Some interpret a cumulative contractual period, so for 7 years if I'm not mistaken, some interpret that every year is seen separately. However, whatever category I take I can agree with the conclusion of the National Minority Council which said that the insufficient media presentation of minority activities is contained in public television is more often the minority topic is isolated to the scheduled emissions and terms in the programme alone. And more cultural activities of minority activities and content should also be placed in general information and documentary and other emissions precisely because the public would sensitize themselves for the problems of minority communities but also to become aware that minorities are there, that they are part of our society, that they are a productive part of our society and that they are dealing with something, means that they have anything to show for any cultural, linguistic and other heritage. In the right to manifest faith and cultural autonomy we have also achieved an envious level, from year to year we can conclude that it is more than satisfactory. Even in cultural autonomy, further progress is recorded, partly because it is also funded from the mother countries as it is mentioned but therefore these are areas which are mainly not controversial and which I say year by year we only find progress or the same level that is more than satisfactory. As regards representation in state administration authorities and local self-government units, as previously said, the percentage share of members of national minorities has been reduced, but this is also due to the ban on new employment but also to a general reduction in the number of employees. That's definitely part of the problem. But the problem is also that part of the members of the national minority do not point out their belongings when reporting for public tenders, whether not knowing that this gives them priority in employment but certainly needs to be done to ensure that in the future, when they report to the competition, they also point out that even the state or units of local self-government as an employer would know that it is a member of the national minority. As regards housing and return, more housing units were renovated or built than in 2013. It will likely continue to be better, faster and further. The right to return will also be revised. Or that was the 2015 plan, so we'll see how many people are still expecting care and return. I've said something before about the National Strategy for Roma inclusion. There is definitely progress in Roma integration in society at all levels. I would especially highlight education but also the inclusion of Roma themselves in integration processes. So more and more Roma NGOs dealing with this problem appear themselves, participate themselves, and encourage these processes themselves. This Decision shall The Home Office has identified 22 hate crimes cases. Unfortunately, the vast majority of them are based on nationality, meaning from 22 to 17. It's still worrying even though it's a relatively small number, but one crime would be too much. Of the others, so of 22, 2 are based on sexual orientation, one based on religiousity but 17 is still based on nationality. However, we can estimate that in areas as always in the report it is evident that in areas where, which are... in national minorities is the safety level at its peak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there is still a need to educate still to point to these problems. It still needs to be done to prevent violence. Every violence and one motivated by nationality in order to minimise this number. Let me get this straight. Unfortunately, when we discuss the implementation of this constitutional law, we always discuss the same problems year after year. I'm saying, if I'd read the debate from last year, I don't think anyone would have noticed it was about a new report, about a new year. The problems are always the same. It should work to address these problems. And I hope that in 2015 we will read that at least some of these areas have seen some progress. Minorities are our wealth, and as a wealth, we need to protect, encourage and know that as much as we appreciate our minorities, Croats will also value themselves in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4573	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4574	My colleague Hajdukovic, I'm replicating you though, because technically that's the only thing that's possible, and I'm replicating it in fact until now. It's everywhere, in a certain way in all the reports we find that nothing has actually changed. And then I wonder what's the reason we approach this problem the same way if we see that nothing happens this way. I am sorry that, unfortunately, data is manipulated in a major problem, so it is by the number of employees, so it is not taken into account how many people in general have lost their jobs and only the data is listed and that is a minor information on the number of employees, members of ethnic communities. But I don't want to talk about it. There was also talk about reciprocity that I must also tell my colleagues to Juhas that I absolutely disagree with the reciprocity here to introduce is a very dangerous story. But the fundamental problem as I see it is, it starts with terminology. We accepted standards from some other environments, so we said national minorities. You know, when you tell a minority, you've already discriminated against him. You've already caused a sense of less value, but you've already opposed it to most. Why don't we call ourselves, why don't we change that terminology and just talk about ethnic communities? Where a person feels smaller often does not have a rational approach to problems and enters a conflict with one that is larger. At that time, even the larger one was spared the irrational relationship with the smaller one. I wouldn't want to live in a country where there's a difference between people. That's why I want to talk about Steve, Jova, Juhas, Furi, not the minority. So, gentlemen, all I have left is through a replica to say this because I don't think I'm going to wait for 20 of the same reports, 20 of the same attitudes where we're going to talk about how rights aren't arranged. Let's try to sit down, try to sit down, colleagues to Hajdukovic and everyone else, and see how we can change our rights from the foundation, because minority rights except that they are real they are often times and emotional rights. From that emotional experience of that right. I agree that the law should be respected, and no law can Yes, I did. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Here I can... [[The President's intrusion: Enough.]] Excuse me, stop me every time I start. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4575	Here's what my colleague Hajdukovic is going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, and I can agree with part of what you said. However, the rights of national minorities, members of national minorities, national communities, whatever you want to call them, are arranged. The problem is that they are not implemented in some segments and are not respected in some segments, while members of national minorities were Hungarians, Serbs, Italians, Czechs living in the Republic of Croatia are part of our society. So they're not escular from a problem that seas all of us and it's an economic downturn, etc. So, I agree with you. So when we talk about the problems of national minorities, that's the problem of both Shandor and Furia and Giovanni and Giovanni. So, for me above all, they are citizens of this country, my colleagues, my friends, and then eventually perhaps Hungarians, Italians, Serbs or someone else. But what I want to make possible is that this part of my personal identity, my own language, I can freely express. I think reciprocity is actually a good solution, not because of Hungary. That's where I'm headed. In Hungary, the Croatian minority is highly esteemed and the Hungarian state is very concerned about it. But in some other neighbouring countries, unfortunately, that is not the case, and that is something that we, too, in the Parliament, too, must change. And they say, the first step in solving the problem is awareness of it, awareness that it exists. So I believe we took the first step. I look forward to the next report where we hope to see progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4577	Thank you. The next is a replica of the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4578	Comrade Hajdukovic, in your debate, you touched the non-compliance of programming contracts, i.e. contracts signed between the state and public television on the representation of national minority programmes. I'd only be in this part of the replica next to you. I find this part of non-compliance with certain positive rules even less clear to me that the law under discussion and was adopted in this Croatian Parliament in 2014, more specifically in December 2014, where only Mr Vukusic seemed to be opposed or abstentioned to the amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education, which, in his Article 96(3) and (2), said that the unit of local self-government could transfer the founding right of the school to another unit of the regional (regional) or local self-government. In paragraph 3, it defines: "In the case of a school institution in which the teaching is carried out in the language and letter of the national minority and located in the area of the local self-government unit, which establishes an equal official use of the language and letter of the national minority, the regional self-government unit shall be obliged to transfer the founding right to local self-government units at the request of the transfer of founding rights and it shall be defined that the units of regional self-government in this case are obliged to do so within 60 days. This Croatian Parliament almost unanimously brings such a standard in December 2014. Today we're in 2016 nothing moved. Is it possible that an individual, in this case the Mayor of Vukovar-Srijemski is placed above the decisions of this Croatian Parliament not only when we talk about such laws that are not organic such as amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education but also of a kind of violation of the organic law which is the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. That's what I find completely vague and totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4579	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues can agree with you, just one little note. Namely, when we talk about public television, the national problem on public television is regulated by the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian Radio Television, of course, by the basis of the law. But as I said, there are different interpretations about the very percentage of the program when it's being broadcast. So some believe that the percentage refers to the entire area touched by the contract, and some hold that it is viewed on the basis of one calendar year. So there's still resistance. But... minorities have too little representation on public television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've quoted the law well. Therefore, there are certain conditions that must be met in order for the founder to transfer the founding rights to another unit of local self-government, or regional self-government. All conditions are met. There is political will, in schools there is teaching in that language and letter and is located in the area of a local self-government unit where most of them are members of a national minority. Why doesn't that suit someone we can only speculate that it's some political reason, because there's no other legal reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4581	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the word would be taken by the distinguished representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4582	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Minority Representatives Club wants to point out several critical points that it considers important, because as I would say everyone has a role to play and it is our role to point to problems. The government's role is to defend law enforcement. Although in this report and this year we are actually in one paradox and it is a paradox every election year. In this year we are facing a situation where the government is different from the one to which this report relates. The report should always be correct, neutral, but I think that report is written by people, so then the natural thing is that there are certain misunderstandings. So let's see that, for example. A greater number of replicas come from the SDP than from HDZ. And that's normal because this is about a report drawn up by the government at the head of the SDP. So everything is atypical in this report. I commend the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities who has been operationally writing this report but of course I will point out what I think should have been more highlighted. The office itself and the government itself, passed or this one is now irrelevant, the office is the same, states areas of greatest progress and areas that are actually under the greatest problems. In the areas of major progress, the Office and the Government shall list the area of education and education, cultural autonomy but in the exercise of the religious rights of members of national minorities, representation in representative and executive bodies of local and regional self-government units and in the implementation of the National Programme for Roma and Roma Action Plan. I will leave this last area to my colleagues, Katasia, who will certainly speak much more metrically than I do, but as soon as I have read the report from the board, I have pointed out that here we should talk less about the formal side, and more about the real side, and the real side is the one concerning insufficient education, large housing issues, the big structural issues of life that the Roma national community has and which are far from being solved. As for representation in representative and executive bodies, a good result has been achieved in the elections. In cultural autonomy, we do not realize that cultural autonomy is, when we talk about the cultural autonomy of national minorities, to put emphasis on religious issues. We think that Croatia is a secular state and faith is separated from the public sphere, not from the public sphere from the secular sphere, so we are putting ourselves in that sphere of national minorities. So perhaps there should be a special report on human rights that we each have so much and that goes directly to the government, unfortunately and where these religious issues would be treated more. Because, for example, I do. my community on religious issues is completely consistent with what I would call majority or Croats, with the Croatian community, and there I see no possibility of talking about me to Italians through Catholic faith, is that because in the same way that same area we represent, which we talk about when it comes to the majority people. For other communities, it may be different, but in other communities we cannot tell whether the minority, most of them, is related to the faith. So, religious issues should be shortened because here the more we deepen this issue, the more mistakes we make, should be treated separately rather than treated with national minorities. In both education and education in the language and letter of the national minorities there are honestly problems, not only problems in the registration of schools discussed by fellow Horvat before. Yesterday, on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, we talked about these registrations, and we simply do not understand because all the criteria are met, that schools in Serbian and the letter to be accurate in Podunavlje that there are minority schools we do not understand that resistance coming from local self-government and this resistance that comes unfortunately from governmental structures that hesitate to transfer these rights from county to city bodies. Because it is simply inconceivable that cities and municipalities that have absolutely the right to do so if those three conditions are met that they do not have the right to start their own school in minority language if they want to. The government didn't do it, we felt there was a problem with this government, and it's actually getting incomprehensible. A colleague of Horvat used to talk about the existence of schools in Italian, Hungarian, Czech. In Istria these schools and in Rijeka these schools have always existed. In other places they existed as in Zadar, but they were closed, and not just in Zadar. They exist, these schools have existed since '45. years as bilingualism has existed since '45. A year. There are two ways in which we have to approach and how we can approach the integration of the minority and the majority and there are no colleagues of the Dodig here, I wanted to thank him for the pre-debate he had because we too would like the Constitution and the laws to call us different, not minorities, communities of national, ethnical which are actually synonyms. Because at an emotional level, and Mr. Dodig spoke both as a psychotherapist and as a psychiatrist, and that's important, both at the emotional level of the minority and most do not have the same meaning. And the minority, of course, has that resistance to being treated that way. But more important than that, far more important than that, we can not, we can also call ourselves minorities but some laws, let law enforcement be so in Croatia that we don't actually feel different. That's the whole story. You can us, I was born as a minority and as I would say despite being a minority I've normally developed to say both emotionally and intellectually. That's why it may not be so important for a denotative meaning, so the one who denots, we call ourselves a minority or a majority, most of us not, a minority or a people. You know, for example. The adjective of the people used in Yugoslavia was so much, in some moments so little understanding that an urban legend in Belgrade was saying that the first translation of the people and peoples as far as the Italians were concerned was "popolice e popoli" so that, I would watch out for a little bit with denotative meaning, it's connotative meaning, it's emotional. Some people treat us like a problem, and some people treat us like a fortune. Please don't treat us like a problem or a fortune. We don't want to be rich. For example. We're all in mixed marriages. What do we do now, my wife will be a Croat and I will be a rich man. It's not working out for you. We must be treated equally to all others, as individuals. Some of us are good, some of us are less good than the Croats. There are good Croats and there are fewer good Croats. There are bad Croats, there are good Italians, there are fewer good Italians. Please treat us as individuals and neither as a problem nor as a treasure. In short, we don't want to be a problem, and please don't want to be rich. We want individuals treated equally. Where critical points are more pronounced, so far I've talked about what the former government and the current government are after the transfer, those points that are defined as points of achievement. And I think that there are achievements but up to one limit as we've seen it. I'm sure there's a back-up, which is the most difficult thing to do... minority rights are said by the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Use of language and letters of national minorities bilingualism, access to national minorities through means of public communication and representation of national minorities in state administration bodies. We saw before that 3.5%, 3.51 fell to 3.49, but it's not that important that 3.51 fell to 3.49, but that the minority has 7.5%. So no but the quota to say so has been achieved so far, no crossover of the number of percentages of national minorities in the public, in the public sphere of employment. And of course it must be done, to use the language and letters of the national minorities we must change Mr. President, we must... What the Constitutional Court has told us and put in place, I am telling you because I know that the Government is on the move and not we are changing this law in the use of the language of national minorities and in the registration of schools as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I think is, I'd like to say more at school before it's said that there's progress in schooling, and I mention problems like registration problems. That's not the only problem, the problem with textbooks is, minorities don't have real textbooks in their schools translated. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So there are other problems. And besides, we have a law that doesn't speak, it deliberately doesn't talk about the bottom number to form one reason, but there are always rules in the ministry. I hope that now there will be no more in the Ministry of Education and Education records, which, despite the fact that there are no minimum figures in the law, they are still being placed, they are trying to implement each time and every time there is a conflict because of it. What I want to finish with is next. Too little space is devoted to the field of discrimination and hate speech. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law and it is mentioned, is also mentioned in this report. But also the latest events that took place in the last year, I only mention that we brought the Declaration of Ethnocentrism and intolerance to Croatia where it was explained last year at the 5th month that the situation is escalating. And lately, the situation has been radically escalating, and one book has been presented. But even if it wasn't presented, read the paper, watch what's going on, and you'll see that there's a hate speech, in discriminating the situation, not only is it not good that it's not listed and it's not analysed in this report, but it should be dedicated to a special report. Because the hate speech in Croatia is escalating and discrimination is escalating. If you want to have a discussion about it, we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4583	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4584	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Radin, you have said it is incomprehensible that minority schools that go in Serbian and Cyrillic letters that have been functioning for 18 years are not yet registered as minority schools. That's really incomprehensible. It is equally incomprehensible that we do not understand that if we do not recognise this type of school and that kind of right to members of the Serb community in Croatia, in this way we seriously compromise our own demands for the right of members of the Croatian people in other countries that also have the right to education in the language, in Croatian and in the Latin letter. And on the other hand, what's particularly important is if people who care about us don't have segregation and we really need to worry that we don't have any segregation or in the school system, but then we need to look at how many minorities are integrated into school programs, into national school programs. If there were enough content that would concern national minorities in literature, in history, in geography, in music where members of national minorities as a historical part of Croatian society would be recognised in these areas by their contribution. Why Milutin Milankovic was mentioned as one of Croatia's leading scientists, mentioned only two years ago on our initiative on national programmes. Most of us probably don't even know who Milutin Milankovic is, but those who deal with physics or those who deal with astronomy, who deal with climate science, they know. But that would be the way we could actually avoid segregation, not just not admit minority schools. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4585	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, it's pretty incomprehensible that in 1945 it wasn't a problem or '47, '48. It was no problem to establish schools of national minorities and register as such, and today it is a problem. Now we have to ask what's going on here? I could also give an answer to what's going on and that's one answer to say which is, which is not conflicting. Some think that, let's just say, some think it would produce added conflicts if we did Serbian, set up Serbian and Croatian schools in Podunavlje. I'm saying it's a paradox and it's a nonsens, because on that very principle we're in Istria and let's not forget Istria and the river 1945, '46, '47, '48. They weren't what they were today. These were areas of more conflict, these were areas where World War II had just ended and where conflicts existed and between ethnic conflicts. They were called ideologically, but they were interethnic conflicts. Schools in Italian were left behind. Today in these Italian schools comes a large number of Croatian children, and otherwise since we have mixed marriages in 80, 90% of Italians say children come from mixed marriages and ethnically pure marriages, to use that guilty, that false definition. So there's a way for us to use schools just because we don't want to separate, but to connect. I see in the future the possibility that you may not see that many Croatian children go to Serbian schools in the future. Today, however, some Croatian children go to schools in Serbian and letter Even though they don't call themselves that and they don't want to register. [[Downstairs: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4587	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4588	My colleagues and colleagues, so on the trail of your exposure, I must tell you that I remember well the former evoking of brotherhood and unity. I consumed it in a decent way through a primary school where we also had students of Serbian nationality from the nearby village of Karadzic who were at school all wonderful and students and good and cultural and nice. Some have remained so to this day, and some have changed with the coming of change in Serbia and some psychiatrists, intellectuals, some of the great Messianic leaders of that people who did not want to see our desire for independence. Here I have on paper 144 and several million Croatian kunas have been spent on your programs and for what you should be represented as an adequately rewarded minority. Tell the minority I don't like, we're all the same. But this thing, why Mr. Representatives and also sitting here amongst us, I have to answer to the esteemed representative Pupovac, it is possible that he has used some of the funds he has received for these programmes, perhaps he has used them to write his newsletter in which I see hate speech because he has begun to cite and invoke Croatian citizens and among them my comrade Mladen Leovec, whom he listed as a pro-prostitute author of some portals. This same one was wounded three times in Vukovar, and he lived through captivity in Vukovar, so it pains me very much to call him in such writings, and most of all this same man is looking for his bread bark now in Germany while those who caused him all the pain, trouble, and the reason why he writes are somehow rewarded with 144 million. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4589	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4590	On the mark of an individual approach that I had highlighted earlier, I would have responded to this part where you say that there were many good Serbs in the brotherhood and unity, and then many changed. I would just like to tell you that in the meantime many Italians have changed, and many Croats have changed and individuals have changed, but not the peoples. And that other part about the money that we are given for, that you give us for your needs, I would ask that these money be given on the basis of the law, not on the basis of the Croatians giving it to the Serbs or the Croats to the Italians. Let this House bring laws and then let the law grant funds and not one nation to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4591	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, here I am reporting for the replica of my esteemed colleague Furio mostly for the reason of the debate on this important subject, so I will allow myself to understand us much better than others. Namely, you said you wanted to be treated as an individual equally with which you actually said a lot. And I'd just like what you said in a different way. When we talk about co-existence in terms of content, we in Istria experience co-existence in a way that we live together, not just side by side. And I think it's a fundamental concept of everything and the rights of minorities. If we add that respect and representation of minority rights is to represent high civilization values afterwards we can put an end to and all of this together live and implement it. Namely, speaking of every important topic and this is an important topic with pride, I can say that in Istria, we truly live a true co-existence, that we are proud of it, that after World War II in a unique way, with one great responsibility of the majority in relation to minorities, we have overcome our many difficulties and that today we are the best example but I would like to say to all of you in the replica, Mr Culej said that on all the important topics and when we talk about this issue of minority rights, everyone should be aware of the weight of publicly spoken words.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4593	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4594	Yes, thank you, Mr. Sponzi. Although Istria is a special area, then there was no clear ratio of the majority and minority in '45. And '46. years so I'd say we understood each other, not that most people understood the minority. That's how it was then, then it changed afterwards. I would just like to, but I only wanted to take advantage of the situation that is today in Istria that is not perfect, where we work every day and keep it and improve it, and far from it is to be perfect and so imperfect that it is actually a starting point to solve problems in other parts of Croatia. Especially in Podunavlje which is located in one situation which is here I will take my freedom is not far in the emotional sphere not far from the one where Istria was in the second half of the '40s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4595	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Tanja Vrbat Grgic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4596	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Radin is here with the great majority of the things you said, of course I absolutely agree and I'm glad you mentioned that it was '45. There was nothing more difficult in Istria than today or 15 years ago, 20 years ago in Podunavlje ours and in other parts of Croatia. I would like all of you colleagues to go to the archives of the Parliament or to our library and take those agreements that were then adopted to see how detailed the establishment of these schools in the Italian language or minority language is prescribed. In what way this well-functioning co-life in Istria between Italians and Croats and other peoples who live there to which details were being considered, to which all life situations, how these contracts were in fact far-reaching and what results they had brought, we can really see it today. It's me, coming from Umag and it's a bilingual environment, one middle where there's a lot of Italians. I'm a Croatian but Italian is my language, I've been educated half in Croatian, half in Italian, my brother too, my brother too. And I must tell you, in the 1990s when teachers came, the great Croats from some other areas in Croatia went to schools in Italian and other nationalities. What I find problematic by my colleague Furio in one part of this, with schools in Italian, i.e. in the language and letter of the national minorities, is a major problem of teaching staff. Many times it is questionable that the staff teaches everything in these schools and the very quality of education in those schools. Clearly, there is not enough teaching staff in the language of national minorities, but I believe that something should be done in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4597	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4598	About this last thing, every community of majority or minority wants a better education. I believe that schools in Italian are at the level of schools in Croatian but a small community should have as I would say, if positive discrimination is possible. She must have better schools because otherwise there will be assimilation and integration. Otherwise, as far as the way we did it in Istria is concerned, I wouldn't want it to be understood that it's great in Istria. In Istria, we're working on getting better. And I wouldn't want it to be understood that after World War II in Istria, all they came to was big-time. Many came from other peoples of Yugoslavia, in fact, the great Yugoslavs came.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4599	Thank you. We move on to the next exhibition on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik on behalf of the club of Croatian Labourists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4600	Dear colleagues and colleagues. As an introduction to this exhibit, I hope for a short time because there is already a lot of it said. I would use Nestor's words for the National Minorities of Mr... who said that the state of minority rights and human rights in one community does not depend so much on the Constitution, constitutional laws, declarations, etc., but rather on the moral state of the nation, or on how it stands with the treatment of ethical problems and problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we go that way, then I can agree that what Mr. Dodig was saying when he said that he was bothered to talk about national minorities, since I am a member of the national minority myself, I understand what he wants to say but the terms are set, we must use them because immediately the President of the Parliament will warn us not to talk about what we need to talk about. But the fact is that I would like to point out that we members of the national minorities sometimes feel like a national surplus. Some more, some less and then there's a problem, just about what I quoted Mr.... When it comes to national minorities, and it is said that national minorities are a burden on the budget, then it should be mentioned that the fact being said but I think it is worth repeating, which is that in the general population of the national minority is 7.4% of the population and of all the funds spent on civil society 5.4% are spent on the problem of national minorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore something real that is symbolic and cannot be a burden but national minorities should not only look through the rakurs of the budget but should first point to the complexity of the issues of national minorities, and that is what the slang says is the difference between minority and civil. This means what are the specific rights of national minorities, which are unique to them and which are the rights that are actually equal to all, and for all members of this community, whether they are minorities or not. That's where the habitual housing is mentioned. I wouldn't talk about it because there's more competent. But I'd like to mention something else. It's about, when it comes to religious communities then, it's Mr. Radin's mention, but I would mention him, at least in some segment, it seems to me that he could be complemented and it's to be done in some way to identify religious and national holidays. It's something that's inadmissible. So that identity of the nation and the faith, it's in action. And that we have the folklore of the majority people is what it is and it's not mine to comment on. But also the fact is that it's manifested through media access, programs and all that, and then passed on to minority communities, so it's passed on to minority communities. It's just not good, and then you come into a situation to say when you object, this field trip has nothing to do with what I'm going to say, but it's illustrative, so I'm going to use it. So when you criticize Mr. Hasanbegovic's culture minister, then you object that you are actually insulting him on a religious basis. I've never seen anyone hurt Mr. Hasanbegovic by a religious person, I just saw someone say he's not happy that he's a minister, that he doesn't think he's going to be a good minister, etc.. But then, of course, it actually goes into this other extreme to show how inappropriate we treat it. When it comes to the level of exercise of the right of language and letter of national minorities in front of local self-government authorities, then we must see that this use of language is actually in decline. One reason is for certain that minorities do not want to use their own language. One of the reasons I can at least say that from the position of the minority I belong to, but on which list I am not elected, I was chosen on the Labour list not to be misunderstanding when someone starts to complain to me, which is that in fact many do not rule well enough in their native language, so it is actually a problem to use Croatian language. It's a kind of integration, but let's say something we can talk about and problem integration. When we talk about the use of the mother tongue, i.e. the language and letters of national minorities in front of the judiciary, funds are provided from the budget. In these tables, however, you could see that only the Italians are listed, since, of course, the increase in the use of minority language is in front of courts. But in fact, there's only one increase in the Italians, which is one data we have in the Italians. 37 people of the Italian national minority were used in their own language, and this is an enormous increase. But we don't actually have the right data. And the only thing that's interesting is that, let's say, when I.D.'s are issued, it's a significant decline in the issue of ID cards compared to 2013 except that it grew enormously in Hungary and Slovakia. The Hungarians grew from 30 to 31, with Slovaks from 2 cards to 3 cards. So here's something that shows that what's actually the state and the spirit under what's being treated as minority rights. When we talk about registration I think this is very important, registration of Serbian schools then we are actually in one big problem because what is the right that the local community has and requires that those rights founding it be transferred, there is the will of parents, there is the will of children, there is the will of the local community but they simply do not want to be allowed. It is said that we are actually taking care of the Serb community. Because when it comes to local units that have agreed or did not comply with the statutes, it's about 27 communities, 23 are Serbian, so it's mostly about the Serbian issue. Then actually to go back to these schools and register schools, then it's said that that's actually the problem with segregating those children. If parents want segregation, if the local community wants segregation, then I would allow them that segregation, if they're crazy enough to want it, so let them use it. But it's not about segregation, of course, it's about something else, and it's about how it actually wants to be disabled, it's actually a good-looking excuse to make it impossible for them to actually exercise their right that belongs to them by law. And it would certainly be polite for them to have the right to do so. When it comes to media treatment, what's called the contract between HRT and the state versus national minorities, then one reference should be made to that of all four programmes, and unfortunately we actually bring the whole problem to the problem of television. We have a radio, a radio is very important, very powerful, and it would be good to have a debate on the role and influence of the radio. But it's mostly television and all of the programs that exist on four HTV programs that I think is 3% of the waste is just about minority-related programs. And then the question is, how do these programs show up? Mostly unprofessional, convenient, superficial, the reasons are different. First of all, one negligence towards marginalizing a minority issue doesn't matter. Then other unprofessional people who do so often come from people who do not know, say, minority gatherings, such as members of the German minority who have an annual large scientific gathering in Germany. That's where people who don't know German come in, so they can hardly track what's going on out there. And there's a lot of such illogicalities. In other words, when it comes to this media presentation, then it may best be seen, for example, the good and the bad in those shows that refer to religious content because there are minorities and religious minorities, and that is to say, you have shows I have mentioned earlier the Ecumen and the Spiritual Challenges that are great shows, because they actually speak in one way that we have little talk about religion, religion, and I stress what is very important and that many simply do not understand or want to understand, and that is that they do not only interfaith, but also interfaith dialogue, which is far more important than the fact that representatives of the churches meet and between themselves bishops and dignitaries agree on everything, there is no problem at all. But mostly in the field, some things aren't very good. So, in this sense, it should actually be far more up-to-date, more professionally to follow what's happening, to give far greater meaning, and not just to bring everything down to folklore, to bring everything down to dance, to bring everything down to what is of course very important to a minority community. But the minority community should probably be something more and far more than that. When we talk about the letter, I will not touch the Cyrillic because it will immediately cause controversy. But in any case, it's foolish to criminalise a single letter completely innocent and actually for purely political and political purposes. I'd just like to warn here about a few sentences from the public defender's report from that time, where it's said among other things. The attorney general wishes to stress that full respect for minority rights should be an integral part of the daily routine, both members of the minority and the majority. She says on a number of occasions we have warned that the adopted rules that are in line with high international standards should be applied consistently if we want to live in a democratic society, and then she says, "I particularly consider it important to condemn a discriminatory speech including a hate speech whose appearance, with the introduction of bilingualism, is common, and the violence that follows unquestionably," and I think that we are all witnesses of it happening. The Serbian National Council presents its vision of the problem, cites data that are exact and then actually pollutes the trees and stones on it. The president of that council is experiencing extreme discomfort because he says he feels threatened, and then Mr. Miljan Brkic tells him he doesn't hate anyone, so if someone feels threatened, let them leave this country. I take it personally. So someone's denying me a minority, he can deny me the right to the Homeland. I was born in Croatia, I am a citizen of Croatia and there is no Millian Brkic who can tell me that I am moving, it is my decision, not Mr. Millian Brkic and similar to him. And that sort of thing actually happens in continuity. And it's nothing new. It's just like a sink, it's a little bit out, so it's a little bit more visible, so it hides a little bit, but it's something that manifests itself. Same as the black shirts. I'm gonna talk about black shirts here only to those who gathered in Ban Jelačić Square because since there is no Mr. Glavas he forbidd me to talk about his black shirts I'll wait when he comes to the Parliament and I'll talk about his black shirts, right? But that's also one message to be sent, especially to the minors. It's something that's unacceptable. And so there'd be a lot to talk about, but let me get this straight. From the 2016 budget we will actually see how and how this new government applies and will refer to the minority issue, of course not all the budget but also that. And one more thing I'd like to conclude is that we all understand here in the Parliament that most people are not qualified as much as it sounds heretically not qualified to talk about minority problems. It is a minority who warns about how he feels in this society, and most people cannot decide how the minority feels and that is the disease of the majority that comes out from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4601	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke about minorities who actually make up the wealth of every society, both Croatian and the need to combat discrimination on every basis and especially on a national basis and one hate speech that unfortunately appears more and more frequently and escalates in recent times. You also mentioned this statement by Mr. Brkic, directed to Mr. Pupovac, which is indeed a direct violation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination which says that harassment is also considered any behaviour that really constitutes a violation of the dignity of a person, which causes an hostile, humiliating or offensive environment based on race, skin colour, ethnic origin, nationality or any other objective features summed up under the notion of race and discrimination. So we, literally from senior officials of the current government, have a hate speech that can be brought under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. And that's unforgivable. That hate speech only further increases divisions in the Croatian society I sincerely hoped for since I was sitting in the Parliament and in the '90s. that we've overcome them. And today we hear some statements that are such a speech of hate and intolerance and discrimination that we couldn't hear in the '90s. I will remind you that Mrs Ruza Tomasic said "Croatia is a Croatian state for Croats and the rest are guests". I already said what Mr. Brkic told Mr. Pupovac to move to where he would feel safer. I would also remind you of the gentleman's statement I find it difficult to tell Mr. Zdravko Mamic who said that no Serb could be the minister of such important resources as science, education and sport. Therefore, these are messages that we Parliament officials should try to condemn, prevent Croatian society from being a society where national minorities are respected because they enrich every society. It's especially about Vukovar. So the registration of Serbian schools in Vukovar is something that is incomprehensible that cannot be ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4603	Time's up, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4604	I just wanted to say one more sentence. That the best example of how many Serbian children love Croatia is that the winner of the Croatian language county competition was a girl who attended Serbian school and Serbian programme and was there to study Croatian additionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4605	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4606	Mr. Jovanovic, I agree with you to a large extent. I would just like to remind you that in the Homeland War, some 10,000 members of the Serb national minority participated in the war. And every speech about Serbs in any ugly way actually offends those people. It's like you don't get it here. Secondly, national minorities are sometimes rich, sometimes a bridge, we like to boast about it, but sometimes they're not, or depending on which national community it is. And what you're saying about Vukovar is something that has become not only about Vukovar but in Croatia a general place that Danilo Kiš would say, which means about like this, you can read in the newspaper what is sold in a decent statement that the Serb minority is terrorising the Croatian majority in Vukovar. The logical question is, since I'm a logic professor, how can a minority terror over most? I don't get it, but I'm good at letting it get to the bottom of it. Or should I say three Serbian boys beat up a Croatian. Well, I guess three young men beat up another young man. How does this journalist know that they are Serbian, and if so, why is that stressed? Well, I guess it happened sometimes that three Croatian young men beat up a Serbian one, too, but that's not what it said back then. These are all the things that should be warned without any bile, without any way of saying simply to realize that this path we're going, which we've chosen, at least part of this society simply leads this society into great danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4607	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague offered me a few things in a replica. First of all, the message he's sending is bad. And that's what I was talking about that members of the national minorities are citizens of this country, they were born here and Croatia is their country as well as I who am a member of the majority people. And the moving messages are definitely not good. However, you also touched on HRT's monitoring of minority issues, minority programmes and minority content. You also mentioned some shows, so Prizum, a spiritual challenge if I'm not mistaken. But what is problematic to me is that the most common minority problem isgetoized in the purpose of the shows. So, the Spiritual Challenge and Prism are great shows but they have relatively limited audiences for various reasons. And if minority issues were very rare, if I didn't say unhappily in some mainstream program, mainstream television, often their cultural events were not transmitted enough, but all the rest just so that the public would sensitize themselves to the fact that minorities exist in our society, to live in our society, to contribute to our society, and then to create in which no one would call on... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4609	I would also like to thank the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4610	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I agree with you, and in fact you just encouraged me to say two more sentences. What exactly is one problem? The problem is that these shows that are of course quality in my court, someone may be judged not to move into terms that are actually invisible, instead of putting them in terms that are visible, which are actually because the message is clear to those who want to watch it, are placed in the ghetto, and that's the kind of, I see it, getoisation that you have something but very difficult to get to that program. Because if you're working, I don't know until four o'clock, and now I'm banging, at seven o'clock in the morning, that show shows up, so you're not gonna be such a big fan after 7:00 p.m. to turn on the TV and watch what some Protestant or Orthodox thinks now, you don't give a shit about it. That's number one. It means those terms. And when you talked about that, how to show those shows. Another problem is, when you're actually serious about Orthodoxism, Islam, Judaism, meaning what's not a majority religious community, this is just one margin, but it's worth mentioning, so right now to say it's not a rule, then actually in one part of that audience, the believers, and first of all what I call godly folklores who actually have nothing to do with religion, they don't really have much to do with it. Then it's actually seen as a blow to most religion. Instead of looking at it in the spirit of ecumenism, in the spirit of cooperation to get to know each other better. Because I assume you're asking the average citizen of Croatia who the Protestants are, they'll say they're the people who are protesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4611	We move on to the next line, the distinguished representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4612	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Where did this story go? I can only tell anyone why he has his own. So when someone answers in the media and says he's threatened to be afraid he's scared. I wonder what, who, why. Does each of us have any fears so that everyone can say that he's afraid of something, so that we can see and consider it here? Who's the problem with national minorities? I do not see in Croatia, all national minorities are very wonderfully involved in all the pores of Croatian society and no one complains that he is missing something except one national minority. Why this eternally endangered national minority, cut off in its rights and in everything that someone else has, they no longer have. What's that minority for? If, excuse me, Mr. Pupovci, you shouldn't go out. Which is why the same ones are always cut off. Who are they? Do you remember our close history, the past as it was? How'd it go? How did the mess go in Croatia? In what way? Issues of danger. I'm threatened, I'm afraid, Serbian refugees, vampire Ustashas, legionnaires, foreign mercenaries, and I'm afraid to say those big finger necklaces, ears, and I don't know what else we had to listen to, we all listened. You can be apprehensive of those words of mine. But it was a day-to-day policy and a media lynch in the past tense. And now someone's saying again that he's threatened, someone who's loaded, like a ship, as we say. Someone who bases his entire political action solely on filling his pockets, dissipating between the Croatian and Serbian people. Come to my village and see how wonderful Serbs live with me in co-existence. I have friends of Serbs and Montenegrins and Muslims and I don't have any friends. And everyone knows who I am. They don't have such representatives among themselves. They have wonderful people who are their representatives. But they don't speak this language of hate, the language of division They speak another language. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Self-invited leaders who have come after some parties in power give themselves the right to speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4613	Thank you. Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4614	Mr. Culey, I'd like you to understand one thing. I'm here, I'm not defending anyone, I'm not attacking anyone. My view is, not as a minority but as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that the attitude towards national minorities, according to everything that is minority in every community of lamus-paper democracy, is simply contitiated by son qua non and without it cannot be seriously discussed. What you're saying about Mr. Pupovac right now, I'm not his lawyer, but I'm going to say one thing, my impression is that he wasn't speaking for himself, he was speaking for the community that was headed. He is the president of the Serbian People's Council and in this context I think we should watch it. And this, when you mention it, I don't know the Ustasha, etc., it's for some other discussion that we're not, that we're not, that we're not carrying it here again, but the fact is that even the Ustashas are due to something. But it's something that's for a scientific gathering, to discuss it, to write about, but it's not a problem for the assembly to discuss it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4615	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Blaženko Boban, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4616	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Representative Pecnik and everyone here present in the assembly, this debate has been going on for 2.5 hours now and indeed in one peaceful, tolerated, and critical review and then a representative of the Pecnik appears and then the debates, replicas, are starting, I really don't know what this is all about. But I'm only going to replicate for one thing, you said at one point, you were talking about the Ecumenian show, and then you mentioned that it doesn't matter that the church's credentials are meeting, it's minor, it's irrelevant, but it's important that we talk at the ecumen level in the dialogue, and that's important. Are you thinking about insulting the feelings of the believers in this way, regardless of what religion, Orthodox, Muslim and ultimately the majority Catholic religion in Croatia is. You even mentioned they are located at some folk level. That's exactly how it's written in your presentation. In this way, you are not only creating some kind of confusion here within this truly two and a half hours of tolerance, peaceful and critical debates about national minorities, but you are encouraging another additional tension about religious relations, so leave it to each of us and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia regardless of nationality, regardless of religion, to be his personal matter, not to educate you from the pay phone what folklore is, which is at the folklore level meeting religious citizens at all levels in the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing, you can't, you can't really be the one on a couple of occasions who won't look back or look back on some high-ranking state official in this case, Mr. Brkic. Already on a few occasions and every debate, even if it was a subject that was related to the agenda or not, but obviously something itches to you, something is scratching you in that segment, so I ask you to stick to the agenda by respecting every attitude we have here in particular in this assembly, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4617	Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4618	Well, I didn't mean to offend anyone, I don't think I did. I just said that Ecumenical, it's actually a dialogue of religious communities and it comes down to the fact that mostly high representatives of churches meet and talk to each other. And they usually always agree. And they say their messages that are general how to say evangelical nature and that's fine. I was just trying to get it down to the level of the believers. It is far more important that the believer, not religious dialogue, be present because people will then understand better. It's not enough that only bishops talk to each other. Of course, they need to talk, they have to. But I have advocated what is actually fundamental to how to say, essential to understanding relations within a religious community. When you talk about a godly relationship, it offends when I say godly folklore. I just published, I'd like to call in a few. Well, I'm not going to book now, but let's just say Esad Cibic wrote a book called dramatization a long time ago. It's just very nice to explain what it means. Well, if you know that I don't know all Croatian residents, 80% are declared Roman Catholics and how many are churchgoers. So that's the difference? That's the difference I'm pointing to. Therefore, it is everyone's right. I don't take away anyone's rights, I don't give them, I can't do it, I don't have a right to do it. I'm just warning you of something that's an obvious fact. And third, you say I'm disturbed by senior officials. No, it bothers me when they talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4619	Thank you. We move on to the next exhibition on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the distinguished representative Ivan Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia shall be submitted by the current Government now responsible for the work of the previous Government during 2014 to ensure the rights of national minorities guaranteed by that law. The government's assessment is that the proposed report shows satisfactory progress in achieving the rights of members of national minorities by citing the areas where the greatest progress has been made as well as those in which there are still some problems. To begin the only right that is found to be fully in accordance with the law, representation of members of national minorities in representative and executive bodies of local and regional self-government units is. The report shows that a high level of education in the language and letter of national minorities, the achievement of the religious rights of national minorities and the development of cultural autonomy has also been achieved in the exercise of other rights. What I would like to look at in this section is precisely the representation of members of national minorities here in the Croatian Parliament as well as at the levels of counties, cities and municipalities. On the importance of representing minority communities at all levels of government, we do not need to waste words and I am sure we will all agree with the assessment that the role of representatives of these communities in policymaking at all levels is extremely important. The question arises, however, whether the existing model of representation can be further developed and how. Whether it represents an existing way of allocating the mandate given the number of members satisfactorily and fully each of the 22 national minorities. I think this topic could and should be the subject of discussion on electoral legislation. Why do I stress the importance of exercising the right to representation in the representative authorities? Because I expect this government and the competent ministries and state offices, as well as the Council for National Minorities and here present representatives of national minorities, as well as everyone else, to advocate each and every one of their own parts for the implementation of interstate agreements and contracts signed by the Republic of Croatia. I expect it to insist on achieving the representation of the Croatian minority in representative, in representative authorities of countries where they live especially in cases where the agreement guarantees it, but it is still unfortunately only on paper. The proposed report on the implementation of bilateral co-operation has borrowed one single page, although co-operation with countries in which Croatian minorities live is of paramount importance. The importance of bilateral cooperation is evident in creating a positive and constructive atmosphere in interstate relations so as to create assumptions for the implementation of concrete projects that contribute to further improving the position of minorities in the Republic of Croatia and Croatian minorities in the countries with which these agreements are signed. The Republic of Croatia signed bilateral agreements on the protection of minority rights with Montenegro, Italy, Hungary, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia, and took over a state contract with Austria from 1955 that guarantees certain minority rights to the citizens of Croatia. In order to monitor the implementation of the agreed agreements and to propose appropriate recommendations to the Governments of the States, intergovernmental and mixed committees with Montenegro, Hungary, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia have been established. The committees should be held alternately once a year and should consider current issues of interest to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian national minority in those countries. Still, it's not like that in practice. The report said that during 2014, the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia organised the 6th session of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee with the Republic of Serbia, and that the next one is planned to take place in the second half of 2015. It is noted that despite the envisaged terms in 2014 intergovernmental mixed committees for minorities with Hungary and Macedonia have not been held. There are no further clarifications, and I expect them at least in the 2015 report. I also expect a pool of data to be found here on how much total funding from the Republic of Croatia's budget is allocated to implement bilateral agreements. What we have now is data that financial support for the Croatian minorities in European countries has been provided for 2014, so with those countries with which we do not have signed bilateral agreements and with those who do not recognise the Croatian minority in total of 3 million 785 thousand and 550 kuna. The following countries are: Austria, Bulgaria, Montenegro, the Czech Republic, Italy, Kosovo, Hungary, Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Serbia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law is one of the powers of the Council for National Minorities and to cooperate with the competent authorities of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and with the competent authorities in matters of interest for national minorities. It is also one of the powers to implement the conclusions and provisions of the Treaty on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities signed by the Republic of Croatia. The 2014 Council Report states that at the position of the Council for the Implementation of the Bilateral Agreement with Italy, a million and 710 thousand kuna were provided for 6 programmes and with Hungary for the 400,000 kuna programme. We do not have data on how much funds are reserved in the budget at the positions of other bodies for the implementation of bilateral contracts, and in particular not on which programmes are concerned. It would be very interesting for comparison to see how many countries we have interstate agreements with single out for their minority in the Republic of Croatia, I doubt that we would be at the top of the scale. When it comes to funding national minority programmes, it is difficult to penetrate the logic by which individual programmes are financed from the position of the council and others are located in the positions of individual ministries or offices. This is difficult to understand in the budget, and the proposed report does not make it easy. In particular, it stresses that during 2014 the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was spent despite the continued adverse economic and social situation of 144 million 358 kuna and 26 June, which represents a significant increase of 6 million 187 thousand 587 kuna and 23 June, or by 4.3% more than in 2013 when 138 million 182 thousand and 777 kuna were spent. Although it is partly stated in which areas increased overall it is impossible to connect all data. It further confuses the indication of the same or similar types of programmes in different positions. For example, at the positions of the Ministry of Culture, it is stated that a number of activities in the field of culture, publishing and information in order to preserve the cultural and national identity of national minorities are allocated to more than 11 million kunas, including 46 programmes relating to the financing of cultural heritage of members of the Serb national minority and only 2 programmes of the Jewish national minority of around 45 thousand kuna. In 2014, the National Minority Council, on the other hand, distributed 33 million kunas to achieve the cultural autonomy programme of associations and institutions of national minorities for the area of financing information programmes around 16 million kunas, publishing about a million, cultural amateurism about 7.5 million kunas and cultural manifestations of about 6 million kunas. I wonder what the difference is and is there even a difference between a publishing and information programme financed by the Ministry of Culture and those financed by the advice? Unfortunately, this is nowhere to be explained or presented. It is also impossible to see that the ministry financed only two minorities' programmes and those of Serbian and Jewish. The question arises whether it is possible that the remaining 20 minorities did not report to the competitions and, if so, how could they all have had less quality programs than these two? For example, the Serb minority had 46 successful programmes. We haven't had a number of times, unfortunately, when it comes to this topic, the debate comes down to numbers and statistics. It is often not deprived of impatience, and there is no number of times in the realm of what might be called hate speech. Underneath everything, we are often promoted by persons who are at risk of a fundamental right, the right to a dignified life. The report says that as part of the regional housing programme, the Republic of Croatia has received around 12m euros in grants and that the planned revision of refugee, exile and return status has been made available. It is said that the remaining refugees, exiles, returnees will be taken care of in built and purchased apartments and houses and in institutions of social care. After 20 years of the end of the war 422 people are still located in organised accommodation or in various facilities of collective accommodation at least 11 different locations. From Petrinja, Nova Gradiška, Pula, Sibenik, Zadar, to Zagreb, Popovače, Varazdin and the surroundings of Knin. Since in some of these facilities the conditions are really very bad, it is difficult to understand that there is no solution for their permanent accommodation. If we add that there is still no electricity or water in some villages, then it is no wonder that only one displaced person returned to the area of special care during 2014. These are all issues that do not have national omens and pose an inadmissible threat to fundamental human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4621	Thank you. Replica has a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Radic, you spoke about the representation of representatives of national minorities in representative bodies, including in the Croatian Parliament and in the executive bodies. And it's really a problem we need to talk about. However, I would like to direct you and draw attention to one fact, which is that the most executive body has not yet fulfilled that category. So the current government, we have two vice presidents, I don't know if we're going to have a third, but we should because that's what the law obliges us to do. So I don't know if that's going to work out, but at this point it's not settled. So we cannot talk about representation in all executive bodies if there is no highest representation. Since you are already the principles of relations, that is, the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the reciprocity of relations between the Republic of Croatia and its minorities, I would like to comment on that with a few sentences. I am actually more concerned about the relationship that Croatia has with its countrymen outside Croatia and I will tell you why. The truth is... Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have not been followed everywhere by their countries in which they live. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bosnia and Herzegovina, let's say one example that will have to be talked about a lot, about the situation of Croats there, and you cited Serbia as an example. And for example, in Hungary, that question is quite well solved. And you listed some figures, and I don't think I'm going to go too far, that I'll still be conservative when I tell you that the Hungarian state is giving 20 times as much money to the Croats as their queen of the state does. So when we talk about some absolute numbers, I think that's where we're going, and there's still a lot to work on. Is some means there also an office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia but they are mostly symbolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4623	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Radić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, that's right, I have opened the topic of an existing model of representation. I think we should discuss everything here, and look at the way in which we improve existing models. That was why I looked back on it. As for national minorities, Croatian national minorities in other countries. I will only mention that in Serbia, the Serbian side has not yet provided guaranteed seats to representatives of Croats in the Republika Srpska Assembly, that there is insufficient representation for Croats in the executive authorities. I will also mention the latest case of detestation of Radio Subotica, a huge disproportionate in the allocation of financial resources by every member of the national minority in Croatia and Serbia, moving in proportion to around 1:33 in favour of Croatia. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4625	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. My colleague Radić, well, you had an interesting discussion, and I will first of all show myself to be able to replicate one thing, or support one part of the story, and then you said that the bilateral is one of the let's say the possibility of a great progress in terms of how national minorities here in the Republic of Croatia, as well as members of the Croatian people who are national minorities in some other countries. I am in favour of the part in a large part of this mandate, as I represent, for example, the Czech Republic and Slovakia's minority where we currently do not have signed bilateral agreements. We have several agreements primarily, we have in culture, so one part of the funds are provided to the Croatian Cultural Centre in Bratislava, i.e. Slovakia, one part of the funds according to the Ministry of Culture here at the Slovak Cultural Centre in Nasice. It is working to respect this and we have not yet reached the level on our part, on the Croatian side to respect the full part but I hope that through the Ministry of Culture we will succeed and end this facility there. As for the Czech minority or as regards the Croatian minority in the Czech Republic, I am very pleased that we, both here and myself, have managed to provide a large part of the funds for the Croatian and Czech Parliament's cooperation and my colleagues in the Czech Republic and our ambassadors. It is a total of 618 thousand euros, of which 309 thousand were secured last year in the state budget of the Czech Republic for the construction and reconstruction of the Croatian House of Moravia Croats in Jevisovka. And I hope that this will be one good foundation precisely for signing a new cooperation agreement in culture but perhaps on bilateral cooperation where we will ensure the same here in the Republic of Croatia and we are working on it, because the idea is to form a museum of Moravia Croats in the Czech Republic although they are a significantly smaller minority there than, there are fewer of them here in the Republic of Croatia. But let's do it in that sense, and let me just tell you that in these few months, it is the Department of the Faculty of Philosophy in Prague that has been working on the recognition of Croatian language in the Czech Republic as the same part of the recognised language of the Croatian minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4627	All right. We move to the next exhibition, the next exhibition on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4628	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of state institutions. We have before us a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget for 2014 for the needs of national minorities. A constitutional law that is a good and comprehensive document that does not have a country with a much longer demographic tradition than ours. But on the other hand, a document that is not fully applied in its many provisions and does not have a binding character in the realisation itself. This fact thus represents that no minority representative can be satisfied with the application of this law, so neither am I. Some minorities may be more satisfied than others, but the fact that the Roma national minority I represent is still the one with the most problems, and the one to which it least benefits the opportunities stemming from this law. The reasons why it's so numerous. First of all, it should be pointed out that it is a minority with the most problems not sufficiently involved in social life, under-educated, often discriminated against, and above average poverty. A minority that has been back 700 years, so far lives below any poverty line and below any level of human dignity. As we know, the media most often portray the Roma national minority in a negative context, and there are still numerous cases of both media and real discrimination, and hate speech. Many in the Roma problem profit. The largest number of people actively engaged in the so-called so-called ". Roma problems are not members of the Roma community. Roma are today an object, not a subject of political life and the environment in which they are located. Those Roma who succeed in our society are educated and employed, they run away from the Roma problem with their heads regardless of why in our society they are still ashamed to say that you are Roma. Regardless of the levels of national strategies and laws that we are talking about here, the millions of funds invested in such projects within the Roma community do not see significant progress either in settlements or among individuals. Looking at statistics, many would say that more and more Roma schools are being educated, as it is increasingly investing that these goals are being achieved. That's how this report was made. But reality is different. We don't have Roma high school students, we don't have Roma at universities, we don't have Roma graduates. Or if we have those persons we can count on the fingers of one hand. The reason why this is so lies precisely in the fact that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion, and other documents which are often called upon by non-binding characters, and for their numerous objectives are not sufficiently set aside to achieve it. We have goals, we have planned resources, we have those who will implement it. But no one answers unless anything is achieved. Then why such positive laws, then why these documents. We have long been EU members and there is no need to imprison anyone. Roma settlements, regardless of more than 10 years of law enforcement, are essentially in the same or similar state. It took my entire previous mandate to launch a certain process in all four areas of which I speak and education, both on housing and on health care and on employment. It is not enough to have a strategy because the Roma community does not know strategies, but the facts especially of young Roma who feel disabled because they have no work and are capable and healthy to work. Who are these papers written for? For the EU? For us or to fool the Roma population? Also, at the beginning of my second term, I went into the lobbying process towards the new government and ministers, and in a tour of the counties, cities and municipalities where Roma live. On several occasions, I sent letters to the most important ministries for shorter working meetings to introduce the new ministers to the National Strategy for Roma and Roma problems as well as to the very beginning of my previous mandate. Many do not understand that it is not enough in the state budget to specify the point of Roma and a certain amount in addition. It is necessary that each ministry knows what needs to be done and that it knows how to require sub-items in the budget for concrete action. This way work is the only one that can affect the real state of the field. I also think that this report that we are discussing could show in a more detailed way how these funds have been spent. I understand the current political situation, I understand that new ministers need a certain time of adjustment, but I don't understand that some of the memos still haven't been answered. It is high time to set priorities and goals that we can meet and what will be real indicators of progress, and above all in a way that is more important to begin to change the situation on the ground. One of the priorities is to amend the Social Care Act. I call on the ministry to propose to amend the law in such a way as to allow the Roma population again to intervene without losing the right without losing social law. That's what I was talking about. It's known to everyone that Roma mostly live in isolated and remote settlements. Any contact with the outside world is impossible if they do not own a personal vehicle and do not use it for access to trade, hospital, institution, school, etc. At present, the regulation allows the possession of a vehicle in such a situation, but the amendment of that Article is in practice lagging behind. School buses, if any, are intended for children only and are not in this sense a means of public transport. It's known that an ambulance in settlements only comes if someone dies. If a woman is having a baby or if someone is chronically ill, and there is a problem an ambulance won’t come. I know of specific examples when people are told to handle transportation themselves or that a woman who gives birth is brought to the points. A provision to which persons who lose social rights because they possess that wreck is unfair. It is even worse when, due to the isolation of a vessel, one’s vehicle loses its social right, which is covered by paragraph 5 of Article 29(1). This applies not only to the Roma but also to all our citizens who are in a similar situation. The value of these cars driven by most Roma does not need to be specifically discussed because today the personal vehicle is no luxury but a need. In the following amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, it is certainly necessary to cover the problem that I state because the application of this sub-paragraph 5 leads to absurd situations in which the whole family is left without any income simply because one household member has borrowed someone's personal vehicle. In the case of one person in the area of the Social Care Centre, Čakovec the whole family is left without any income because one member of the household who does not normally have a personal vehicle in his possession served someone else's vehicle to save and visit a seriously ill child in Zagreb. Is it fair for a whole family who does not own a personal vehicle to lose all their social incomes because one household member used a borrowed vehicle? This is the law that gives the ultimate power of decision to an individual employee of the Social Care Centre, which clearly opens up too much room for discrimination against the Roma population that is already present. Employment in addition to education is a burning problem in the Roma community. The Roma generally work in NGOs as volunteers or so-called volunteers. public works during a short period of time. We have to change that. The report we are discussing today is about five, six Roma employees in the public administration, which is why we call for more political will to be shown to change that. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities also includes employment but there are no results from year to year. Even the number of national minorities employed by the public administration is decreasing. As long as we don't have Roma employees on real jobs, and not through projects and temporary employment measures, the state will spend more money through social measures to keep these people alive. At the moment of social care policy, there is no chance of hiring a prerequisite for creating people with disabilities from working citizens. Discrimination and the separation of the majority population is therefore on the rise. A good example is Kuršanec Elementary School in Međimurje, where more than 70% of the students make up Roma children, and this process increases dramatically year after year. Local authorities in Čakovec and Međimurje County, together with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, have already initiated a pilot project to resolve the issue, and its success will again depend on the financial resources and support of the competent ministry. This is the information that statistics in this report cannot show. The disproportionateness is double because existing laws are not implemented to the end and do not have a binding character, and reports on the implementation of these laws do not show a real situation on the ground. I would also like to take a brief look at the problem of the Council of Roma national minorities who do not have the conditions to work or have a good enough position in relation to the local authorities to be affected. In my work, I rely heavily on them, and I attach a lot of importance to them because they, as well as I, have been chosen by the community that I represent. But what is the purpose of the National Minority Council? Unless they have the means to function, I suggest the Ministry of Administration that at least the function of the president of these councils be professionalised. I'm saying all of this because the Roma community has to get as much involved in social and political life as possible, and that would be a step forward if the presidents of these councils were hired at the level of the county, cities and municipalities. The voice of these legitimate representatives must be heard in particular in areas concerning the community that elected them in the elections. Steps are possible in other areas, for example, as shown by the University of Health, which has referred to the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion, determined the possibility of enrolling one Roma on each study programme if it meets the minimum requirements of enrolment as laid down by the State Graduation. I hope that these changes will lead to other universities, especially those of the University of Zagreb. This report also does not show that Roma students’ scholarships are not paid in time. Those who are enrolled in this academic year have not yet received scholarships, and the National Scholarship Foundation as if it doesn't exist, no one answering the phone, no one's in the office. Will students receive scholarships for this academic year only next year? I again call on all ministers and the Government to communicate more frequently and co-operate with the Roma community and selected Roma representatives and, of course, I call on them to make this concrete not only through the state budget but also through clear projects that at least part of the existing national strategy could be realised by 2020 as a deadline. I hope to achieve good cooperation with the new government and that we will solve all the problems that we have failed to solve in my previous term. And among them is the recognition of minority languages that I represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4629	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Marija Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4630	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague, Keatazi, I listened very closely to you, and most of you are right. However, there is one other side for which I now call upon you to bring it out in public in your discussions and in your presentations. For many years, I have dealt with Roma problems, you know it well, and in the city where I have acted, I have paid particular attention to the Roma community or to the minority however you wish, although I do not like to talk about minorities, but we have given a lot through the work of the local community for the Roma community. So one more reason to call on you to talk about these local communities that work hard to make life easier for the Roma, even though it's certainly not easy for them, and it'll be a long time before it's Roma to say, it's one of its own rights that they rightly seek out for centuries. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4631	Please. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4632	Thank you. Dear colleague Mary, it is true that I am in Osijek-Baranja County where there is and a place where you were also deputy mayor where I visited several times in the last term. It is true that much has been done in that county and in that place but surely you will agree with me as I have said not enough. Because there are only basic conditions for these people's lives and as far as further education is concerned, we have to work on it. As you know, in the last term, I have done everything possible to recognize the minority language, and I am very sorry that we failed. And I am deeply hoping that we will all do so together and I expect from this government and from all my colleagues that they will support me in that. Because recognition of minority language will enable Roma representatives to be teaching, learning and their own language. Because Roma not only have problems in not knowing enough Croatian but unfortunately, Roma don't even know the Roma language. And that's why we should all do it together. Because there's something else I have to mention and say that the members of the Roma community don't have a single book written in Roma. I must say, it's an honor to all of us. And that's why we all have to make it happen together, both to recognize and to resolve such issues. Because we have to work more on education than just the infrastructure that we're kind of going into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4633	Thank you very much. We have the next line, the distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4634	Dear Mr Keatazi, the foundation of every democracy lies on the interaction between the citizens and the state and the state authorities, i.e. the rights and obligations of each citizen, and so does the representative, or member of a national minority. In order for this democracy to be sustainable, everyone has to stick to it. Or I'll be specific about how specific it is for a particular group in the budget, how much that group puts into the state budget. Is there any data on how much of the state budget is allocated to the Roma national minority, i.e. how much data, how much the Roma national minority is put into the budget. Why am I saying that when I'm talking about sustainability? You know, in Međimurje last year, 23% of the children born in Međimurje are Roma nationalities. So this raises the question of economic sustainability if we don't ask these questions. So these issues are necessary for sustainability and for the acceptance of every national minority in each environment. So these data that I am looking for and it would not be good to ask only for the Roma minority, I would very much like for these data to exist for the Italian minority and the Serb minority and each other, Slovak, Czech, Hungarian, every other minority in Croatia and to present these data primarily to members of that national minority. Because we have a situation today that when a certain member of a national minority say you can't get any more social aid because you got a child's allowance, that he's yelling they took it from me, they took it from me, they don't give it to me, it's like it's his. So there is no relationship that the state has given him something, but that relationship is as if it were his and that it was wrongfully taken away from him. And that is why I believe that in order to accept all national minorities and the sustainability of good relations with national minorities that I agree that they need to be even better and that we need to have that data available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4635	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4636	Thank you, dear colleague Ilcic. I believe you listened very carefully when I pointed out that until recently we only had two employees. This is a new report, we in public institutions have five to six Roma employees. And I don't know how you expected us to fill the budget. We all work together, we have to work on it, exactly what you said the Roma don't need social assistance, I'm one of those who works very hard on it. We must enable the Roma to work. And in fact you're aware of that in your county and county next to you, our kids who enroll in three years of schooling they can't do practice. You remember last and last year, a private man who was punished with 6 thousand kunas who didn't exactly want a member of the Roma national minority to take on practice. We're talking now he doesn't want to take it into practice and what to say about employment. I will introduce you to my example, you may know, and you may not know, I am the only parliamentary representative in the previous term who entered directly from the Croatian Employment Office. For 20 years I was at the Croatian Employment Service, I couldn't get a chance to even work Roma in that case. Maybe you do, and maybe you don't. I am the only parliamentary representative in the previous term who directly entered the Parliament from the Croatian Employment Service. For 20 years I was at the Croatian Employment Service, I couldn't get a chance to even work Roma in that case. And before that, I have to tell you that I've been working on district flight control and Dance Airport for 17 years I've had an internship. If I couldn't get any job, I don't know, and I doubt my countrymen will get it. I'll give you another example if I have time last year for three years I've only worked on the employment of one radiology engineer who's finished. I think I've pictured it in some way, and I don't want you to know about your county, and you know how much it's done in the past term together with your colleagues, because at that moment I didn't even think about who's from which municipality and from which city is party, so we've tried every possible way in the settlements where the members of the Roma community did as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4637	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Kajtazi touched the scholarships of Roma students. I agree there is a problem, but the problem is much deeper and much wider. The Roma community and all national minorities in Croatia share the fate of other students, as only 5% of students are covered by some form of scholarship. And defeating it is the fact that more than 22% of students come from a family where they receive by family member up to 1500 kuna. Here we have touched on a burning problem in Croatia that should be talked about not only from the aspect of national minorities, but from society as a whole. It's about the fact that today, it's about the fact that access to higher education has children who are richer parents. What does that mean? One day, those kids are going to get their diploma, they're going to get the power the diploma gives them. The power the money gives them already has. These people will lead this country one day, and I'm asking here if they're the most capable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4639	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4640	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Rusak, if we are trying in every way possible and what few students we have and who are finishing and should set an example for others who should continue to study, I don't think these scholarships should, because scholarships are just meant to start studying, not eventually. Because that's why we have very big problems that they're giving up on that kind of scholarship. And my personal opinion is that we have to work on it, so it doesn't happen, because we're not going to set an example for other Roma community members that it's necessary to go to school. I took, as I mentioned earlier, I was just a bad example of the community, not a good example. Because if after you finish, you can't get any job, and then you can get another one of my countrymen or my parents, because all the kids like yours and mine, they're all going down a line of less resistance. He'd rather not go or study. But there are parents who put pressure on their children so they can finish. And that's why I don't think that's good, and it's a bad example in this way not to give scholarships that are meant at the beginning of the year to come at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4641	Thank you. The next exhibition is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Democratic Party, the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4642	Your Honor, Mr. President and the Presidency, I don't know how to address you. I don't know if I'd tell you respected minorities, because today we're a minority in the Parliament and that's why it's amazing that the people we're talking about here today are practically not here. Each one gave his speech and disappeared. And I think we in the Parliament are the most disciplined minority in this society. Imagine when 151 of us and how many of us are declared parasites and earrings. Is there any worse Stigm than the one we put up with? Is there a Stigma up there and we keep our mouths shut. What we're talking about today. And that's why this brief exposure I'd call, I'd give him the title we're all a minority or we used to be or we'd be. We have a limit today because we're talking about a report that I believe is very good, thank you very much. In the report we're talking about, we're talking about respecting the law. Is there a law in Croatia that is fully respected, even if it is constitutional. Is there such a law? Are there laws that protect individuals as minorities? And for that, don't be angry, but I think these and these discussions are really a waste of time, really a waste of time. I wouldn't want to live in a country where anyone feels discriminated against. We took the terminology because we slaved clichés and schemes from some other environments where it's perfectly normal, understandable and acceptable to call people minorities. That termology, however insignificant it may seem to us, is extremely important. When you tell someone there's a minority, you've already discriminated against him. Why can't they be called people who belong to another nationality, members of an ethnic community. And in the very name of showing that we respect the fact that he's before a man and not with this termology of minorities that we're reducing him as a man, as strange as that looks. Or someone answers that this problem in Croatia, where it is in a legislative sense well regulated, is constantly a source of social tensions, accusations and the like. How do I actually experience the rights of people, people who belong to another ethnic group? I see them as a balanced relationship of integration with feelings and rights that regulate and determine his sense of self-loathing and belonging and something else. And there shouldn't be any problem here. There is no problem that man feels really equal to the part of Croatian society in both civil and political and any other sense but that he also has a sense of belonging and fostering the roots that are important to him. Why not, though. Then that makes us rich. Not the very fact that we regulate some law that we must adhere to but we are aware of the fact that laws are very often broken and not respected. Unless we in this House show this relationship to people who are primarily members of another ethnic community, then let us not expect that this will not happen beyond this House. This very fact that someone calls himself a minority in his life if not consciously and unconsciously one aggression, and I said in a replica an irrational relationship to reality. If he's not strong enough in his shouting about being a minority, then his is considered almost a traitor, which is completely pointless. And if he yells too much, then be the aggression of the majority. And in that conflict of these emotional categories, we are trapped and said to be already 10th or which report is always the same. And I'll be sure of the same thing as the 50th report. For this reason, my dear friends, the initial step is to start respecting ourselves and confronting the terror of those who produce a minority feeling, to oppose the terror of the street that discriminates against us. And then we fight for the equality of every man. I said in my line that it's not important for me because he's a member of a national minority or I want to give him any more rights on that basis, but God forbid I give him less rights. The employment we are talking about must come from the fact that someone had the exact same right to education, and then to the workplace according to their ability. But the quota itself is that you have to hire someone because it emphasizes that they belong to something, and it's primarily about a professional place not allowed. We, if we want to speak honestly, have different problems with different ethnic communities in Croatia. It's not the same problem everywhere. When the problem of education is, when the problem is to worry about the environments in which ethnic communities live, then the Roma ethnic community is certainly the most endangered. It is not the same, you know, to be a Roma in Međimurje no matter how many states work and members of an ethnic community in Zagreb. These are important differences. We must do everything to ensure that every inch of the Croatian country is organised in a way that the fundamental rights are equally deployed and that there is no discrimination between any ethnic community in these environments. I'm sorry there are no members here at least officially of the Serbian ethnic community. No, I don't agree, but I'm officially thinking about the club, so I'd like to take a look at how specific the problem is that we have to respect. This does not mean that we must live under the terror of the past and the emotions of the past but there is no law that can solve a sense of minority threat in its fundamental problem, there is no law. We can create conditions in public communication that these people do not view themselves as minorities. And if we can do it, then we've done it. I don't even have a Sandor Juhas talking about reciprocity. The pattern of reciprocity is very dangerous to bring into society. We are like a state that has been designated not only for democracy, you know democracy isn't a sacred cow that can't be allowed into it, that it can't be pollemised about what democracy is. Because if we were to speak with positions in the technical sense of democracy, then in fact, most people determine everything and the number of hands. And you can do that in some things. But in terms of human rights and this democracy is not itself, it is not by itself a guarantee that something real will happen with the position of humanity and humanity. And that's why insisting on reciprocity isn't good. We must insist on our own humanity and humanity. In order to do so at first, we must act among ourselves as people who respect one another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4643	Thank you. Replica has a respected representative, Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4644	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's Mr. Dodig, with most of your exposure, I absolutely agree and accept that we generally have the rights of national minorities too often, too, and we politicize everything. I think we will live in normal society when these issues are not discussed but when these issues are literally being implemented. However, I think that the Croatian state is here with its degree and development and the move that it has reached standards and that more or less all members of national minorities enjoy full protection and full rights. And if we're going to talk about some kind of relationship and how much of these rights are made possible to Croats in some neighbouring countries, I think it's immeasurable and of course we would like Croats to enjoy much greater rights. However, I think that even members of national minorities should not abuse their minority rights and should recognise a consistent position in the Republic of Croatia. I am primarily referring to members of individual national minorities who today are not even at odds with the fact that Croatia is a free, independent, internationally recognised state when we see certain and aspirations that are promoted through its action. Here is an example of "Serbian news" where they mock Croatian symbols, with the Croatian anthem until I mention the last case, here is the financing of the film "15 minutes - massacre in Dvor" financed by the previous government. I believe that both national minorities and all MPs in this House, all state officials should adhere to the Declarations of the Homeland War and that we should all protect and follow these values and that no national minority through its action can, through its own press in any way, deny and deny the Croatian present and the foundations on which this state was created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4645	Thank you. Would you like a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4646	Just for a little while. I was talking about another dimension of this whole problem. I agree that this should not happen, but I would not want to stegmatize the Serb ethnic community with this shameful act that is happening with the film, if you will and with the anthem. But that in my view is a problem that should not affect our relationship with the Serbian ethnic community as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4647	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4648	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Dodig, seriously 99% and congratulations on the presentation, and I agree with everything, especially that finding that we are all sometimes a minority because it is a real life and that is the reality that life brings us. I would disagree in the sense that there are no representatives of the national minorities here because when we take as a percentage there's still more of us in percentage than the others when we add up because there are 33 MPs. But I won't, I don't want to talk about it. It's just one finding because it seems to me that through your exposure you didn't understand what your colleague Juhas was saying, or the principle of reciprocity. It's not about reciprocity when we talk about human rights, minority rights, etc. Reciprocity is primarily done in bilateral agreements which bind themselves to certain, means a certain weight or can be financially, can be in rights, culture in the exchange of various I don't know, organization of events or so on. So only on that side is one finding that I believe you didn't understand because you misrepresented in your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4649	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4650	I will say only the following things that I mean, perhaps, when no country in which Croats live would want to sign such an agreement with Croatia that Croats in that country, those Croats in that country have the same rights as any other ethnic communities in Croatia, I would give it to those ethical communities again. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4651	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4652	Thank you. Dear colleague Dodig, in your presentation when the word "Roma" is mentioned, I fully agree with you, and I don't understand why it is. Given that the government adopted two strategic documents in 2003. The National Programme, later renamed in 2013 in the National Strategy as well as "Decade for Roma by 2005-2015." Action plan. It covers everything, meaning both housing and employment and health and education. I also don't understand why it's not being implemented when we have such good documents in the best way where the objectives and the measures and the means and the deadlines are inside, but as I mentioned, we don't have the responsibility to what if it's not being implemented. And it's been over 15 years. I just expect that they will finally go into realisation, because such a vicious circle that one without another cannot solve the question of the Roma will not go any further. But if we go into solving those areas that I mentioned earlier, which are covered by the National Strategy, then there will be a final result exactly what you expect both I and, of course, the entire Roma community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4653	Here's a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4654	I agree completely with you, however, but I do believe that this is not the non-implementation of this action plan and what you're talking about because of the Roma, but simply in all areas of society, we operate that way. I'm going to give you dozens of examples where the same situation is in some kind of environments that are ethnic to say otherwise, clean, unclean, anything. It doesn't matter. I mean, it's not about the relationship to the Roma. It's a matter of the relationship of our failure of the system. Not everything should be interpreted that way, because one climate is created that is not good. And that here from his position will help to really respect this law and that we have to do it. I don't want to start at all from the assumption that in this country someone's goal is to discriminate against some ethnic community. That would be terrible, it's completely contrary to the sense of man's existence. You know, for me, there's a man, a man, not a member of an ethnic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4655	Thank you. Now I'm setting up a recess and a follow-up hearing at 15.00 hours. Thank you. It's 13,29 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4656	Here we go with the session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] My colleague Hrebak gave up the debate on behalf of the club. But I don't have a colleague named Bauk, and neither does Sabine the Voice. Here, there's no esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk, not even a esteemed colleague of Sabine Vosovac. The debate was also followed by distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4657	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here today we talk all day about the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. A lot has been said more or less, but when we look back only a month from the formation of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia, the most commonly used word by representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament is a threat. I'm really saying for a full month in the media space, the word "hazard" prevails. So let's see what's written in this 2014 report that's happened over the past period, so together, maybe we can figure out if it's a threat or something else. I'm going to read first from the report, especially from those last points where the conclusions are, about certain areas that are written about the implementation of this law. This is so far the 11th edition of the report submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament. According to the received data from the Ministry and other competent authorities, a total of 144 million and 360 thousand kuna were spent for the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2014. The analysis found that members of a certain national minority account for at least a third of the local population in a total of 27 units of local self-government and members of the Serb national minority in 23 units and members of the Czech, Hungarian, Slovak and Italian in 1 unit of local self-government. The level of exercise of the right to use the language and letter of the national minority in the first and second-degree proceedings before the administrative bodies of the unit of local self-government in 2014 remained very low and almost negligible, or unchanged compared to the previous period. The basic reason for not fulfilling this right still seems to be that there is no interest in members of national minorities. That's what it says. In 2014, the Ministry of Administration did not receive any representations or recorded any objection relating to the right to preserve traditional names and designations, as well as to the use of the signs and symbols of members of national minorities. So, no play. A high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities has been achieved in the field of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. High level of implementation, I stress. In the field of education, excuse me, a high level of right has been reached in the Republic of Croatia to demonstrate its faith as well as the right to establish religious communities along with other members of that faith. The National Minority Council estimates that the exercise of the rights of national minorities to access public media during 2014 is not satisfactory due to insufficient media presentation of minority activities and content. So, a media presentation. The analysis of the achievement of cultural programmes, cultural autonomy of NGOs and national minority institutions during 2014 determines progress in achieving the right to cultural autonomy but notes insufficient knowledge of the reporting methodology for the expenditure of funds allocated from the state budget. That's what we were talking about, I think two weeks ago when it was clear how the state budget was available and what all the revisions found when we were talking about the lack of capacity in this area. Furthermore, members of the national minorities achieved their representation in the Croatian Parliament in the 2011 elections and in the local elections held in 2013 fully achieved their right to represent the representative, executive bodies of local self-government units. So you fully exercise your right to representation. Compared to 2013, several housing units were refurbished or built through reconstruction programmes in 2014 and several housing units were provided for the care of former tenants by the rental model. HRT did not fulfil obligations arising from the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2017 in relation to the content intended for national minorities. Some minority members did not object to HRT when voting on the replacement of HRT directors and I think they were if I'm not deluded or not at all at the vote. So it's the right in some way that they've even approved. The comparison of data on the number of members of national minorities in state administration bodies on 31 December indicates that the total number of registered members of national minorities in the national minorities concerned was lower by 91 employees or 0.17 in the total number of civil servants, the tenants compared to the end of 2013. However, when 2015 comes, it is likely to increase because we witnessed especially at the time of the campaign, after the campaign, the time of the technical government, with strong public procurements employed by new civil servants. That's what I'm saying in this 2014 report. And on the other hand, we have the word "hazard." These days very often and the last month almost daily. What is a threat to what is written in the implementation of this law? Let's see what's been going on in the last few months. We had until 2015, by the end of 2015, a single idyll between the members, representatives of the national minority here in the Parliament and the former Kukurik government. There were almost no dissonant tones, more or less they agreed on everything and I think it is one and a natural and normal part of representatives in the Croatian Parliament who support power, try to achieve some of their programmes for their national minorities, for the development of education, for the development of culture, etc. But then we come to a whole new experience like the experience of forming this new power. After the first elections were completed, representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament gathered at a meeting and immediately supported one candidate for prime minister. I personally experienced it in an unusual way because so far it has not been done in such a way. There was probably a procedure at the time, or it was up to 76 and the minority were not irrelevant. But is it natural, is it a natural part of the creation of a parliamentary majority, can the government be created in such a way either by minorities or by representatives of minority upgrades to some parliamentary majority that has been created? We have witnessed here a really different procedure where it's going quite the other way. And what happened is that in a way, the minorities and now we're witnessing in this House have split up, if I'm looking at it right. I'm looking at the two sides personally. We first had a unique Club of Minority Representatives and now it's a little different if I'm not mistaken. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament allow again, when we talk about the threat of something that may not know any other parliament in Europe. Or I don't know my experiences aren't like that that you can be inside one parliamentary club, it's a national minority parent club, and you can fill all the other clubs that lack one national minority representative. We other representatives can't do that. Can we, in that sense, say that we are in some part threatened because we cannot do so? And today we have a situation where several minority representatives talk about their minority policy on behalf of clubs, several clubs. It's really something to start thinking about. Is that the most normal thing? But I don't think so. I think that their role since the beginning of I say, forming, in general, the process of forming this new government was a little bit to me and that maybe even, maybe I'm wrong and maybe not, was dominated by ideological commitment in front of that minority that should be fundamental. That's my opinion. It means whether we were more concerned with ideology, whether that candidate for prime minister is more important than who I am or who I'm supposed to represent. And now we've come to this situation which, unfortunately, we now have here in the Parliament that some parts of these minority representatives support the government and others are explicitly against. And we're headed to an area called threat. This report on the rights given by this constitutional law does not show this threat, it cannot be seen. We can only talk about some kind of ideology where some people felt like something had been cut off. And those representatives are very loud. The 2016 budget came out and there are no major shifts in terms of not knowing, that this government has taken some moves that could go to harm that could talk about some kind of threat to the representatives of the national minority and then all the members, i.e. All citizens of the national minority have a slightly more thrifty budget as far as I have been able to see all the figures, but surely the way and rules of conduct in the distribution of these funds are different, and this will be shown through the 2016 words. So once again, I do not experience that national minorities are at risk in Croatia because nothing special or fatal has happened in the past few months on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4658	Replica, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4659	My colleague, Boric, I'm surprised that I can even agree with you on some things. But here you somehow seem to be mixing form and content. It's no use talking about danger the way you present it. Here it only warns of certain problems that can be escalated, which can then cause a certain unpleasant situation throughout the community. That's the point. And when you talk about danger, if you use inappropriate words, I'm not going to say now that we're not going into some controversy because I don't think it really makes any sense, but they're being said. It's something that's unacceptable and I've only warned about it, nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4660	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4661	Comrade Pecnik and you in this House are a representative who often uses a certain level of let's say verbal communication that may cause it. But this verbal communication is two-sided. She's not just on one side. And in the last few days, she's been bipartisan again, and I can't even tell the members of the national minorities that they didn't have much of a share in it either. Someone's still saying something. There have been such statements today and they continue, because it is clearly the goal of keeping some kind of tension in the media space. But it among the population, among the members of the national minorities, is certainly not at that level that is presented in the media space. That's, that's my feeling. There were individual excesses in Vukovar, young students, I don't know, etc. But it's not a rule of conduct so we can talk about danger. The threat would be that I do not know in the new budget has not left enough resources for national minorities to exercise their rights in all the forms listed here in this Constitutional Law. The threat is completely different from what we have today's perception of outwards. That is why it is on every one of us, even from the gentlemen who represent national minorities here in the Croatian Parliament, that they too consider whether each of their actions is just as affected, so that they have not caused anyone, and that they have said all that perhaps they should not say, and then when they return, then it becomes potent again and we go further into some extreme on both sides. So it's a big part to say on the new Parliament, on the new assembly of parliaments, but also that minorities clearly say I think in what way they're going to function in future times. Because seeking only rights and constantly talking about the threat will not lead us on the right path, and it is possible that there will be even more problems on that path.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4662	Replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my dear colleague, Boric, what I must conclude, and I believe that you will agree with me is that today's theme is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, etc. For 2014, so I believe that most of your exposure had absolutely nothing to do with this topic. With some things of course he could agree, however, you said that members of national minorities or national minorities in Croatia are saying they are threatened. First of all, I can't agree with that. I think most things are coming out of context, unfortunately media is being placed, and then only the threat of partisans, Ustashas, etc. is being talked about. Which I'd like to put absolutely here on the side. And I can responsibly claim to you that in this context that you have talked about, and I am responsible for that because here in the last ten years I have been able to responsibly argue to you that no member of any member of the Czech Republic, or of the Slovak national minority in the Republic of Croatia, was absolutely at risk and I believe in that context which you have spoken of none of the others, especially when we talk about communities, about Croatian citizens who care about tradition, language and culture of their own, let's call it the old countries from which their ancestors came, and they still feel in some way, not in some way, but as Croatian citizens as we have heard here today pay taxes, here we all live together, etc. As for the audit reports that you mentioned about the National Minority Council, it was the review report for the one year before, so I believe that, further when the other reports arrive, we will see that the advice was based on that report, and that some associations had to recover the funds. And just to tell you that based on the criteria of the National Minorities Council, such associations which are not, means that they have not purposely spent the funds because they did not give the financial reports, they have been banned from running for that part of the funds in the first place for three years. And just as you're finally saying that, in a certain part, there's going to be a thrift budget. Here I am here directly, this is not a budget, but here in this segment I can tell you that minorities are not only rich in the Republic of Croatia in terms of culture, tradition, language and enriching and Croatian culture, but here is a copy. The Czech Republic is in this last period Let me just finish my sentence. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] She invested more than 18 million kuna directly in Croatian schools where Czech language is taught, in Croatian kindergartens and other cultural homes, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4664	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4665	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bilek, I looked back on this report and I read from it to pull one parallel as it worked in 2014. Probably a better report in 2015 than it was for 2014. And then we came to 2016 and the process of new government formation and I just wanted to show that when we talk about the threat then we have to say what happened so that we can talk about the threat. But here we see that we have some rights that minorities don't want to use at all, we've read who they are. We have those that are used only partially, and there are those that want to be used maximumly. It's those financial support and I can understand it. And it is certain that the job of both you and each of us here in the Parliament is to try through the Republic of Croatia as our country, as well as through other countries that are yours, that we can get funds for certain programmes and that it should be some kind of minority policy. And then I said that in the process of forming power we did show, and it's kind of wrong for me that minorities went more in terms of ideological one part that maybe they were more primary than the part that they were supposed to fight for, which is minority rights and policies that they can only implement with the government that is now. It is such, the parliamentary majority has been formed and I think it is a natural way for minority representatives to stand by the government and implement their programmes. What kind of way it's gonna be for them to come true. But the Priory v will not contribute to any resolution, and then we come into the sphere in which we speak, which is a threat. And I think it's a completely wrong path for one, and probably for both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4666	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4667	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You told your colleague Boric that national minorities, i.e. National minority representatives supported the government immediately at the start of the so-called ‘Government’. at the beginning supported by ideological and secular principles. You were going to say that they took less care of their base, i.e. about the people they represent, these are the meanings of our fellow citizens of other nationalities. However, I would partly agree with you that national minorities and their representatives should protect the interests of their fellow citizens and national minorities of these ethnic groups that are literally the wealth of Croatian society. And I'd also have to disprove you in part. So, national minorities during HDZ authorities, during Ivo Sanader's second term were directly in the executive power, meaning directly in the coalition with HDZ if I can remember the SDSS, so I wouldn't exactly base national minorities exclusively on the ideological world view and that their representatives forget their citizens. However, the fact is that national minorities can contribute much more to their fellow citizens if in the budget they meet this sort of thing, and what is our obligation, all of us who are representatives of the ruling, to meet certain conditions for these ethnic groups of our national minorities. However, it is much more important and more important that in this assembly at this time not all representatives of national minorities and we are discussing this issue. It's such a bad message to those voters to me. I apologize to all those who are present, that this is a terrible bad message, and especially to our citizens who are other nationalities. I hope that in the future, in cooperation with the current government and the future government, they will cooperate in the interests of their/our fellow citizens. national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4668	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4669	You may not have listened well to me. I didn't say that members of national minorities were never in power, i.e. Every government has had their support so far. That wasn't at all controversial. I was just saying that this new way of forming the ruling parliamentary majority and the new government is a little different from what we've had so far, and that the minorities present minority representatives have made their own unique contribution. They all voted in favour of the prime minister that we remember all right, but we see that there is a different kind of functioning in the Parliament that may be a little bit so far unusual. But it will show time to say which side it will go to and how it will go. I think all rights, everything that makes policy towards minorities, will be achieved by this government, and there will be a time and a place where such policies will be discussed in the future. And I don't think we're going in the wrong direction and we can't talk about danger in Croatia. I just insist on it because it's a broad term under which we can undermine a lot of things, and I think that this report, and every next one that will come when we talk about the achievement and degree of the rights they achieve, can't exactly talk about the threat, perhaps we can talk about some minor means, financial resources or part of the unfulfilled programmes. But it'll show the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4670	Replica, the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4671	Dear colleague, I don't know, we've said a lot here today, and we've all talked about it more or less that we're part of this society, that we share evil and good, that we're trying on this report to get to the best of things. We want that report as it is now next year to be better and that next year, even better to the pride of all those living in this country and national minorities. And I think that's the point, and now you don't have to draw any conclusions here all the time and mix pears and apples. The other thing is, you've mentioned the threat on many occasions. I didn't hear, although I wasn't here the whole time, but in 90% of the debates, I didn't hear any of the representatives of the national minority that word endangerment. We're talking about problems, these problems need to be solved, and then there'll be a society without a problem. The next thing you know, you've mentioned on many occasions that the MPs have set themselves up one way or another. As far as I know, I'm looking forward to a preferential vote. There are MPs who got 10 grand, 11 thousand votes, and I got 2.5 thousand votes, and I can say that I'm not really on that ladder at the end of it. I consider myself a fully equal member of this House as well as others, those who have received do not know 700 votes or 500 votes or 1000 votes. So I think it's my right and it's the right of all of us minority representatives to commit ourselves in the way we think we're going to contribute best to our community. And at this point surely we will contribute most to our community if we cooperate with the existing government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4672	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4673	Thank you very much. Comrade Juhas, there was also a threat today, you didn't say specifically, there were other representatives in the Parliament, but as soon as we get out of this assembly, then it goes into the public media space exactly that word. Here, look at today's portals, again on the threat. And we're always chasing the word "word" here and there until it comes to some end and it gets more uninteresting. And I was talking in the direction, and I tried to prove that this report is also saying that there's not a lot of ground to be able to talk about the threat. The next budget for 2016 is the second week of the debate and then we may again be using similar or different words but will show politics that it is not. I think it's up to all of us to sort of throw this word out, at least I think that's what media space looks like, because I don't think that minorities in Croatia are at risk, I think they have the right to be realized in accordance with the possibilities of the state, and that in the event of some kind of struggle or problem, it's the simplest way to solve these problems by talking and not by further warming up the atmosphere that then starts again in some other direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4674	Thank you. Final 5th-minute address on behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This is a report submitted by this government on the work of the former government in 2014. And they figured out something like that that would have made us think that we were doing good but that we could have done better. However, I would like to highlight two things in particular in this report. On the 36th page, it seems to me that the number of employees in state administration bodies is lower than in 2013 by 2200. And despite Mr. Boric's expectations that there will be something more for 2015, it won't. It won't be any more, so it's complete, so proof that the current government has admitted that it's the whole fama about so-called. Inflation, etc., is simply not true. So the number of employees in state bodies has been shrinking all the time. The number of members of the national minorities decreased proportionally as much, the difference is minor, I think it's from 3.51 to 3.49 because of the new methodology because we put together the register of employees with the register of voters, so we could see what the nationality data was. What is more important, however, is that on page 5, the Government of the Republic of Croatia described the overall situation with the use of the language and letter of the Serbian National Minority in the city of Vukovar and the actions and administration ministries and then the Government, and it did not issue any remarks. That should also be emphasized. So despite all the criticisms we've heard from those less pathetic to more pathetic but also the serious ones, we're doing something that's not legal, we're breaking Article 8. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, none of which are listed in this Report. I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not refer to the Constitutional Court and the request to assess the constitutionality of the latest constitutional decisions in the city of Vukovar, but here I hope that it will also be done by the parliamentary working body or the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities to see whether it is constitutional or not. As regards the use of the language and the letter, which I think is something that, whose practice is the most deviating from what is written in the law, primarily due to the merit or guilt of the Croatian roads, which have placed a bilingual entrance to Cyrillic, a bilingual traffic sign, i.e. an inscription on entering the place and in the Lower Lapco for persistent insistence, primarily my and colleagues then at the Ministry of Administration. It's something we can all fix together and prove our political will. Because I can understand that someone thinks it's not yet time for that sign to be on its way into Vukovar, although the law says it should. But I can't understand what the problem is in Krnjak, Plaška, Ervenik diocese and other settlements in which it was achieved 12 years ago, which is now 15 years ago. Therefore, I would say that this is still a lack of political will, it is the government's fault, or administration in which I was a member. But what is the failure of this government is, in my opinion, an open avoidance of the face-to-face with us having something in law that isn't being implemented. For example, today we spoke of a colleague Horvat about the registration of schools in Podunavlje, so the legal provision is very clear. Unfortunately, the county has not done as it says in the law, so it has yet to bear any sanctions. And the ministry's representative yesterday said on the board that these schools and should not be registered because they were not subject to the law and were told by lawyers in the ministry. Therefore, it also needs to be looked at a little bit better. I hope that the debate on the following reports will be deprived of the subject of threats and other things in which the law stipulates the rights for which we have internationally accepted the obligation are not respected, or that they are not implemented not because of the lack of money, because this is a valid reason but also because of a lack of political will. That on that symbolic level is already a serious reason. And in that sense, I think it would be good for public figures who appear in public to stay away from the expressions of the type "if you don't like it here go somewhere else" and so forth. And simply not to be a daily political topic such as the daily political theme in the period when HDZ and the SDSS were at national level in a coalition that began with the famous anthological sentence of Ivo Sanader in 2004 "Christ was born." It was a new period which unfortunately turned in a negative direction, and it is up to us that, for all of us, and especially for the government to change that direction and to go in a positive direction again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4676	Thank you. The proposer's representative will not take the final word. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This concludes today's session. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Thank you. The session was interrupted in 15.35 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-10-0.u4677	The following is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 for the needs of national minorities. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 for the needs of national minorities is hereby adopted. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 117 votes in favour, none against. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached as proposed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. We now have a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 for the needs of national minorities. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. This report was accepted at the session of the Croatian Parliament on 11 March 2016. We now have a vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which reads: "It is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia No. UVIIR-4640/2014 of 12 August 2014, National No. 104/2014.". I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Who's in favour of this proposal? Please vote. I find that with most votes, of 114 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the proposed conclusion in the text as proposed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
