ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u512	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the end of the term of office of Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, Ms Anka Slonjšak, 30 May 2016, within the meaning of the provision of Article 22(1). Law on the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and on the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 23 March 2016 The government of the Republic of Croatia, through the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, has issued a public call for candidates for the appointment of lawyers for disabled persons. A total of 5 applications were received on a public call. A five-member commission of state officials of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has been appointed to carry out a review of the application of the Ombudsman’s application for persons with disabilities, which has established that out of the total of 5 applications received, two applications do not meet the formal requirements of a public call and are applicants of the same applications on the grounds of non-compliance with the formal conditions notified by written means. In order to determine the competences and experience of candidates in the field of promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and to assess the motivation of candidates for action in the field of promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities with candidates who meet the formal requirements of a public call, interviews have been held. It has been found that it has, to the greatest extent, competences in line with the needs of the Advocate General's office for persons with disabilities, Anka Slonjak. In accordance with the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, on 12 October 2016, on the basis of the procedure carried out following a published public call, the proposal for a decision to appoint the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities was laid down. Anka Slonjak, a graduate economist and former Ombudsman for people with disabilities, is proposed for the appointment of a lawyer for people with disabilities. Ms. Slonjšak, given the competences she has and her previous experience in the field of promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and the basis of the assessment of her motivation for further action in this area, corresponds to the needs of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and I ask the Honorable House of the Croatian Parliament to respect this proposal and appoint Ms. Slonjšak as Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u513	I would like to thank the applicant's representative. Reported for the word of Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh Replica. [[Intruder: Replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u514	Dear Madam Minister, the minimum of our expectations was to apologize to the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Technical Government for what is happening today. So you said yourself, Mrs. Slonjak expired on 30 May 2016 and the government only joined the story in late March. So the way the government has approached this problem has been undetected so far. So that's how you treat the deadlines in such an important body as the D.A.'s for people with disabilities is scandalous. The Croatian Parliament worked until early July this year. And that you couldn't carry out the procedure in time but to bring the entire defense system to the shooting, or to the dysfunction, is something that requires an important, not a personal guess, but in the name of the government an apology to this House. Today is the last day when its deputies are on duty and we do not vote on this today, we would have come to the fact that Croatia is left without an extremely important defence institute for people with disabilities. In that sense, I ask you to take the opportunity to respond to my reply and apologize to us all on behalf of the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u515	Replication response, Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u516	Thank you. So I can be in the next Assembly by the time I learn this. I apologize for your comment. I thank the honourable representative. Well, it is absolutely no problem for me to apologize on behalf of the Croatian Government, especially for a group of disabled persons represented by this Ombudsman because we consider it to be a very serious institution, an institution that has a very important role. I'm personally very sorry, and I believe everyone else has come to this, but here I think we're still on the clock, and today the deputy is running out of mandate, so from tomorrow, as far as I know, the lawyer will be in office, and the office won't be without a signer. And yet another of the hearts of an apology to all those who may have been wronged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u517	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, the representative will be Ines Strenja-Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u518	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. On October 17th, the UN decision marks itself worldwide, marking the International Day for Combating Poverty and Social Inclusion worldwide. Poverty is a global problem today, unfortunately Croatia is no exception to black world statistics, and we have witnessed that over the past few years, economic movements and instability around the world have affected the growth of the number of poor people. The fact is that poverty does not know the limits of age, sex, religion and religion and data show that the number of children in the Republic of Croatia who depend on social assistance has increased by as much as 10% for two years. More than 50% of pensioners receive a pension less than the average pension, and unfortunately in the poor category there is more and more and more active people who remain jobless and work and do not receive salaries, as well as young people whose unemployment rate is at the very top of Europe. And as one of the largest categories are disabled people who are double affected by their disability and poverty, which is often due to incapacitation for work. So we need to become aware of the scale of poverty in Croatia and we need to put the priority of our action primarily in order to ensure the minimum living standards of the most vulnerable part of the population and to prevent a new phenomenon of poverty and social exclusion with a view to the long-term improvement of the quality of life of the most vulnerable groups in our country. So today we're selecting a lawyer for people with disabilities and the club of the Independent Lists will support the government's proposal to re-elected Mrs. Anka Slonjšak today. Not only because of the delay in deadlines, but also because of the exceptional results she has achieved since 2008 as the right attorney for persons with disabilities in Croatia founded and started working in this office. As you know, the Advocate's Office has been established so that citizens of the Republic of Croatia can submit a proposal to discuss issues of importance for the protection of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. But it's just a small part of her work. In addition to the counsel's work with parties of all age groups of various damages and consequently disability specific to the areas of accessibility, mobility and housing of women with disabilities, employment and labour, pension insurance, social protection, health care and independent life and life in the community. Ms. Slonjšak has also participated in the preparation of numerous proposals and laws and sublegal acts for the past 8 years that regulate areas of interest for people with disabilities, but also concrete recommendations in how to build a complete system of care for persons with disabilities and influence on public policies in a way that is designed and tailored to persons with disabilities. And her personal example because she's also disabled with a high percentage of damage. It has shown that despite the disability of a disabled person, they can only be active in a different way, and that people with the most difficult disability can perform the most complex functions. Her insistence on the rights of disabled persons and the establishment of an office that had not even existed before has also been recognised as an advisory body by individuals as well as legal persons, associations, different institutions. She has made a number of recommendations to the mayors to provide funds in their budgets to adapt the entrances so that all its citizens can enter schools, pharmacyes, shops and health institutions. Her résumé and everything she listed and in addition to what's on your benches is really impressive. But I would like to talk about another segment of her activity, Mrs. Slonjak very often spoke about women with disabilities as well as their right to work. Otherwise, women with disabilities are most often referred to in cases where they have become victims of violence, i.e. at gatherings and debates in which their empowerment is intended in an effort to elect equal rights in the family, in the environment and especially in the working environment. And it all stops there most of the time. The right to work as a fundamental human right for people with disabilities is a prerequisite for achieving independence on the assistance of others, the possibility of independence in decision-making and life choices and independent life in the community. Despite the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and many other international and national documents, action plans and initiatives, as well as the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the employment of persons with disabilities does not have the expected and necessary starting direction. Obstructions of higher employment among people with disabilities in our country are becoming less and less evident in employers' attitudes. The growing problem is precisely in the rigidity of an educated system that still does not follow the needs of the labour market and does not link them to the possibilities of people with disabilities. The problem of lack of legal regulation in the field of professional rehabilitation and the introduction of various modes of employment of flexible forms of work and incentives for self-employment is particularly highlighted. We must not agree to the often shown justifications that the economic situation in the country is responsible for such a large number of unemployed and that people with disabilities make up a relatively small share of the total unemployed. Such views, according to which persons with disabilities share the fate of all unemployed, represent false equality and poses the risk of maintaining the existing situation and denying the importance of participating persons with disabilities in the creation of goods and services, while neglecting the obligation of society to provide them with it. Almost every person, despite his disability, has the capacity for a certain type of work if we create those specific conditions that their contribution represents the achievement of their best abilities. I also warn that the obligation of quota employment was respected only by five of our ministries. And once again, I call on the future government to take care of this and to prove, by example, for others both in the public and private sectors, that the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is being implemented consistently. Because disability is human diversity, not synonym for incompetence. Therefore, because of all the competences so far and the outstanding results so far in the work of Ms. Anka Slonjšak in working with persons with disabilities and promoting the protection of persons with disabilities, I call on this home to support the proposal and to choose Anka Slonjšak as attorney for persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u519	I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u520	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Strenja-Linic, I must tell you that there are no disabled persons. You've said that a few times. These people are okay, they're just disabled, and that's why they say there are people with disabilities and not disabled people. It is something that may not seem important to you, but it is very important when we discuss them and their problems. Everything you said about Mrs. Slonjak I absolutely sign. I had the opportunity and the honour of working with her in two Assembly meetings, in the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities was extremely active and helped us with its contribution. But what's being asked as a question and what I have to ask again may be rhetorically asked not only of you but also of the minister who is present here why so far has been waiting. It's the only thing I don't understand when we're all talking about Mrs. Slonjak in superlatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u521	Thank you. In the debate, the HDZ Club and their representative, Mr Reiner, reported further. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u522	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this proposal and especially because Mrs. Slonjak has pointed out as one of the initiators of the introduction of an independent life concept of persons with disabilities in Croatia, which markedly pointed out with her commitment to the education of children and young people on the acceptance of persons with disabilities and the removal of prejudice towards them. Because we know regret that there are these prejudices. They are sometimes hidden, they are not always visible at first sight but they objectively remain, and she has made great efforts to reduce them. Since my colleague Strenja-Linić said a lot of things that I was going to say, I'm going to shorten my debate very much, but I'm going to say something that is extremely important to the public to know, and that you all know, and that's why it's only today that's being discussed. Because some who ask these questions know very well why it came about. The fact is that it was not chosen or initiated in time for selecting the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. However, she had her deputy and her deputy presented her report. Somewhere it may have been. And since there have been political events that we all know well, there have been two points that I personally suggested as the theme of one of the Parliament's sessions, plenary sessions of the Parliament, holding that they are very important and that they deserve that, if not for other points, this Parliament, this one in the plenary assembly, is meeting and voting them. One was just this one. Because I have drawn attention to the opposition that this will happen, that it can easily happen that the government is not elected and that the Parliament is not being established. Fortunately, the Parliament has established itself. But it could've happened that the Parliament wasn't constituting and then that office was left without a lawyer and no deputies, so I would've said it completely in a vacuum. That was my argument one. Others can immediately tell you it was a ratification of Montenegro's accession agreement with NATO, saying it was of paramount importance to the Republic of Croatia, which, however, said it would be one of the first countries to ratify the agreement. I guess now we'll be one of the last countries, and then the opposition refused the presidency to hold another session where those two points that I thought were important, and now it seems the same to you, the same ones who are now wondering why it's coming to order, then obviously they didn't think they were important, now they think they were very important, were rejected. It was refused to hold another session of the plenary assembly. I had to say that so there wouldn't be any doubt about who's to blame because today it's just being debated. We could've discussed it in the last term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u523	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The first to appear for replica was a respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u524	Thank you, Mr. President. Academic Reiner explained it, and I'd like to say it one more time. So, I didn't want to make it a point in my presentation, but it's actually very hypocritical because the opposition is guilty of not being elected by the lawyer. Because as I know, so do you know that you didn't want another session to be called in to elect a lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u525	I'm sorry, but you have the right to a replica of exposure, not a replica of a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u526	I had a replica of his exposure and I wanted to make a point and thank you again for saying, "Let's know who's hypocritical here, so he didn't want to choose."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u527	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u528	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, colleagues Strenja-Linić you are absolutely right and I am glad that you also reminded of it because obviously what I keep saying is amnesia of endogenous, political amnesia, an endogenous disease in Croats so it seems like something that was still a few months ago was that never even existed. Yeah, there was, there was a suggestion, there was a guess who suggested it, you know who turned it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u529	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Pernar has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u530	Excuse me, Mr. Petrov, again the same article, means 238, Mrs. Strenja-Linić was actually giving a replica of a colleague from the SDP, not Mr. Reiner. And you didn't warn her because she's your party colleague, and you warned me, sir, when I spoke last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u531	Dear Representative Pernar, I have warned for this reason and the representative Strenja-Linić, and I have absolutely no privilege towards certain MPs, you do not need to warn me about this. If you feel that my answer is not of quality you have a 24 hour chance to report to the board, feel free to report it and the board will watch. Thank you. Next, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, appeared, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Reiner, I'm a professor of expertise, not necessarily political science, but obviously I have to repeat here what's an opposition and what's a position and who's more responsible. Dear colleague, I think the position had a majority in that same Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and that it could decide what it wanted. That's the first thing. The other thing is that for a fiasco called the past Government of the Republic of Croatia you cannot blame the opposition. I think the responsibility was on this part of the assembly, that you had enough hands to decide on such matters if you thought they were extremely important. And the third thing, dear colleague, I see in the material that we have received that the government has taken a decision at its meeting on 12 October to appoint a lawyer. So I don't know how you meant to put it on the agenda in July or in June if it says here October 12th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u533	Replica response, Your Honor, Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u534	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic and only enough to ask your representative, Vice-President of the Parliament, who participated in the session of the Assembly Presidency where this was proposed, and you will know then and the answer, you would not ask me that question. We wanted to reach a consensus then, the consensus was rejected. And I didn't want to force and most of my hands to do some kind of pressure you know that certain very important points vote or don't vote. I personally think that around those two points we could reach a consensus. I deeply believe that we actually had a consensus and why it wasn't done I don't know, ask your representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u535	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The replica was also reported by respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u536	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Reiner can't really blame the opposition for not putting something on the agenda. That's why there's a lot of them. The problem was that you could not collect the quorum throughout the 6th month in Parliament and therefore did not come to the agenda, not because in the Parliament's presidency the opposition was against it. So relationships are what, 4:2? Therefore, decisions in Parliament cannot be expected to be taken by consensus, so there is a majority. So it could have been put on the agenda that it was prepared and there was a quorum in the Parliament. And transferring responsibility to the opposition for something the position hasn't done, I mean, it's a minimum of some of the frameworks we have to stick to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u537	Dear Representative Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u538	Thank you very much. Well, the Honorable Madam Representative, there's probably a difference between you and me, absolutely, because I believe deep down that some things can and must be reached by consensus. And that we don't always have to be opposing sides. That there are things that are beyond daily policy and that are of common interest. So that's why I suggested it at the time. At the time, I suggested that we try to reach a consensus and that both opposition and position be for it because it seemed to me that both of the other things and the choice of the defender and the ratification of Montenegro's NATO entry were of general importance for the Republic of Croatia and its citizens and that consensus could be reached. You obviously think we have to be in a fight all the time and always have to be one against what the other says. I don't think so, I think that if an opposition to a good suggestion that a position can be for him as well as if the position that a good proposal opposition can be for him and that gives me some things would be very good that we have a consensus especially for things that are of general importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u539	Thank you to the esteemed representative for his reply to the replica. Before we go to an individual debate, I would just like to read the notice to the members of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. The meeting of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs will be held today on 17 October 2016 at 12.15 in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić 133/1. Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first of the advocates to answer the word is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u540	I have only one question for Minister Juretic and it is this: why Stjepan Petrisic, the candidate for the appointment of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, did not respond to the application for legal interpretation of Article 21(1). The Advocate General Act on Persons with Disabilities and gave legal interpretation of the conditions that a lawyer for persons with disabilities may be appointed as a candidate who has at least 10 years of working experience in promoting and protecting the rights of persons with disabilities. Does the proposed candidate fulfil that requirement for at least 10 years of work experience in the field of promotion and protection of persons with disabilities today and whether or not it was met during the first appointment of 2008? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u542	Thank you very much. If it has come, and I believe that a written inquiry has come, I believe that both members or employees have answered, but I will check and I will give you a written answer. As for meeting the requirements of the candidate, believe me, it does not meet the conditions that we would not propose it, so certainly Mrs. Slonjak meets the conditions provided for in the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u543	Thank you, Proposer. The next representative to report for an individual debate is Mr Jovanovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u544	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. A part of my colleague, Beus and counterpart Hajdukovic, has already said a part of which I wanted to talk about and express my dissatisfaction that the Office of Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities has been without a leader since 30 May. So, dear colleagues and colleagues, and this is an example in which we prove that people with disabilities do not have the rights that they should have in accordance with all the regulations that apply. It all says nice on paper, and in reality, we usually make an appointment where we shouldn't, so that's how it was here for people with disabilities. So if we knew that the mandate expired on May 30th, then this House on May 29th was to make a decision and appoint a new lawyer, not wait for some extraordinary session. And all the excuses we've heard from the distinguished Academyman Reiner actually fall into the water. So, as a Parliament on the Government proposal, we should have an attorney-general in May and that would be the only correct relationship to this Office and to all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. I want to personally, and I believe in the name of all my colleagues to thank everyone in the Office for doing their job in spite of such a relationship, taking care of persons with disabilities, and I especially want to thank you for everything that Mrs. Slonjak has done in her term and, of course, wish her a lot of success in the next period where I would like to remind you that the particular area that Mrs. Slonjak highlighted was the education of persons with disabilities because it is actually crucial. All of them need to be able to provide quality education in order to get a good job based on their abilities and to be equal participants in all of those social activities that we have in the Republic of Croatia. With this in mind, I would like to remind you especially of the future government that as soon as possible ensure that all the helpers continue to carry out their normal work, because again, some children do not have helpers in teaching, and we are denying them to fulfill all of their abilities that will ensure their normal life. I believe that you have all received a leaflet from the “Imagine” Association, which takes special care of the assistants in the follow-up and I hope that in our mandate we will be more successful in fulfilling all those obligations arising from the law when it comes to persons with disabilities. And I wish Mrs. Elephant a lot of success in her work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u545	Thank you. Replica, reporting for the replica, the esteemed representative of Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u546	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, you initially tried to distract the subject from the fact that I will point out again. There was a proposal, and it was known that the prosecutor had expired, but that her deputy was running out of mandate with today's date, we wanted to settle it, your party refused to resolve it in such a way as to hold another plenary session of the Parliament. So let's not turn away from the subject, let's say the truth of what it is. You made a mistake then, say you made a mistake, so here you are, sinning on her human.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u547	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u548	Thank you, Mr. Reiner, former President of the Croatian Parliament. So, if Mrs. Slonjak's term ends on 30 May 2016, who's to blame that we didn't have a newly appointed person, head of the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities on 1 June 2016? I believe those who had most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u549	I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. So the motion for a decision to appoint a lawyer for people with disabilities. Please engage and let's vote. Thank you, the vote is over. I find that it is unanimous with 111 votes for the decision to appoint a lawyer for people with disabilities. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 5. They shall be proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and the HDZ Club, on the basis of Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've already taken the material to the benches. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this and the legislative proposal should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Representative Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u551	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, very briefly, at the very beginning, because a good part of the MPs who are here and in this conference are already aware of what this is about, so here is just some basic points and highlights. Therefore, the law now in force found that the funds for the regular annual financing of political parties are determined in the amount of 0.05 of the operating expenditure previously incurred in the annual report on the implementation of the budget. And such a concise provision means, in fact, that the state spends more on political parties than on political parties. We believe that such a solution has no justification and that it is far more logical to link the financing of political parties to the revenue generated by the budget and therefore we have made this proposal. What is happening as a consequence of this proposal in this year and will happen in the next year is a certain reduction in the financing of political parties but not a reduction that will go towards having nothing to finance the parties but a difference in some matter above 6 million kuna. So we've been applying this law since the beginning of this year, the party would have 57 million kuna at their disposal, and this way, in the case of this law, 51 million kuna, and I think that's enough argument for all those who think we want the parties to leave without money and direct them to be financed only by private donors. The bridge of the Independent Lists is considered to be a political party's funding, among other things, from the state budget but that this funding should depend on revenue and that this funding should be slightly lower in particular under conditions in which the Croatian state has been in place for a number of years. Here I call upon all MPs to support this proposal, which is certainly more reasonable than we've had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u552	I thank the respected representative Simic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first one came forward for discussion by the SDP Representatives' Club. On their behalf, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u553	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed amendments to the law refer to Article 3 of this Act but I would like to read Article 4(1) first. It reads: "The right to regular annual funding from the state budget has political parties that have representatives in the Croatian Parliament and independent representatives who have been elected from independent lists." In the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we had a case that the right to finance had an independent representative who was elected from the party list against this law. That is why I believe that the funds he has received should be redistributed to the other MPs from this call on the Croatian Parliament and the political parties. That's what I had to say in the introduction so it wouldn't give us a break. It's about funds for Mr. Mirko Raskovic. As far as this bill is concerned, it is incorrect, Mr. President, that the report of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was taken to the benches, you read it in the introduction because the session was interrupted because it was not, or I apologize, it was for the second law, so it was with 5 votes in favour, and I think 3 or 4 votes were abstentioned. And we are therefore in a position to be abstentioned about this law on the board, and therefore we will be restrained in this debate. As far as emergency procedures are concerned, I have another dilemma. In addition to the agenda, this law is the only law proposed by the club of the Independent Lists and the HDZ Club. And according to the Rules of Procedure, in order for something to go into emergency procedures, either 15 MPs or clubs with 15 representatives should be proposed, either together, or in sum. Since these other clubs are not proposed by the HDZ Club, these other laws are not proposed by the HDZ Club whether this means that you do not have enough for the urgent procedure of these other laws and they did not want to help you. That's the same question, but good. Of these guarantees of yours, this will be the only law that will probably come into effect and we'll see when the government is formed. As for the text, it is good, therefore, that this amount given from the state budget is linked to budgetary revenues rather than to budgetary expenditures. The amount foreseen, so 0.075 % of the tax revenue achieved from the previous annual budget implementation report could be clearly calculated in the law's reasoning. So we have a law where all variables are known only in reason there's no amount of how much it's going to cost total. Which is bad because point 3 states: “The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. ” It is necessary because the amount that would be higher under this law than what is currently in the budget. So it's something that's missing from this law. I would also like to remind you that in May 2015, the Croatian Parliament discussed in its first reading the draft Law on the financing of political activity and choir promotions and referendums. So he's something fatter than this law. I am sorry that, during this short period of the HDZ and MOST government, the whole law was not passed because the referendum procedure had to be regulated and in this sense our proposal was similar. So the funds for regular annual financing are secured in the state budget in the amount, at which point it was 0.08%, so that's around here, and up to a maximum of 50 million kuna. So it's again a very similar proposal and in this context it's a repair. As for the need for this to go according to the emergency procedure, we have made a statement in the vote, but I appeal to the application of the Law on the financing of political activity, election promotions and the referendum that is now in force and that political parties who have not received funding from the budget for the normal functioning of these funds and payments for a long time. Namely, I am one of those who considers it good, positive and only normal for political parties to be financed from public and transparent sources, therefore from the budget based on the support they have received from citizens and the number of MPs they have received from citizens, but to be financed in the way we have the opportunity to testify in certain court proceedings on the financing of one of the largest and headquarters parties in Croatia which we have the opportunity to see and the case in court. Therefore, the SDP club will be restrained around this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u554	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The first for replicas came from a representative of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u555	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my replica refers primarily to what you last said. So personally, I do not think that the financing of political parties or the amount allocated from the Republic of Croatia's budget is the only measure in this law that needs to be amended hastily. I'd say I'd like two more measures to be incorporated into the Political Party Financing Act. One is a measure that would oblige all political parties to publicly announce who credits them. Therefore, to make it publicly available who are believers of political parties and so that the Law on political or political party financing also introduces a measure that will only limit the lending of political parties to credit institutions. So, I think it is totally unacceptable for companies to lend political parties in the way we witnessed it only a few months ago. However, I can't propose to be included in this law because it is an emergency procedure. In fact, it's more than an emergency procedure because we put this law in the process this morning, because the opposition held the quorum we voted on two constituency working bodies, and we're voting on it tonight. And it will not teach a whole series of other measures needed to regulate the political party financing system in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I don't think we can absolutely support this law like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u556	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u557	The applicable law, which is in, has been passed under the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and has been very strict. During our term of office, he's fixed something, but he's still pretty strict. And it really is necessary to pass a new law, and it would not be bad for the Croatian Parliament to commit to the government by voting her confidence to make a whole new law within a year. The fact is that we kept a quorum on the Constitutional Committee and the Legislative Committee so that it would not be understood that we were in some way obstructing the adoption of this law because it is among these seven laws that are at least bad in the process. The others really should go through one important, important ironing. And of course, I'll repeat the political parties are in the article I think 6. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that, not individuals dealing with politics but just political parties as the basis of a multi-party political system, should certainly be well-transparently arranged for their funding so that they do not bring themselves into a situation to answer for something or not to explain something, and also that citizens do not think that there is now something untransparent and that I quote one respected former member of a party under table 2/3 or a third serve to win the elections. Therefore, it certainly is necessary to pass a whole new law and install into it some of what you have said and I hope that the future government will also work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u558	Thank you, counsel. The next person to report for the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u559	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bauk, you were in your first part of the speech to kill more talked about the agenda itself where you said that only this law was signed, i.e. The proposal together with the Most Club and the HDZ Club. But here's a much more important thing, you could have signed that 57 million kuna for political parties from the budget is less than 51 million kuna. So six million kuna is savings. This is evident and it is very important and you should therefore mean that you might agree on this proposal and perhaps help with your proposals, and you have the possibility of amendments as well. Of course, as you said from public funds, funding political parties should be public, transparent and of course, but of course it should be both public and allowed to check. But I don't know if maybe the SDP has donors. So there's a possibility and a donation. As far as I know, the SDP has also had donations and it can be seen until in this case MOST had donors, and you can also see it in special parliamentary elections. So everything can be public and transparent according to these means. The most important thing now is to keep the political parties in the budget of 6 million kunas higher. Whoever signed it or didn't sign it is less important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u560	I thank Representative Buljo. Dear Representative Bauk has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u561	Well, look, about how much it stands out for political parties, I mean at the state level, because something sets out, and local self-government can be decided in the budget itself. You don't need to write this in law at all. Therefore, the political will of the Croatian Parliament, the parliamentary majority can be expressed in the adoption of the budget itself. Of course, there's always a danger that in a populism rush it doesn't reduce too much, so maybe it's better to write in the law. So that's always the amount somewhere between 50 and 60 million kuna. So there are 151 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It's calculated how much it's per agent. For the sub-represented sex 10%, although I think it would be better if it were 50%, it's the same thing. And in the end, I've been preparing to argue and pulled some decisions from previous years. So in 2009, it was 60484 kuna, 60 million 484 thousand 259 kuna. In 2012, on the basis of temporary funding for one quarter of 14 and 750. So it was for 2011 and it's stuck around here somewhere. So, we already said in 2015 that it should be tied to budget revenues and that it should be limited to 50 million kuna. So it's all in some kind of normal frame. It is important not to get the impression, which is trying to get the impression that political parties should not be financed at all from the budget because only then would they be dependent on certain donors. After all, the new HDZ president and prime minister when he arrived, then sought first an explanation of why some donors were and wanted to resolve it. Therefore, you can see that it can be quite awkward when certain companies that donate to the parties themselves and their political decisions are eventually listed again in the donor list.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u562	Thank you, Agent Bauku. The next person to report for the replica is the esteemed representative of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u563	Dear President, thank you. Well, I'd just like to refer to Mr. Bauk's statement that the parties need to be financed from the budget. We agree with that, but given the situation, I think it's clear to everyone and he himself said it's a good suggestion to bond with budget revenues. And yet the SDP advocates' club will vote, i.e. be abstentioned on this proposal. As far as exposure to corruption is concerned, no one can guarantee that, with all the funding from the budget so far, the political parties have not been exposed to corruption because they were receiving donations. We all know that never enough money to iron characters and acts of great leaders. We all know how much an engagement costs, for example, Mr. Brown, and it definitely can't be financed just from the budget. In addition, it was an observation of transparency. We all know that the SDP did not want to discover which credit institution it was in debt and thus showed how much they hold to transparency. I think this is a good proposal, meaning the Most Independent Lists, which reduces the isolation of political parties, and still political parties have quite enough money to finance their political promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u564	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u565	So, as far as the proposal is concerned, this proposal also requires budget rebalancing. So, according to this proposal, it will need to increase the political party's position for I think about 6 million kunas. So it also requires budget rebalancing, which is why we are restrained. And as for this transparency, you have formed a parliamentary majority or you will form it or form it with HDZ. But we remember not only the happy days so that Gaby Novak would say in her song and there was no HDZ during this spring who did not ask who was anointed by Grizzly's paws. Therefore, when you mention Brown and when you mention something that is publicly visible, it would be good to remember what the partners at the time told you but about yours, about some of your donors or business partners. So we don't go back too far, you deal with them. But here's when you mention it, it's not bad to remind you of it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u566	Thank you, Agent Bauku. Since there are no further replicas to the presentation of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, we move to the next club of representatives, the club of national minorities. In their name he will be represented by Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u567	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. As easily as the proposal to reduce funds to politicians and political parties in public eyes can be presented as a step forward, it is for some of us two steps back. It's about funds for political work, I stress for work. These are the funds that parties and MPs use to be able to perform their regular political functions and other obligations. My way of working in the last six years has been such that I've spent it here in the Assembly with my electoral body. If you consider that we are independent representatives of national minorities, we have an electoral body in the whole state of this bill, or this law will limit us greatly in our activities. Some journalists last year wrote Kajtazi cruises to Croatia. And they were right, they noticed. Instead of vacations and summer cruises, I solved the problem of national minorities from local to national level. That's... recognizes my electoral body, or citizens. [[You don't understand.]] And of course it's worth it. Work and creation cost especially because the 60 Roma settlements we have are spread from Slavonia to Istria, and the same is true for other national minorities that I represent, which are inhabited from Dubrovnik to Vukovar. However, what costs more is that the work is not done. What costs more is that the problems remain unresolved. It may sound good to some to reduce something but how to tell people I represent that I can't come and that we can't have a meeting. How to deafen to their pleas, how to sit in place while your community needs you? I wish we were more focused on realisation and eligibility of costs than on their limitations, i.e. I wish that the proposings also took into account the position of independent representatives of national minorities when writing this proposal. If you look at my report on the Internet, it'll be clearer to you what number of activities you're dealing with. If you look at the opinion of the State Audit, you will also see that these funds are reasonably invested for work. On behalf of others, I can't speak. If someone has misused the means to work, it needs to be sanctioned. I believe there have been such, but I don't think there should be any punishment for the work of others. This bill does not recognise the problem of independent representatives who do not have other sources of funding and this law does not take into account the fact that we are not all in the same initial position. Work should be encouraged, not limited. I, or the minorities I represent, will be the most affected by this law and will be further restricted in the maintenance and support of, for example, cultural manifestations, i.e. the overall impact on the scope and quality of my work. Nevertheless, this is better than the situation we have witnessed in the last few months when our work has been almost impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u568	I would like to thank Agent Katazia. The First Replicate came forward by Representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u569	I will present my personal position to Mr. President and colleague Kajtazi, which is likely to differ from the attitude of many, which is that I believe that the right to finance from the budget should only have political parties and not independent representatives and independent doctors. But it was introduced in 2004 to strengthen the support of the majority in the Croatian Parliament in that way. And now we have a paradoxical case where an independent list in the City Council is elected with 12 council members then the law does not treat them as one list of 12 councilmen but 12 individuals dealing with politics. And each of those 12 opens their own account and works independently of each other, which is not the intensity of this law. Therefore, for individuals who deal with politics as independent representatives, in my opinion they should not be placed in the same basket with political parties that have their own legal obligations, which have their own constitutional obligations, have control of the State's audit not only in terms of spending the funds but also in respect of these statutes, and it is quite different, therefore, from the functioning of individuals who deal with policies from which national minorities can be excluded because in this case, Mr. Radin, who, after years of experience, falls into my word again... Therefore, representatives of national minorities as independent representatives elected in a special constituency can be separated from independent representatives in the city councils. [[You don't understand.]] So you don't have to react from the scene in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u570	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u571	Dear colleague Arsen, I fully agree with you, and all the time in these six years, I have sought to see right now the position of national minorities, especially the parliamentary representative representing 12 national minorities. It is very difficult to go around and do exactly what the national minorities on the ground are looking for because these funds are insufficient. I personally think that any parliamentary representative representing 12 national minorities will not be able to fulfil their obligations to the electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u572	I would like to thank Agent Keatazi for his reply to the replica. The next one came from a spokesman, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u573	Thank you, Mr. President. You have said by this law that, in some sense, a special calculation of the percentage, not by means of separation for the activities of political parties, is limited to the possible activities of representatives of political parties and political parties as such and independent representatives. That's true. And it's a shame it is. And we're going to have to figure out here whether we're going to go along a line of moralization of political or effective institutions in the state. If we are going to go along a line of morality and violations of state institutions and democratic institutions such as parties, because they are parties to the institutions of democracy, then we are working against our own institutions and against the institutions of democracy. At times, people may like political morality, but in the long run it is harmful for institutional democracy and for state institutions as well. So we think we should think about increasing that percentage from 0.075 to 0.080. And there's one more thing I want to say, we're all for saving but here in this place is saving by principle holding a thief and thieves are somewhere else. Why don't those who steal save? Why don't those who don't pay taxes in time save? Why don't those who don't pay the workers in good time? Why don't we set it up? It is the purpose of politics and political states to raise our voice against it, not to cut our own chair or branch on which we sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u574	Thank you, Agent Pupovac. The next person to answer the line is MP Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u575	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I would just remind Mr. Keatazi that he has also learned that his reports can and can be corrected since he received an unfavourable view of spending, I am glad that he has made progress in this time and that we can also see that someone can fix it. The only thing he hasn't fixed is that he is not only a representative of the Roma national minority but also of other national minorities. I've seen Mr. Keatazi in my community a long time ago, and I definitely think that the excuse that these funds are not enough for a national minority representative to appear somewhere, if there were no travel expenses, I'd say a simplified version of the answer to the proposal made by the promoter. Therefore, I also call on you to keep an eye on the spending of your resources not only that what you have improved is being spent legally but also that the tour, I agree, must be a key right that representatives of national minorities who vote for you, and that the support you provide from these funds for certain activities by your work, you need to seek out in the framework of the competent state bodies of the ministries, and thus allow their activities that need to be financed to agree on both cultural and ethnic and which they all have, religiously, they should also be found in the budgets of other ministries so that they free up funds so that you can visit the national minorities you represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u576	I thank Representative Panenic. Answer to the line, Agent Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u577	Dear colleague, it's true that I wasn't in your community, but I wasn't for one simple reason, among other things, what you mentioned yourself, and the other is the reason for the census in your community I don't have a Roma at all. At that moment, it is my priority to visit the settlements where there are the most members of the Roma national minority. And otherwise, as far as the other 11 national minorities I represent are concerned, I don't think you're familiar enough, and I'm instructing you to enter my website and look at how much I've done and how much I've visited and how many other 11 national minorities I represent and what I've done. And as for the first part, as far as I'm concerned about the repair and spending of my resources, I'm not talking about it. That's what the review has shown and found that I'm doing it perfectly, or my accountant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u578	I would like to thank Agent Keatazi for his reply to the replica. The next one of the repatriators is Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u579	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You were talking about national minorities of course from Dubrovnik to Vukovar, but of course when we look at the amount of funds it's 30 thousand kuna per month, so it's not a small amount, it's a huge amount where you can visit all these areas. However, I also come from undeveloped areas where there is no Roma national minority but there are other national minorities where I am more days and hours as a parliamentary representative than representatives of national minorities. These people are hard to live on, mainly those people of Serbian nationality, extremely honest, extremely hard to live on as the majority people, and their representatives except in part that I hear some proposals in the House that end up either in the end, but the people of the national minorities have a hard time living, and we MPs who represent not only the national minorities and we do this job on the ground, believe me. And I'm sorry that the representatives of the national minorities don't do the job right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u580	Answer to the line, Agent Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u581	Dear counterpart Bulj, the means that an independent representative has, in particular, also mentions, a representative representing 12 national minorities is very difficult when in that part you have a national minority to represent in all segments, while you do not have people around you who might be able to help you, which is why you need funds and insufficient funds. Because covering all the areas that a national minority such as the Roma national minority has is impossible because there are insufficient resources, and we are not talking about these 11 other national minorities that you also mention that in that part they may not have but have in that second segment many other activities that you have to do at all. So you see these 30,000 kunas you mention immediately in three months that they are inaccessible because you have no space, you have no people with whom you could completely lead and you cannot monitor the entire work of the Parliament. I'd love to once when you get a chance to come to me and see what it's like to just work for an independent representative representing 12 national minorities. And I'm also inviting you and me to go out to the field and see how nice that looks. When you get a car once a month officially, then think about what now you don't know where you might go, so you're trying to influence the secretary of state in every way you can so you can get a vehicle at least multiple times because you can't use your vehicle. You can leave in the morning and come back in the middle of the night then you don't know if you need to be a driver, are you afraid of getting hurt on the road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u582	Thank you, Agent Katazia. The last person to report for the replica is respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u583	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand the difficulties of independent representatives in functioning and you say because of the reduction in funds that they will have restrictive activities. But this doesn't coincide with Mr. Bauk's claim that there are no additional funds provided because this increases the allocations for the parliamentary deputies. It means someone's cheating on the public but not you. You well claim to be shrinking. But then it doesn't stand for Mr. Bauk's claim that by a few million heisting and that additional funds in the budget should be provided. But both political and economic is the only reason to bind the singles to revenue and not to expenditure. Nor can they be justified for expenditures, for that is when separations are tied to both deficits and borrowings. So the bigger the deficit we do, the more damage we do to the state, the more we make it stand out for the MPs. Great. Well, I don't think that makes any sense. That's why I think this is a great change that happens in Croatian political life, and I'm heartily supporting it because it binds to the revenues of the state budget. But I also allow it, of course, to be discussed whether the coefficient is sufficient, low and whether it reduces, how much it affects individuals, independent representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u584	I thank the honourable representative Goran Maric. The next of the clubs of MPs who called for a word in the debate is the Club of Representatives HNS HSU. In their name, respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u585	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's already come out of the debate that no one has any objection to the fact that separations are based on revenue and not on expenditures. The question is, how many are these separations? So it could be 0.075 percent, it could be 0.080 percent, it could be different amounts. So I also think that the difference in funding will be between six and seven million kunas, so in isolation. It's negligible savings, of course for the state budget when you look at items and assets that are spent on different other things. For the financing of political parties and independent MPs is a reduction that they will feel but in my opinion it would not be, it would not be worth having such a debate. What makes us at the HNS and HSU club seem the most controversial spirit of the law here. So what the law says, what the law symbolizes, the spirit of the law as one of the fathers of the modern state of Montesquie would say is a message and the message is that in one general populist atmosphere that prevailed in ours, unfortunately not only our policy says that the only instrument or at least the main instrument that the citizens of a state have to participate in a political process and these are political parties is some suspicious work. If that's something we have to take now, come on, but the defect would be, it's a waste of money, and it's best to reduce it first and phase out. Funding political parties as the main instrument for citizens' participation in politics is not what we invented. It's the result of centuries of experience. In the 18th century in the British Parliament, therefore the oldest in the world there was a cash register where interested parties paid the money to MPs to vote the way they wanted it to. And it took several centuries to understand that people and institutions such as political parties and advocates who decide, that funding that is transparent, which is from the budget, which can be controlled and which is clear to all, is one of the main ways of eliminating a large area of corruption. I'll remind you that we had a situation where the deadline for paying state-owned companies was over 300 days. Corruption went crazy in that area. Because if you have to wait a year for someone to pay you, then people have given certain percentages to those who decide whether you're going to be first or you're going to be 331. When that payment deadline fell to 60 days, the area of corruption in the area disappeared and it is the best fight against corruption. Better than punishment, better than threats, better than repression, although of course it is one of the instruments and it is necessary but much better prevention. And the best prevention is to eliminate the space where this corruption can happen. And what upsets people in this bill is one message that is present in Croatian society, and let's say a procedural thing that has not been done with this law because it went as it would have been under the Law on the right to access information to go to public debate for at least 30 days. However, in this public debate, it is very likely that the general atmosphere would be no more than to abolish all funding to political parties because it is a message to be sent. They're useless, unnecessary institutions. If political parties, as I have said, are the historical and constitutional fundamental instruments for the participation of citizens in politics, remain the leader and his people, which is the definition of dictatorship. And whatever they are, creamy, likable, unsympathic, such political parties are de facto the only instrument through which citizens are able to take too much of an influence to participate in the political process and political decision-making. Therefore, the HNS and HSU club opposes this treatment and this approach to political parties, this sending a message with a law that is before us, that these are de facto unnecessary institutions, that this is something that needs to be phased out of funding. As I said in the numbers themselves, savings are negligible at the level of the state budget. But in the spirit of the law in intensity, it's very dangerous. For this reason, the HNS and HSU will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u586	Thank you very much. Your discussion has caused more replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u587	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Pusic, you said this was about negligible funds. If it were 6 million kunas, you know how much does this mean in the Dalmatian Zagora, the village of Podsvilaj, the village of Velovo 7.8 kilometers away from the Croats, the last point where we have water supply? These kids, these people don't have water supply. Imagine how many children, so now we have an example here of little Lucia in Sinj, i.e. in Trill, which has no roof over his head, which has no windows, which has nothing basic to life what other children have no socks. Imagine how much it means to people like that that statement of yours? Corruption, you're saying 300 billion so far, the party's payment system, the party financing didn't cause 300 billion kunas of debt, 300 thousand completed and blocked? And in this situation now we find 300 thousand unemployed? It will be that the more we gave to political parties, the more the effect it had on the contrary. Well, this is a little more honest. So on the basis of the incomes to pay the parties, not the expenditure. Well, then I don't see any reason for you to be restrained or against it. I absolutely don't see any reason. At least in this case, it is as correct and fair as counterpart Maric pointed out earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u588	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u589	Thank you very much. So it's not about individuals or individual units of local self-government for each 6 million individuals, for each person there's a lot of money. It's about the state budget. So here we are talking about saving for the state budget. In relation to the state budget, this savings is negligible, compared to an individual person or an individual unit of local self-government, of course it is very large money. But that's not what we're talking about, it won't get any local self-government units. No girl who goes to school without socks. It will remain in the state budget, as God knows. As far as income is concerned, no one is against this decision. The question is only in the amount, so it could be 0.075 or 0.080 like I said. No one disputed that it was more logical for it to be based on income rather than expenditure. The only question is whether the intensity of this law is that the only instrument of participation of citizens in the political process is gradually being delegated.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u590	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u591	Dear Vice President, my dear colleague Wesna, I am very surprised by your explanation of how budget money is spent. I may be a demagogue, but as a businessman, I'm from one point to how many of our people have salaries from least to highest? So you'll see that the average of any dealer or any employee in the system is about three, four thousand kuna. If one MP gets 30 grand a month it's not a lot of money for me, too much. I know the parties need to live but we need to know that the budget of the state is filled with citizens. We have to go from that point of view to how citizens live, how much we as politicians, even though I don't consider myself a politician, we're spending some kind of money that you say, so we don't know how or where the budget is going to be spent. It should take great care of how budget money is spent, where it goes and these 6 million kunas that will be reduced be given to God that 15 we have kitchen, we have citizens who have nothing to eat. You know how much we could help them with a little, a little more money? And we simply, in fact, you who have been involved in politics these 25 years have never asked yourself, and you have not come into a situation to see how certain citizens live. That's what you're declaring and you know, but you've never done anything to cut costs, unnecessary policy costs, political systems to get our citizens to a green branch once. For centuries, you've said it's been detached from the policy budget. Yes, but we have suffered here for centuries as citizens. And we've just never had any luck with politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u592	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, as far as I'm concerned, I've been referring to political experience for centuries. The state-of-the-art institution and something people need to know about so that they can participate in state-leading. Not everything that exists as knowledge in the accumulated experience of political theory can be completely ignored. So these six million you can now make some kind of populist comments, but that's compared to 120 billion how much the state budget is. It's compared to those funds. And that means the main way to normalize it is let's say economic growth. And if someone did something for economic growth then the hand on the heart is really us. If someone from the negative turned economic growth into positive, it's us. But I'm not saying it's that it couldn't have been stronger and better and it shouldn't have been stronger and better. You should. But here I warn you of the erosion of an important institute. It's not supposed to be brought down to really this basic populism, it really shouldn't be. The question is whether we want to keep our institutions and work through them. I think that the institutions of the state are important that without them we cannot function as well as the institutions through which citizens participate. You'll vote on this. None of this will happen to any of you. But the intensity, so the spirit of the law is not good, it's going in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u594	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u595	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I would like to say to Mrs Pusic the first thing that you were one of the fierce advocates of Croatia's entry into the EU, and we all know that the European Commission's economic policy is a restrictive economic policy that advocates austerity measures. Is the political elite the first one to be able to implement austerity measures or do you say no? As a political elite, we don't have to save, and the people need to be saved. My question is, is that moral of you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u596	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u597	Thank you very much, although I'm not sure I should, but here it is. So this whole savings thing isn't going to reflect anyone in particular. As for economic policy, Croatia has led and runs its economic policy, discussions on different models in Europe are much broader than what some Commissioners in the Commission have advocated at one point and what we have advocated on the other hand. So, that would be something we don't want to go into if we don't have a serious debate about it because it deserves a serious debate. But as far as this is concerned, it's no saving on the political elites. The political elite as far as the person is concerned won't feel it. The budget won't feel it either. But the intensity is what I'm talking about here - the intention, the direction in which it goes is what I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u598	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u599	Thank you. Dear Representative Pusic, you said no one would feel this. I see a great dissatisfaction and the need to do something, to try to show that dissatisfaction by losing six million kunas. I don't think it's going to affect political parties' actions. It is true that this is one message, a message that the money spent by political parties is tied to budget revenues, not expenditure. And I also don't see what would increase the scope of the corruption you're talking about, because we've had a situation that political parties have so far been heavily funded from the budget. We have a small million examples of political corruption in Croatia and what bothers our citizens most is just political corruption. We have witnessed political corruption in all governments so far, and in the governments in which you participated. The parties were financed from the budget, so we had examples of corruption, for example in the Ministry of Agriculture, where incentives were given to large, rather than small OPGs. We now have the latest wind power plant case where the state is damaged and ultimately citizens. We see that this funding from the state budget of political parties has not led to a reduction in corruption. Corruption can be fought in other ways. We're not in favour of removing funds from political parties. We believe that the parties are necessary, but these six million kunas will not affect whether any of your colleagues will be corrupt or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u600	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u601	To influence. So no, this is not one experience that can only be linked to Croatia and only from today, affects. There is a historic, large historical experience of parliamentary democracies, which is why the institute was invented. So it does. Whether it eliminates, does not eliminate, whether it needs other means of fighting corruption, of course it should. There are many situations where people have their electoral promotion from the ministry's budget. That's what needs to be contained. But this is one way, transparency of party financing is one way, it's not the only way. Like I said, it's here. As for the sum, it will neither help nor help anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u602	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u603	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues are just astounding to listen to all the excuses found by long-standing deputies to justify the far-fetched funds they receive from the budget for party work. This mentions economic reasons, political reasons, mathematical calculations, and nobody mentions a moral dimension. 90% of Croatian citizens oppose the privileges of politicians and political parties who literally bathe in money and earn money on the coat of arms of the people who work hard and bloody to survive. It is now mentioned even that there will be parties when they receive money from the budget that there will be less corruption. The thing is simply the opposite, it is precisely the reduction of money for the parties regardless of the amount it is concerned about that society's recovery at all levels and at the level of corruption. It is precisely a reduction in the money that the parties receive that all the arrests are removed from politics, all those who want to live from politics are comfortable and comfortable, and not the opposite that some honest people who have never been so far will come into politics. What parties have run this country for the last 25 years, they don't deserve not 0.075% of the budget but don't deserve 0.001%. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u604	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u605	Mr. Collar, as to the degradation of the policy that you're now involved in here, it's a very dangerous matter. Because it also opens up space for different dictatorial tendencies and direct communication between the leader and his people. As far as busting is concerned, I am a regular professor at the University of Zagreb, and I have done many different jobs in my life both in country and abroad at different academic institutions. And as far as infatuation is concerned, this is certainly less than what I could make than doing that job. But I thought that especially my generation must contribute to the construction of this country's institutions according to its beliefs. And that's why instead of being comfortable living on my profession, I got involved in this. And I recommend that you do as I see you have begun your political engagement and coming to the Parliament, but this degradation of people who are involved in politics serves you in shame, not honor. You should raise that status, you should contribute to the status and respect of people who deal with politics because otherwise you will want to deal only with the worst, only those who can't get a job anywhere else, we will let them lead the state and then the whole state and all its citizens will have consequences. Because if we let the country lead the worst among us, then that's what everybody gets. Therefore, I think this profession should be held and this engagement should be kept at a level that would motivate the best to engage in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u606	Thank you. And the last replica is that of the distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u607	Thank you very much. My colleague Pusic agrees with your definition of dictatorship, leaders and people of direct communication, and we know that because you and I have lived more dictatorship than democracy, unfortunately for years. I also agree with you that political parties are extremely important, if not most important in the political life and democratic life of a society and that the influence of citizens through these political parties is no matter how insignificant but the only way is natural... I would like because of the influence of these citizens to know what citizens think about how political parties are financed. [[You don't understand.]] I think there is a big problem here with the financing of the Croatian Parliament and that this problem of political party financing comes from that too. The only state institution not financed in a natural, logical, rational and economically acceptable and politically acceptable way is the Croatian Parliament. It is not financed from the state budget. It's the only institution where whoever comes to work doesn't have a job, no space, no computer. There is only one color printer in the entire Croatian Parliament. Half the MPs have nowhere to put them. And of course that's what's causing a lot of problems. We have not given rise to the Croatian Assembly and we have to return and increase that we have normal working conditions, let alone talk about mobile, parking or something else that is secured in every state institution and for every employee, and not for a representative. But I think that Croatian citizens would certainly not accept that the allocations relate to the expenditures of the state budget but to the revenues. And so if we want to protect the voice of the citizens, then let's vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u608	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u609	Comrade Maric, what can I say? I agree with what you said. So the idea absolutely of spending and income is resolved, I don't think anyone has any doubt about it. And what you said about the Croatian Parliament I particularly agree with it because I think the degradation of the Croatian Parliament is a far-reaching terrible thing. So keeping that institution is practically equal to guarding democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u610	Thank you very much. We will now move to the next club of representatives, and that is the HDZ in whose name the distinguished representative Tomislav Ćoric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u611	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Given the fact that this debate has gone awry and actually started in different directions, I will briefly introduce you to the position of the HDZ Representatives Club. Therefore, it has been confirmed here several times today that the key intensities of this proposal are to amend the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions primarily to transfer political parties from the expenditure side of the budget to the revenue side of the budget, i.e. to tax revenues. The HDZ advocates' club believes that this is absolutely logical because there is no reason why political party financing is not related to the country's economic situation. According to the 2015 figures, the expenditure side of the budget was somewhere according to these indicators, i.e. compared to these indicators, the revenues of political parties should be €57.75 million, on the other hand, amending the laws and binding the revenues of political parties with tax revenues would bear €51 million. However, it should be kept in mind immediately that this year's budget revenues will be slightly higher than the 2016 plan, and in this context, it can be expected that the amount of political parties will be around 52.5 million kuna. What should be kept in mind is that in the next four years GDP growth will equalise this amount. So connecting political parties' incomes with tax revenues to the Republic of Croatia is something completely logical and from that perspective, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this proposal. To look at just the very end at the moment of the intensification which Commissioner Pusic stated here, so the urgency is that we correct one indifference into one logical solution, and if you agree with one such correction, I do not see why both the club of representatives of HNS and other clubs do not support such a solution. If you are talking about corruption or a problem of corruption that can erupt with such a solution, then we are not talking about good faith. So here we are starting with good faith, first of all, that the financing of political parties or that the work of political parties will be based on transparent funding, someone said at one point in the debate, this is also a transparent mode of financing, as was the previous basis of the state budget expenditure, so in this context I do not see the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u612	Thank you very much. Very brief and your debate has sparked several replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u613	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Minister, I highly appreciate the shortness with which you have defended the bill, as well as your arguments that we support. What we can't understand and what we don't think is a good argument that I hear from some colleagues. People have nothing to eat, so they will if they cut by political party revenues. And why don't they have anything to eat? Who put them in this situation? This is also produced by who produces this type of inequality and poverty in the country and who is the main generator of this production of non-poverty and inequality in society? Political parties with their inaction, probably. New tycoons and new rich people and social wealth redistribution actors? Yeah. Why don't we start taking their colleagues from MOST? To those who have become so rich over the past 25 years and gained so much power. Why don't we ask ourselves that question, and why don't we ask ourselves a question, what do we do to make it change? If we went across the square to the Parliament we could see Caritas' truck sharing fruit and potatoes, did it fight poverty? It's charity, but not the fight against poverty. The fight of poverty is being fought here. If she doesn't run here, she'll be on the street, and that won't stop these changes to the law. Therefore, political morality that does not have this fact is a political amoral and cannot be covered by this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u614	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Tomislav Ćoric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u615	Dear Representative Pupovac, I'd say your exposure to a large part actually referred to the priors of mine. My intensity was not necessarily moralized at any time because I think that in the context of everything that has been said so far would be completely missed, so to specify a variety of details and situations that are not actually at the level of today's debate and the debate on this law from my perspective makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u616	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've made it very clear that this is logical and normal to account for what has been achieved by the political parties. I think that would be an incentive for their work, i.e. the work of their officials who would need economic activity to run in this direction in order to make as many of these tax revenues happen in the Republic of Croatia, thus increasing their revenues to the parties. I think that hysteria in this regard is absolutely inappropriate and there is no point in calling it political corruption so some parties are in court, some parties are also punished for failing to report their work in the election time. Not for one year, but two years in a row. These same parties are today calling for some who are still in the process and are not being punished by law. So I don't think they have the right to call or talk about it because they ignored it, because then the great leader said we're going to change the law and everything else in order to have the income we need. In doing so, I think this is a good emergency to amend the law, and it will encourage those party's behavioural behavioural behaviours to stimulate economic activity, and then tax revenues will also be stimulated and everyone will ultimately be well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u618	Thank you very much. The following came to the line, the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u619	Thank you, Mr. President. We are probably all agreed that the parties should be financed from the income rather than the expenditure party, and I don't think that should be a problem. However, this whole debate goes more in one populist and in fact the key problem passes, and this is financing and work of the Croatian Parliament. All simply good countries, well-being countries are well-being among other things because they have arranged work of their parliaments and there MPs have in which country of several advisors at their disposal who help them in their work because they help to make these laws and the effectiveness of the Parliament far better than it is. Look how this is what my colleague Maric said not to repeat it, look at the situation with us. How many professional people we have besides the advisors of individual committees who are actually more concerned with these administrative affairs and have less time and capacity to stand at our disposal is simply the consequence that our efficiency is simply minimal. Or much smaller than what we all expect and what everyone wants it to be. Therefore, if we want an effective Assembly price of this, the cost of it would be far greater than we are able to admit. And these stories about some kind of attorney's privilege or the salaries of the MPs. So listen to the pay of MPs is nothing higher than the salary of a regular professor and regular professors in Croatia probably have 5.6 times more than there are representatives. So let's bring it down to some real frameworks and start talking about the functioning of the Croatian Parliament and how to make it effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u620	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u621	Dear Mr. Coric when he mentioned HDZ and the fight against corruption in one sentence, I simply felt that he was trying to create an illusion that they were fighting corruption but it is clear that they are the biggest generator of corruption. And in the end, you too, Mr. Reiner, have, in your time, said that every day we witness examples of corruption from the HDZ's ranks. And I don't think that these amendments to the law will reduce corruption in your party, but the court has brought down a formal legal verdict against you as a criminal organization, and I find that regrettable. And you're actually controlling all levels of government and all we have left is to point to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u622	My colleague Pernar, for one thing, you told a lie, I'm literally going to tell a lie, I never said that, about corruption in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u623	Yes, sir, on the Croatian Radio, we have it. We can do it on youtube.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u624	Please, please sit down and don't answer me. So you've told a lie again. I've never used that word in this assembly, and now I've used it twice, and if I have to, I'll say it one more time. So you lied here in the assembly in front of the Croatian public. The other thing is... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I give you my first warning. Secondly, you spoke beyond the subject, so I draw your attention to the collapse of Parliament's dignity here. Such discussions thus bring down the Parliament's dignity. Not with this 0.75 or 0.80 or anything but with this kind of discussion and in this way by talking to each other in front of the public, we bring down our own dignity, we tear it down in front of those who chose us, and I ask you not to do it. Not for you, for all of us and for Croatian citizens. Next up on behalf of the SDSS club, and excuse me. Replication response, please. Dear Representative Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u625	I'll try to be very brief. Comrade Pernar, you have still managed to get into the central journal today and I believe it was the only intensity of your previous presentations. I repeat once again the position of the HDZ Representatives Club on the fact that this change of law as such is entirely justified and logical. And we're asking the other club representatives to back her up. As far as this part of corruption is concerned, more than 50 HDZ deputies sit here, they are honorable people, and as the one who exhibits this item of the agenda in the Croatian Parliament, I can only tell you on your remarks that you can be ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u626	Following on behalf of SDSS's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Boris Milosevic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u627	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, the public funding of the parties through the budget is a relatively new invention that actually came into use in the 50s of the last century and the German state of which we like to call is introduced by the 59st, so at the end of the 50s. In a number of Western countries, budget financing for political life has actually become dominant as a kind of defence against corruption and private interests in political structures. Private donations are everywhere, so I believe in Croatia, a desirable source of funding provided it is smaller amounts and that it is regulated by law, that this is visible with certain legal constraints in a transparent way. That's the way it is with us. So the financing of the parties to public budget money is important, because political parties are the basis of a stable democracy, and we actually appreciate democratic stability only when we lose it, when we feel it is threatened. In light of recent political instability, in fact, all political actors have said and expressed their desire for the government to be stable, that the government has political stability in order to implement the reforms that are necessary for our country. In this direction, the Council of Europe's 2001 recommendations, which says political parties should receive financial contributions from the state budget in order to prevent dependence on private donors and guarantee the equality of opportunities between political parties. The recommendation further says that state support should not hinder the level needed to achieve political objectives. Since excessive relying on state funding can lead to a deterioration of the links between parties and their voters. With us, the financing of political parties is governed by our Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion. The law was passed in 2011 under some pressure from the European Commission to seek very strict legal solutions. The law regulates the financing of electoral promotion, sets out sources of funding, donations, bans on financing and concessions, how to conduct controls and audits. The law is so strict that, for example, if we donated a European political party with 1000 euros, it would not be published anywhere. The European political party would not be obliged under any right to publicly publish a donor, for example, 1000 euros. If you donate a Croatian political party with one kuna in the report will come up with your name, name, oib and address, one single kuna. If a party is one day late, half a day, an hour, a minute, and if so determined by publication, it shall also be subject to administrative sanctions and infringements. It would remind the Council of the 2013 Council of Europe advisory body, the Group of States against the corruption of the Council of Europe, GRECO, which claimed that the Republic of Croatia has accepted all recommendations from that advisory body. Yet our law is not without fault and contains many shortcomings that are seen only in implementation. In particular, he would remind of the lack of funds allocated to regular annual funding that is linked to the moment of the Croatian Parliament's establishment. As we know, the moment of elections and the moment of constitution is not the same moment. And during this period, certain MPs from their party are moving to another party or fleeing from their party. The SDSS had the situation last election that was robbed for one term and unfortunately, the robbery was in this Croatian home, represented and legal because the funds belonged to an independent representative and thus violated the principle of law that says the right to regular annual funding belongs to political parties and independent MPs who were elected from independent lists. So the laws do not know the independent MPs who have been elected from the political party's ranks. This debate has also shown that this brief review of me actually needs to be amended in a way to find complete solutions for the shortcomings that have been shown in application. This bill here speaks only of one thing and that is to change the parameters for calculating regular annual funding. A similar solution is proposed in 2015. The difference is, in fact, only in percentage differences. The proposed solution actually wants to prevent the tendency that the law allows political parties to actually jump several million kunas each year and that is what comes from this proposal. The calculation shows that this formula proposed, which is linked to tax revenues, would actually reduce that party base by several million kunas. I think that this proposal can be supported, but when we make a whole proposal, we have to ask ourselves what we want. Because as we know, tax revenues can be variable. Tomorrow they can grow or fall depending on tax reforms or on the country's economic growth so that we don't change the formula for a short period of time again. In any case, I would like to say in the end that political parties should be financed from the budget. What is the light motive of the whole law and what is the meaning of the law that this party financing was from public funds or private donations to be transparent. It is also necessary to limit major jumps in the increase in the amount, so annually for several million kunas for political parties, and therefore this proposal is going in a good direction. Perhaps we should consider whether the percentage is affected, perhaps we should consider that fact and certainly for future development of the whole law should consider, therefore also based on the experience that we will have with this solution is the best solution. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u628	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, you support the law, you do not know if you would vote for it. All the time you've been saying it's good that, so the income side is now counting. However, I am more inspired by this now mentioning your Popovec's colleagues when he said the Most should fight the rich. But he forgot that MOST was created half a year ago, and that your colleague Pupovac and your SDSS party were in some governments and in power and when these empires were created and these tycoons who today really have over 80% of the capital in their hands. And personally, it's an insult, and I realized it because I personally filed criminal charges against war profiteers who have empires, against profiteers and tycoones who have also impoverished the area in Sinj because I lived and acted down there. So that such insults from someone to the Most, to the people who have appeared in politics are not good and it is not good for political life, and I personally hope that you as a party will come to solve the problems in the field of people, those with whom I live and who I fight to make our lives better. And proclaiming us that we fight when we also created these people is a shameful and sad statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u630	Thank you very much. We have a response from the esteemed representative Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u631	Dear fellow Representative Bulj, I know how I'm going to vote for the law and I think I've made myself clear. And as for the insult, I didn't realize when my colleague Pupovac pointed out that the insults were sent to either you or MOST. And if you've had for your anti-corruption activity, so for what you've stated, you can only be proud. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u632	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u633	Thank you. Here I would only refer to this presentation by Mr Milosevic, where he said this commitment to budget revenues can also lead to jumps. It wasn't an intensity, so it means to limit yourself and watch whether this leads to jumps or not. We will be most fortunate if we here as all MPs, MOST representatives, SDP representatives, HNS, HDZ contribute, of course, to the new government that budget revenues are as high as possible, and then the parties will have more money. That's the intensity of this proposal. So, not that politicians are doing their job badly, that they owe the state, and then because they have more money. As we had the case in all governments, as my colleague Miro Bulj said well in those governments was involved in the SDSS, so I don't know why Mr. Pupovac called MOST for tycoons, and he participated in the governments during which these things were happening. So in the days when the tycoons stood and formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u634	Thank you. The honourable representative Boris Milosevic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u635	Dear comrade Grmoy when I spoke, so the law and possible jumps related to this proposal. So I think this is a proposed solution right now and it's going in the right direction. What I was saying was about future solutions when changing the whole law that the experience should be taken into account, so this solution and a valid solution and in some way avoid traps, so possible jumps or crashes, any growth related to amounts related to political parties. As for the creation of tycoon and tycoonization, we all know that tycunisation is actually a product of the 1990s when members of the national minorities in particular did not participate, so in government and government, so that, I say, the crime cannot be attributed to one minority party.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u636	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milosevic, you said that this lex Raskovic, to call it the mutilated Croatian Parliament. There's nothing that's illegal about being legal. So the only thing that can change is the law, and that didn't happen. And it wasn't the Parliament who did it. It was the Constitution Committee. And he did it because they needed that hand, so that's why they did it. But the Constitutional Committee did not take a decision on the allocation of funds for political parties based on the composition of the last convocation of the Croatian Assembly for the third quarter, and without the vote of the SDSS it will not be able to do so. Because at this point, the seventh hand that the ruling majority has is the hand of the SDSS. Therefore, if that composition of the committee has been wrong, then this composition of the committee may correct that decision. We'll put our hands on it as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u638	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Boris Milosevic will respond, no, no, nothing. So then we'll take a break as usual and continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you very much. It's 13,15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u639	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.05 HOURS]] In the name of the Live Wall Club, their representative, MP Ivan Pernar asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u640	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a proposal to amend the Law on the financing of electoral promotion. All this time in Malta, not for the last two years, we've been listening continuously to how many parties are getting too much money and that these funds need to be reduced. As a representative of the Living Wall, I absolutely agree with this because during these five years of fighting and withdrawing by the delicacies and visiting families that have unplugged electricity and water I have seen literally everything and everything and I think there is definitely one privileged caste, that caste that lives well is us, and as long as we live well and very well we won't be aware of how other people live. Mr. Veljko Kajtazi he probably knows how people live because in constant contact with members of his national minority, but I am deeply convinced that there are people here in these large parties who are little to say out of touch with the average citizens. And if they saw what kind of situation they were in, how we have rows in front of the soup kitchen, people digging through containers and collecting bottles, and not counting further, they realized that the funds that were being allocated to political parties were too large. So for my term, you get not only me paid as a representative, but my party gets, say, 360 thousand kuna a year and now try to imagine how many big parties they have, say, 40 MPs get money. In my opinion, these funds are too large and these resources should at least be halved. What's this about? When I proposed to amend the law, the issue was constantly raised by the proposings means by the HDZ and the MOST that it is logical to determine these funds related to budgetary revenues rather than expenditure. It means that a percentage is allocated from budget revenues, rather than from budgetary expenditures. That's because we have a budget deficit, expenditure is higher than income. However, the average citizen does not care whether we stand out in a certain percentage of income or expenditure, but how much these funds are in total. Namely, what happened? Before that, it was 0.05% of the expenditure, and now it's going to be 0.075%. means, although these funds are now related to income rather than to the expenditure side of the budget, they are essentially increasing by 50%, from 0.05% of the expenditure to 0.075% of the revenue. So one image of reality is being created about some kind of rationalization that doesn't actually exist. And we've already had opportunities from MOST to see on that example with the reform of the administration where the number of people they call "inferences" actually is more, not less. And also the SDP raised the question that these funds should be so because if the parties are financed from the budget, or their activities that under these and such circumstances will be theirs, the process itself will be transparent. But what's happening in reality? In reality, there are certain individuals who belong to certain parties who abuse their powers as follows. So, for example, to me she arrived in, meaning by mail to the address, means the application of the criminal against the minister of the economy of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Tomislav Panenic. What's this about? It also states that it has committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority, Article 229(1) and (2). In what way? That during the period from 1 August to 9 September, 9 September was the last day when an election campaign could be held, agreed, or agreed with various advertisers to broadcast emissions of propaganda nature in the function of party propaganda and pre-election activities of the political party MOST and this is broadcasting means paid from the Ministry of Economy budget, it is half a million kuna. And the essence of those messages that were is that it was MOST, so that option that should be voted on. So it was in that function. It says this, meaning that these costs were not directly related to the activities and activities of the Ministry of Economy nor were they incurred in its interest but were costs that were of exclusive benefit to the pre-election campaign of the political party of the Independent Lists. In this way, the Minister of Economy, as a state official and official, took advantage of his position and authority and political party at the expense of the Ministry of Economy and provided us with 400 thousand kuna benefit from taxpayers. Now, where's the point of the whole story? It is evident from the time of the broadcast, so the time of the broadcast was an election silence, so it means a month earlier that these propaganda messages were in service, or related to the elections. However, I am sure that these costs, along with their expenditures, of the electoral Most, did not qualify as a violation of the Law on the financing of election promotion. But what is it? The MOST has seized all possible authorities, meaning legislative, has the President of the Parliament, the judiciary means it has the minister of justice, has even the minister of police and has, and even heads the ministry of administration. So he privatized all three levels of government. And I don't expect the DORH to initiate proceedings against Mr Panenic because it's clear, so this is about protection or I expect the DIP to ask him, well, Mr Panenic if perhaps, what was the point of broadcasting those promotional messages. What I finally want to say in my presentation is this. Our country is in a difficult economic crisis and parliamentary parties do not bear the burden of this crisis and constantly impose that story from the European Union, this is the need for savings and rationalisation, the taxes are increasing, we have had opportunities to see how VAT has grown and state property is privatised instead of spending on political parties. Such a policy of this government, meaning again HDZ and MOST, this is the version of 2-0 I consider to be a failure. And the price of this policy will be paid by the citizens themselves. I also want to thank the chairman for not interrupting my exposure, and that's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u641	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Pernar especially for wanting and loving to replicate with the chairman. The first to report from the replicator is MP Tomislav Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u642	Here's just one brief detail, Mr. Pernar, the proposings under this law have not led our citizens astray, namely, the figures you mention do not refer to identical categories. Please consider that. In one case, the total expenditure of the budget, which at budget level was over 100 billion kuna, 115 were planned for 2015 and on the other, it was tax revenues planned at 68 billion. So in the context of those 0.05 and 0.075 respectively, you have no right to, about privatising the government, I believe that someone else will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u643	I'd like to thank Representative Coric. Representative Pernar has the right to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u644	Well, I would like to say that we see that these funds are slightly reduced and that these are not really the reforms that citizens want and expect but are only about cosmetic changes and different technical formulations rather than real reforms. There's no R here either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u645	The next one of the repatriators is a representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u646	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I would just look back at this Mr. Pernar exhibit where he's actually saying there's no reduction, so he mentions percentages, and then he says they're minor reductions. It's about, and that's exactly what's said, so there's no public confusion, it's about six million kunas. But here it is obvious, apart from what Mr. Coric said, that Mr. Pernar wants to appear in the central diary every day, it is obvious that he is the most itchy of the demagogue story about how the parties should reduce their funds for political work and did not respond to the public why next to the party where he is one of the co-chairs of the Living Wall why he tried to register the new party means the same name with the addition of the man who is alive and he mentioned Stjepan Radic and Willibor Sincic is alive and is co-chair of the Living Wall which existes and, by the way, is being registered at the same address, so they tried to register a party in the same address as that party that exists and existes. And I think it's about saving money because obviously it was some kind of crime, mentioning the counterfeiting of signatures and everything else. The MOST did not usurp anything, the management minister acted according to the law because a party that would confuse voters cannot be registered. If some have previously registered HSPs and others and have acted not exactly in accordance with the law, that is not the problem of MOST. The Minister of the Most quota acted according to the law, and here Mr. Pernar will obviously, because it hit him very hard to terrorize all of us here with how he lost his budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u647	Agent Pernar, you have the right to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u648	Mr. Grmoya speaks one false piece of information, which is that it was reportedly wrong before and that MOST had corrected something. We are witnessing that in 7 months this year the party HSS Stjepan Radic was registered. So MOST's minister registered a party that has no big difference in its name between the already existing HSS party. So it's an indisputable fact, but only two months later, suddenly the party can't work with the addition of the name anymore. Mr. Grmoja speaks here of examples as if the parties should be on the dead people, but we still have people like Mr. Milan Bandic who has a party that has his name on his behalf. And I don't consider that in any element controversial. The second thing is that MOST not only means that it made a precedent in the sense that it refused to register to our party, he mentions, be careful what interesting he mentions the issue of address and the Law on Political Parties in Article 11 does not mention similarity in the address but only on behalf of the party. So the explanation of the Ministry of Administration lists things that there are no grounds for rejection in law at all. And the other thing is that so far the ministry has always gone out to meet the political parties and so I repeat to Mr. Prgomet the party has registered in two days, we have rejected it. There is now a certain reason why it was done by those who run the ministry and that it was an unequal act and that the matter of bias is too much to talk about, and hence their honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u649	Thank you, Agent Pernar. The next person to report for the replica is MP Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u650	Although co-worker Ćorić has already explained in some way what this is about, I don't think it's worse to repeat some things because of the representatives of Pernar and the public so as not to confuse them. Apparently, MP Pernar did not fully study the materials, and he did not realize that when he spoke about the percentages that compared completely two different bases. It compares the basics of tax revenues that, according to the 2015 report, amount to 68 billion kuna and expenditures which, according to the 2015 report, are 118 billion kuna. This means, in particular, if we apply the current form with a lower percentage of 0.05 for the parties to receive 57.7 million kuna and by applying this model that we have proposed together with our HDZ colleagues, the parties will receive 51 million kuna. It means something more than six million kunas. It's too small for you, for some others it's too much. They think we're destroying the party system, that this leads to absoluteism. MOST thinks it's one reasonable number and it's one good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u651	I thank Representative Simic. The answer to Mr. Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u652	So, what I'd like to say is that when you talk about the salaries of Parliamentarians, that is, when you talk about these reasonable numbers, is any figure reasonable or not? I do not at all dispute that this figure is reasonable which the parties receive, I do not even claim that they are honestly going to say that the salaries of MPs are too great. Because the base of $12,000 compared to, say, one Germany where the average salary is 2,000 euros is not some big money, but what do we have a problem? We have a problem that there is a difference between the life of the average German and their representative and our representative and the meaning of our citizens. So if our citizens lived better, if we didn't have to dig through the trash, if we didn't have to eat in the soup kitchen, if we didn't have to threaten them with a raid like Mr. Mirko Dukic, who in two days was delegated by an illegal RBA cooperative at the address of Holy Spirit 8, then no one would move the question of whether a party would win 200, 300 or 400 thousand kuna for one agent. But when I have a situation where more than 300 thousand citizens are in a blockade and without the basic means of living, where people are being excavated by electricity and water, where they are being thrown into the street, where their salaries are not paid, where Hanžekovici and various other lenders are doing it, then the question must be asked whether it is moral for each agent to receive 30 thousand kuna per month. Ladies and gentlemen, try to imagine HDZ and SDP if they have, say, 40 MPs how much money is on the monthly basis. And then when you look at how these people live with them is good, they're fine with this system and of course the gentleman will say he doesn't see anything controversial about it because he's fine. But if he were to land and see how he was doing to others, he would soon see that things are unfortunately worse than he thinks they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u653	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar. The next person to report for the replica is the distinguished representative Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u654	Thank you. Dear young colleague Pernar, of course you must react to this exposure because you have quite given up on the credibility and seriousness of the political and I think you have a lot of phraseology in your presentation, not to say demagogy. Why would I say that? All the time you've been talking here you've been sending a message to the public that the parties have been overpaid, that they have too much money, and you've just been, it's a notorious fact that until the last second before the Ministry of Administration, you've been standing there waiting for a new party to register, for a basic reason, to get the means that you should, of course, belong to you. If you'd organized yourself better, we'd probably have those resources right now. Secondly, I come from a small community and live with the people. And don't tell the story that because my party needs to get some funding, those people are looking for food in the container. I've got 10,000 people at the Bureau in Baranja not because the party got the money, but because whoever bought Belje within a year sent 8,000 people to the bureau and that's what they need to talk about. And that's the truth. And don't sell people false messages and use some demagogue phrases because it's not life. You're a long way from real life. In addition, democracy and parliamentaryism cost very, very much. And you're here costing and I'm costing and all of my colleagues are costing, but it's a democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u655	I'd like to thank Agent Horvath. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u656	I'd like to tell Mr. Horvat again, it wouldn't be a problem if the parties were getting so much money, that the citizens would normally live. So, in the last 25 years, this Parliament hasn't done everything it could to get its citizens to their knees through, which through the National Bank Act, which was actually privatized by money, which through the currency clause of the ladies and gentlemen that you've been constantly protecting for years and that has robbed people and brought them to a beggar stick, which through the executive law that puts them out on the street. So, if you hadn't ruined those people today, no one would have asked the question of your privilege. But what happened? People fail, and your privileges remain. And when I asked the question that you had to cut them in half, that's when you all got up on your back feet. That's what he says most about you, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u657	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar. And the next representative to report for the replica is representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u658	Mr. Pernar, I will look back only with a few words on this mention by the Ministry of Economy and Mr. Panenic. It is also true that during the election campaign a series of paid emissions was broadcast by the economy ministry on certain topics where certain results were presented. I will remind those who did not register it at that time in the elections campaign HDSSB addressed the State Election Commission with one objection. The State Election Commission referred our complaint to the Ethics Commission and we got the answer very quickly. This is not about any abuse in terms of crime. The Ethics Commission has suggested and suggested the problem is not exactly the hottest teaming, the time of the pre-election campaign when such emissions from the economy's budget are broadcast and paid and suggested that the ministry, i.e. Minister Panenic, refrained during the election campaign. So, I would like to stress that this is not a criminal offence and that it is not some kind of abuse that would fall within the sphere of criminality, and we, as a party to the HDSSB, have, this summer, pointed to the competent state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u659	I'd like to thank Agent Glavas. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u660	If at the time of the election campaign a party pays, or advertises the achievements of its character and actions, over 20 advertising agencies on all possible televisions, it is clear that it is for propaganda purposes, meaning not for the purpose, I do not know the information of the public. Because for public information there are means there is an information programme. Dear God, so there are diaries, there are news, so news that are relevant is being published. So it's clear from the plane that it was advertising for an election campaign and that the taxpayer's money went to what he left. And of course, the institutions that this same party controls will not see anything controversial in this regard, unlike the citizens who are disgusted by it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u661	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first to report from the MPs is the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u662	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to talk in my debate about the principle, not the amounts, although at this point it seems to me that the more amount has prevailed in our debate. I'm from that group of MPs who opposed the urgency of the procedure, because I think this is an extremely important law, a law that doesn't regulate the electoral process, but runs it. I'll try to explain it a little bit later. I think a bill like this should be a much wider approach, because other than that it regulates at this point the amount of money that is allocated from the budget there is a large amount of money that is actually hard to control or it is difficult to control the motives why they are sent to pre-election campaigns. Whether the intention is good, we can agree on it, but whether it will lead to a solution or cause new problems, we will see. I personally believe that although fellow Simic is in line with the proposal, this legislative proposal has been expressed that the parties should also be financed from the state budget personally, I believe that the parties should exclusively be financed with public money, not with donations. Why do I say that? Donations are hard to control. I don't know, sometimes I think it's a myth, a percentage, or it's just a racket. Who can donate today and to whom? Is it normal or fair that a legal person who performs almost most of the jobs signed in one county by the contract is signed by the mayor with the legal person later that same mayor is on the electoral list and, of course, the company is a donor of the political options. It's the same thing that happens with the so-called. A dung supply where we actually have one and the same contractors and, of course, they are then all-out donors of the political party. There is actually a question of how fair is the election process in the Republic of Croatia? Is the basic premise of democracy respected? And the basic premise is that we're all politically equal. We're not all equal, of course, but politically we have to be equal, we have to go to the same game with the same positions. However, sometimes it seems to me that in a political struggle we are actually at war with power not fighting with our political rival but war with what is behind it, and that is believe me exclusively money. I've experienced it personally when in an election campaign almost every corner to express myself, there's a poster of my opponent, and mine is the only one standing there in corn because you just don't have the money to pay for it. They're very generous donors, and we often forget that these donors have passed pre-war deals, and there's some kind of public money over there. To sum up a story like this might be the best solution for political parties to donate party members. Let everyone plead, be a natural person and be a member of the party. It's funny that in the election promotion, here's what I've experienced and that during the election silence my daughter comes home from the game and I say what it is and she says that's it. The mayor gave the kids a T-shirt at that game. And that's okay? The children are happy about it, but the question is, who paid for those shirts? Today it happens to us that public money, you mentioned it here, public money is funded by campaigns in different ways. Whether through local media, either through some other way of gathering pensioners or anything that someone who's promoted of course gets to know each other. And I think these are the problems we have to deal with. Or Article 23. Let's change it then. Why would religious communities be forbidden to donate political parties? Why couldn't Bishop Kosic donate to the party he wants? If that's what we're going to think, then we're really not going to make it into the Republic of Croatia in the future and still have a political game that's equal. In addition to these examples I'm going to mention one more thing, I think the Law on selecting representatives and members of representative bodies also states that MOST also advocates that people who are convicted of criminal offences cannot run. We are allowed in this law to donate such persons to political parties. Political parties are interested organisations and I find it hard to convince me that someone who donates, especially when it comes to legal persons, if someone donates to the political party that they have no particular interest behind it. So to conclude, if the legal solution were to be, if it had a broader approach, especially in this part of the one relating to justice and to an equal political match, then it would certainly be worth supporting. This partial solution, I don't think, is going to lead to the goal that should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u663	I thank Representative Sagar. The next representative in the individual debate is a representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about this law and in essence why we are opening this session in some way, or this assembly of parliament, with this set of laws, we must remember that the atmosphere created in the public on certain conditions that the Most put before the future government has put some laws on the agenda and these laws are presented as these essential, reform laws which should, as in the future, correct and some injustices, or lead to better situations and better solutions than they were before, and as these problems are those that deeply and most torment Croatian citizens. This is why today we are discussing a law that will reduce the amount of 6 million kuna political parties at the annual level as a key problem at this point in the Republic of Croatia, with which we have no problem. It means neither we in the SDP nor I believe that any party will say that this amount is insufficient or that it should not be reduced and thus show some solidarity, but these are not key problems. On the other hand, the question arises, and we will now see after these laws how long it takes the new government to send the following laws into the process because from the experience of the past term we know that it took several months to start working. We have here a couple of ad hoc laws that are on the agenda and that should create the impression that something has changed crucially, and in fact it has changed or won't change anything at all. Why won't anything change? Because the principle of income expenditure does not mean any savings and we come to a paradox, so de facto tax revenues will form the basis for political parties to receive annual money from the budget. In other words, if we make as much taxes as possible and the higher taxes, the greater revenues to political parties. Imagine that paradox. So MOST proposed a model by which the parties in power would be motivated to raise taxes to get more out of the budget. Does that make any sense to you? It doesn't make any sense to me. On the other hand, in the next period, we expect that the deficit will fall, that tax revenues will grow more than tax expenditures will grow. I'm convinced that's what the ruling majority want. That you don't want the expenses to grow more. Translated by this model, the party's revenue will grow more than the model remains old. As a result, if expenditures were to grow less than revenues, there would be fewer increases. So we have one solution that's absolutely wrong at this point. In three years, if expectations are met, which we all expect growth to be 2%, 3% of annual tax-based incomes, or this model will be bigger for parties than they are today. That's why we're not talking about any savings here. It's about creating an impression. If we were to talk about saving then we here in Parliament would agree on the amount at the annual level needed for political parties to function, whether it is 40, 45, 50 million, it would be a proposal to enter into the budget and not worry at all about tax revenues and tax expenditures. In this way I would say best to edit this system and we could make a decision every year that is appropriate to the moment we are in. This is how we get to the paradox. According to this model, the revenue of the parties will grow more than that of the old model, because we expect tax expenditures to grow slower than tax revenues. As far as public sources of funding are concerned, I think it is in everyone's interest both in this House and in the Republic of Croatia that the political system is being financed as much from public sources as possible in order to be transparent. Then they wouldn't come into the situation if someone suspected us as Mr. Pernar now suspected Mr. Panenic of being financed by a campaign from the state budget, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would see every kuna, every drop of funding for a particular campaign and a certain campaign cost. I am a supporter to limit the amount of donations even to a smaller amount than it is today so that we have as many small donors as possible in relation to those who are large later on wanting to be a man or not have certain access to those who have financed. On the other hand, it is always cheaper and more transparent for Croatian citizens to have full public sources and in the future, perhaps a solution that might be most satisfying for our citizens whether it is almost all financed from public sources in order to end possible doubts that one would have for a particular donor in the future. So to get back to the beginning of this debate, this is not a reform that is why we are abstentioned about it, because and when you have no reform and when you need to pass a law should be involved in the public, communicate it with the public interest to see what people think and not to set up a variety of false reform moves as something that will significantly change the lives of our citizens and what is important to change the order of our system. Because again, according to the old model, the party would get less than they'd get by the new model. I see that Mr. Maric is watching me, he has not heard this argument that 3% of GDP growth every year will lead to three years more parties having budgets in this model than they do today. So we've done essentially, or not us, but it's proposed HDZ and MOST have created a model by which you get more out of the budget than in three years than it is today and that stimulates the parties in power to raise tax burdens. Which means they're doing a good job? So you can also raise the tax burden by raising the amount of tax revenue, so you can raise your party's income tomorrow. I think that maybe motivation and desire was good, that definitely the solution is not good, and it's definitely not what is trying to show the Croatian public that it's about a certain reform because it's not about reform, it's only about one move that should show that this co-operation is conditional on something else's co-operation would not be. And unfortunately, that's obviously how it works in our majority where it has to be shown that MOST controls HDZ because otherwise those 10% of the electoral bodies would no longer have any reason to vote for MOST. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u665	I'd like to thank the representative. The first to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u666	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, half a year ago, you signed this handgun model, you might as well back it up, so you can feel free to check if you haven't forgotten what you signed, just to stay in power. You had elections and recently, the people did not choose you, and thank God that incomes are growing in the country. Unfortunately, during your time, the only thing that grew was the debt, the departures of young people. Of course, you criticize this former government, you criticize the Most, and here you see with such a MOST and such a government in the country is moving forward. You criticise Minister Panenic, if he has done anything illegal, let all bodies do their job. And you're usually a recordman who hasn't explained to us in Parliament either, and I've asked you in the past term how much you've given for commercials or otherwise... instructions on how to record ads from restaurants... how much you've paid for commercials from your Ministry of Enterprise. I asked you that one three, four times in replicas at least. You've opened up here now for Mr. Panenic, like you've called Mr. Pernar, so you might as well say that. So you're saying public sources, of course, are the best public sources. MOST was financed exclusively from these sources in the past campaign, it is easily verifiable, so you can confirm maybe the SDP was thus financed and how much these amounts were. Simple criteria must be the same, but this is a good support, because you can't explain that 57 million is less than 51 million kuna. That's 6 million kuna less for political parties. And if the revenues grow, if the policy does its job, not on the basis of what you're saying, based only on taxes, raises, but on the basis that the state goes forward, to hire people, to have better income, then of course it will grow that part. I'm now... Mr. Pernar that won't be questionable then how many political parties stand out, if people work, if young people don't run like they did while you were in power. We need to remember that only in that period... 100,000 people moved out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u667	I thank Representative Buljo. The answer to Mr. Maras' replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u668	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, believe me, I've never signed anything in my life. And I sign one hand. And the other thing is, I don't normally know if you realize it, but if taxes are the basis, then it's normal for tax burdens if it grows a political party to get more. That's what I said. I said the principle isn't good. You could have defined in the law that the Parliament's annual decision defines how much it is in the budget for political parties and put 50 million in the next five years. You could have defined it by law. But you've just made a illogical system because if the taxes are higher parties get more. That's all I said. The higher the tax burden on Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs will get more. HDZ and MOST have introduced that principle into law. That's what I was gonna say. As far as Mr Panenic is concerned, I did not say in a word about it, I just said that there would be no need for Mr Pernar to mention it at all and the answer to this question was made public by the ministry so that you could inform yourself in the ministry of entrepreneurship, so you will see how much it was and what it was. It's just the principle that counts. And thank God you're telling me, so for the last year, everything's been moving forward and the young have started coming back to Croatia, did you say that? Since the bridge took responsibility, young people are no longer moving out of Croatia. So that's your conclusion. For the past year, everything has blossomed. Unfortunately, I think you're wrong and you can look at the statistics, for the past year, trends have continued what youth leaving Croatia is like, and we should work together to stop it. But don't go by the criteria when I'm in power is great and when you're in power, nothing's wrong. ... It's just indicators. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u669	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u670	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Maras, what you're saying implies that eventually the government would behave in a way that would increase taxes so that the party's income would be higher. Of course, I don't believe it, nor do I want to believe that such a thing will happen. But I took this opportunity to say something much more important. On Friday last, when we first met here and established the Parliament, all the journalists here in the lobby asked me and my colleagues what you think about this latest announcement, which I haven't heard, that we understand each other, but it's bad if we talk about it, at least in a culinary way, that there's no reverse process that's announced in the campaign by all parties but at this point it's important that it's announced by you who make up the ruling majority and that's exactly a tax reduction. And I'm using this opportunity to provoke this issue here and here in the House and, of course, provoke a government that will be voted upon this week to send legal solutions in this house regarding the reduction, perhaps not at this point in the VAT, where we can agree with you to wait but certainly announced tax cuts on income and pay increases for our citizens, that's the first thing I expect from you. If you don't do it, we'll do it as an opposition. And the other thing we expect from you is to cut the profit tax you also announced and promised. So here's the thing, they have to go in that direction, not as much as a colleague Maras wanted in some way just to caricate. And of course that means then reducing revenue for the parties, which will certainly be welcomed by the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u671	I thank the Greek representative. The next person to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u672	Well, here's a thank you, pretty President. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Greek, who warned him of this false assumption by my colleague Maras. She's really not standing. So this model, the new model of functioning or financing of political parties, will be based primarily on economic growth and not on the tax press as you, Mr Maras, have alluded in your presentation. As far as tax evasion is concerned, if they can look back briefly, so the full tax reform will be presented by the future finance minister at the moment when a new Croatian government is established and Croatian citizens will not be damaged in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u673	I'd like to thank Representative Coric. The reply to the replica, with an apology for the last reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u674	It's all right. Thank you very much. So, Mr. Coric, how do we know that? To “my mother ”? How do you see it in the budget on what you're saying? Whether or not it is seen in future projections, how much less will be on the basis of tax burden or more on the basis of economic growth. It's the same income. I'm telling you that principle is not good. I also don't speak as a fellow Greek here to wish and that someone would use it. I'm telling you that our citizens and entrepreneurs are looking and saying, look, I'm paying that tax and the bigger tax revenue, the more I pay the parties, the more they get. I'm saying that principle and principle are bad. Either you will now tell me here in front of everyone or someone from HDZ who will be in charge of the tax revenues for the next three years or four years will not grow at all. Maybe you'll say that, too. In that case, I accept your argument if they remain the same on the growth rate or tax discharge, then that makes sense, but otherwise it can't be measured. On the other hand, I'm saying you chose the wrong principle. Whether at speed, whether under the pressure of MOST, Mr. Bull or someone else, I don't know, but the principle is guilty. Because as I'd say, if tax burden is the basis for someone's income, it's the wrong principle. You could have easily determined that it was 50 million kunas a year, so let's keep it for the next 4, 5 or 7 years. That'd be... You can say anything you want, but what does static mean? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u675	Representative Coric, I would only ask that you refrain from the replicas to the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u676	But by that logic, by that logic, Mr. Coric has just given me the right to rule, HDZ and MOST will insist on increasing tax revenues, or taxes. And there will be greater revenues from political parties on that side. So you just told me. You do not want to reduce political party revenues but to be dynamic and to grow. That every year we have 3.5% higher income for HDZ and MOST.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u677	Agent Maras, thank you. I deliberately let Mr. Maras go this time a little bit longer because last time I didn't notice a reply to the replica. So I put it back. The next representative to report for the replica is Agent Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u678	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You have stated that it is paradoxical that budget allocations for the work of political parties are taken according to budget revenues rather than expenditures. I'll just remind you that we already have a series of legal solutions and almost all speeches when it comes to these expenditures for institutions or societies that are important to our country that the expenditures for them are accounted for by budget revenues rather than expenditure. Thus, we have the Fire Department, which states in Article 45 that fire departments are based on revenue from budgets, not expenditure. So the Law on the Croatian Red Cross article 30 also says that the allocations are based on budget revenues. So we already have a series of legal solutions where the expenditures for certain institutions, societies that are important for the functioning of the state, are being made according to budget revenues rather than expenditures, so no one is saying it would be paradoxical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u679	Thank you. Representative Maras has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u680	Mr. Uncle, you just said something that's fucked up. So fire and certain other things have income based on it, but the whole debate here today is about reducing 6.7 million political parties. I'm just saying that according to this model that you're proposing you're going to be incomed by the party in three years is going to be bigger than you are today. As Mr. Coric would say, dynamically. It's going to grow 3.4% a year, eventually it's going to be higher than it is today. That's what I said. We must also be aware how our citizens and entrepreneurs will hear this message. That the more we tax them, the more the party's incomes will be higher. Only this message is important to the ears of our entrepreneurs and citizens to see the reform proposed by HDZ and MOST. So that's what this is about. I'm happy, too. So today I also got confirmation. Mr. Coric told me he expects a rise in political party revenues in the coming years. That's good, from the tax revenue generated by the state budget. In other words, the more we tax you, the more the parties will get.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u681	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. Next from the advocate who answered the floor, the rep is representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Maras, we really don't see where so many of your demagogue stories came from today, but what you have now in the last answer admits even I agree with this law bringing 6 million kuna savings from this budget. And that's what matters. The protection mechanisms that you want to propose would say here we add only one sentence that they can't be more than 50 million or 55 million or 57 million and there's the end of the story. If, and God forbid, we all hope that it will be an economic shift that will happen, economic growth, and that these revenues will grow and we will in short changes and additions if it is necessary to put in place this protection mechanism so that the parties do not get too much as you predict, and the state budget will grow and tax revenue will grow. However, when everyone really wants to be a cover I would just like to say that we remember the word of the great leader as he said it we will change the law because so it will have to be to have the party as much as possible. After that, there are no reports of the funds collected and spent in the campaign one year, and you are denied 5 million kuna. Well, that was the pressure on the judiciary, on all institutions, on the Committees of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, on all life. It was a terrible debate. The penalty paid by the SDP amounted to 614 thousand kunas, in order to be released by the Constitutional Court 5 million kuna, as it abolished the procedure in the meantime. Two years in a row on the transparency of spending, and many times we hear a call here on how to conduct the procedure, that the procedure is being conducted but this is a punishment which has been used already towards you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u683	Thank you. Representative Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u684	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Djakic, so I don't know if there can be a shorter change and a supplement than what we got today. So that's where half the sentence was supposed to be written. So write down, you have time. There's two more discussions. Count it out, celebrate. Be you, Mr. Josip Djakic, who has limited political parties from receiving more than 51 million kuna. Here I give you an idea, be that person who will stop the political party's revenues from increasing in the coming years. So it's a 15, 20-second, half-minute job. Do it, you have time and I will vote for your amendment. Here you won't believe it, but I'll vote. And as for the great leader, I don't know who you mean? Did you mean Ivo Sanader or Karamark? I really don't get it, because you big leaders change very quickly. You have every three months a new great leader. You almost beat this one in Lisinsky, so now he's become a great leader. Oh, no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u685	Thank you, Agent Maras. The next person to answer the word is a respected representative of Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u686	Mr. Maras, I have a question for you. If you agree, and we suggest that this is an opportunity to change something in the law, to prevent the financing of political parties by companies, whether private or public. In fact, individual parties took, received loans from some companies in which the state, several hundred million kunas of public money, meant to place support and these loans were not returned. We read that two, three months ago. We called in the election campaign of the State Audit Office to publish the exact information that the party has, so here's a concrete proposal. So, MOST has been launched, we need to welcome that initiative to bring this into order. But let's take advantage of the opportunity to make it impossible for companies to finance parties because it's hidden funding that sometimes doesn't come back, write off credits, etc. So here's a good opportunity to add that. And if you really want us to act together in the interest of the citizens we protect from throwing public money. That's it. What do you think about that, and is this a society of distinguished MPs and MPs ready to take that step?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u687	Honorable representative Maras, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u688	So my position is personal that we go as far as possible towards public funding. I would sincerely ban donations over a certain amount that can be symbolic in the nature of 1000, 2000 kuna. It means that our political parties have maximum public sources. Otherwise, companies are already banned from public funding. It's against the law. Sometimes, though, a little bit of FIMI Media turns out to be something, no. But sometimes in the end, it comes to its own, or people see that it's not right and eventually some procedures are being conducted. Oh, no? That Mr. Djakic knows well how in Virovitica his mayor worked while he was a minister. So on this side, I am for the maximum public funding of all parties at local and national level so that citizens have absolutely not under the control of finance but in order to finance in some way would not be led to doubt at all that there is a possibility of any interest, conflict of interest in the future, whether it has been announced or not, it is also not by law that what you have said is not to announce whether anything has been financed was a service or money in question. So if you stay that way and if everyone here sees you in the debate right now, and we swear that we want public sources of funding to be dominant, I don't see any reason why this wouldn't happen in this way and ensure that the maximum donation from 200,000 kuna is reduced to type 5 or 10,000 kuna. In that situation, I believe that no one would see any potential conflict of interest in the future. And as for the loan, we saw that some were borrowing and how they borrowed it from companies that are deeply connected to the state budget, i.e. along with a sector that is very interesting to individual parties that are now in power. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] So it's about energy. No one's taking energy because he's an altruist. [[Aggressor President: Representative Maras Time!]] Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u689	Thank you. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is the distinguished representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A lot has been said in the presentation of Mr. Maras and the replicas that followed, so there's no reason to repeat myself. I would say briefly, that I really believe that the pre-election promises that were made in the election campaign, and I will remind the SDP in the election campaign announced 140,000 jobs, the HDZ announced 180 000 jobs. Looking at what someone offered the electoral body thank God that they won HDZ on the assumption that they really did what they promised. So 180,000 new jobs in this next term are not a small number for four years. And if God were to do what you said, which you have promised deeply, I deeply believe that economic growth will occur in the Republic of Croatia and that thanks to this economic growth and political party for its work and action, regardless of what 0.075% of the tax revenues achieved are listed in this proposal, this will also be an increase for all political parties. If that happens, I don't think anyone in the Republic of Croatia will look with animosity at political parties in the sense that they are financed without reason from the state budget, because even then the situation in the Republic of Croatia will be much, much better. And that is why I will support this law, this bill, because I believe that it is not the motive and intention of the ruling majority when they tabled this proposal to amend and supplement this law to increase taxes so that political parties get bigger money, greater resources for their political action, but rather that the reason is quite different, i.e. that these reasons are driven by positive initiatives. And I believe that the political parties will be on their own very soon. Otherwise, what I would say as an observation, but it is not in the domain of large parties that this law will reflect on the harm of smaller political parties. That's not the problem with big political parties, because whoever has a lot if you take it a little, they'll still have a lot, and whoever has a little if you take it, and a little bit of it will be left with a little bit and less. However, I deeply believe that neither these smaller political parties will, therefore, be able to say the minimum amount in relation to the entire state budget of the 6.7 million kuna that they will fail or be disabled in their work and action. And I end up with the emphasis that as a representative of the HDSSB as a gesture of goodwill on your good intentions, which I am deeply convinced to support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u691	I thank Agent Branimir Glavas. The first representative to report for the replica is Representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u692	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You told your exposé that you wanted to, and I wish that 180 thousand people would be hired. The only thing you need to know is that it is a prerequisite for economic growth because without investment and without creating new values there are no new jobs, and you and I also want these jobs to happen right in Slavonia and Baranja because the most people are evicting from Slavonia and Baranja and the highest unemployment rate is right in Slavonia and Baranja. The most difficult thing for us in Slavonia is to find sponsors and donors because most of the strong companies are registered in Zagreb and the surrounding area, there are very few in Slavonia and most of them are difficult to operate. So we at HSS also advocate that as much funding as possible of political parties is defined from public money and that it should be in the context of economic growth and not too much on the burden of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, at this point, it is the impression that political parties are spending money, and there is no money. Of course, there must be a compromise here and that we from HSS understand our members and members because the hardest thing to do right now is to live in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u693	Thank you, counsel. Replication response, Agent Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u694	So, normally, economic growth is supposed to employ 180 thousand jobs more or less. So, without economic growth, there is no employment. And in order for this real economic growth to feel then these people have to get a job. If they employ the normal expected consequence of all this, there must also be an increase in the tax revenues achieved in the state budget. So, I believe that the HDZ that he promised in the election campaign, and I want to believe that the HDZ he promised in the election campaign, will open 180,000 jobs this time as a serious political party, and keep its promise. If he executes it, I will truly rejoice and support such a political option. And I suppose that this number of 180 thousand new jobs in the next four-year term that political option did not come to mind from the sleeves, but that behind those figures they announced that they would realize and achieve a quality economic programme for the next four-year period in which we have not heard much or almost anything so far, so I expect that on Wednesday, when we put together a new Croatian government, we will have more information and more arguments, which will be an additional reason to believe that what was announced and realized during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u695	Thank you, Agent Glavas. The next representative to report for the replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u696	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Col. Glavas, it's nice to mention the pre-election promises and the hope you've expressed that all of this will come true just about economic growth and it really looks nice and ideal and political parties in the future don't have to worry about your mathematics about co-financing the work of political parties. However, I would like to point out that also these political parties, whether the SDP, whether HDZ, I say the biggest ones, were full of words of decentralisation. And now I'm asking myself an open question, if there's a decentralisation in particular that fiscal one will again reduce income in that state budget, and I can see that the parties will still have much less in the future if they stick to those promises made by the big parties in terms of decentralisation which, in our view, is the first prerequisite for this economic growth that everyone has promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u697	The answer to the replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u698	Well, I'll just say for a little while, almost all the political options in all the election campaigns so far, but unfortunately only during the election campaigns have announced decentralisation. So is this election campaign that took place a month, two days ago. The mouth was full of both left and right of the political option to this very notion of decentralisation. I personally don't believe that there will be decentralisation, at least not that level to make this assumption that you're talking about, but whatever it is I want to believe that there will be economic growth and I want to believe and truly expect HDZ as a winning option in these elections to fulfill the pre-election promise in the 4-year period of opening 180 thousand jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u699	Thank you. And the last representative to report for the replica is Representative Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u700	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. You mentioned in your small political party debate that they were the most affected by that law. In this debate, I would like to mention the situation in the campaign of this last parliamentary party where one small political party for which one doesn't even know where it came from had the richest, most expensive campaign by number and posters and yinglova. That was amazing. Whenever you opened the radio, they called in that candidate for prime minister and the campaign, but you just don't know where the money came from. I am now asking here all of us MPs and the Croatian public, what should be done, how many of these expensive campaigns in parliamentary elections should be to be launched? Guy, I don't know who, I'm afraid to mention the police because right now they're going to say here, they're doing political pressure, they're asking to be investigated, and so on, I'm not asking. I want to know what needs to be done in order for someone to even ask the question to go to the agency and ask where the money came from, who paid for it, we want to know. I want to know as an agent, the citizens want to know. It's not like we're pretending to be a blur, that no one ever reacts to anything and that kind of thing goes on forever. This we had in 2007, 2008, we know how these things ended in courts, now I don't mention HDZ not to think, but there are such things in Croatia still in the campaigns used, and nobody even asks. I hope two MPs don't make a difference between who can because those two MPs are important and one who can't. Let someone show in this Croatia that such things will no longer be possible in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u701	The answer to the replica is "Glassor."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u702	At the moment, I thought to myself that you said about a small political party that you were thinking about my political party, but from your further presentation, I concluded that you were not thinking about my political party. I agree completely with you. HDDSB spent 840 thousand kuna on an election campaign, which was also transparently announced, and we only went to two constituencys, 4th and 5th and I don't think we've been throwing too much. The campaign was mediocre, so in financial terms 840 thousand is not a little money, but 840 thousand kuna in two constituencys is not too much. Because when you rewrite it to 10 electoral units, you can come to the conclusion without a problem, you won't make much of a mistake that such a small political party has spent between eight and 10 million kunas at least. Anything else that's put in the reports, if it's put in place, I haven't analyzed anyone's reports except for my party, if it's underreal, it's covered up and the campaign's been run and paid for by black money. I agree with you that this too should be put to an end, and I believe that it is a matter of competent state bodies, state institutions, to deal with it. There should not be much wisdom and wisdom, take reports to review what has been used in the management of the pre-election campaign, starting with printed media, electronic media, jumbo posters, other types of promotional material, and very quickly and nearly realistically, there will be an item as to how much this small political party has spent. I fully agree with you that this needs to be cleared up, to narrow down the space for the way such political parties act, whether small or large, now we're dealing with the small, in the past the big parties did so. Politics and I know, so I fully support you to deal with this Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u703	Thank you, Agent Glavas. And the next person to report for an individual debate is representative Zeljko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u704	...I welcome my fellow president and other colleagues. What has asked me to participate in this debate is not the fact that this is really a proposal that should be supported because it represents a reduction of not financial importance but a reduction that shows probably has the intensity to open the way for laws to be passed in the future which will have a financial component of reducing rationalisation and savings and me and my colleagues will support this proposal. But what actually asked me to answer and to participate is the fact that here is the second day of the Croatian Labour Assembly we discuss only and exclusively about ourselves, about our rights, forgetting absolutely everything that was said in the campaign. We no longer focus on the problems of the Croatian man, we focus and act here listening to representatives of political parties who spoke on behalf of clubs and individually as merchants as representatives of the union when collective bargaining is few and many. I am truly sorry when my colleague Pernar does not take himself seriously, and in fact he shows very well through his discussions the gap that exists between the ordinary Croatian man and the political elites sitting here. Not everyone here is political parties, and there are independent political representatives. What is important is that by discussing the entire day of one income that represents under one draft of the Croatian budget, we may have made more of a cost than we have saved. If we were to work at such a pace in the future, probably six million a day would mean that we could eventually discuss about a billion kunas in one year, which is again below 1% of the Croatian budget. I don't think this is an appropriate way to even argue about their own rights, that these clubs should have agreed, that this should have been voted in 20 minutes, without any great philosophy or questioning where the campaign money comes from, because all of you gentlemen from all political parties have a lot of headways and it's not appropriate from anyone to point out that the campaign at the prime minister because everyone is using hidden advertising from those who manage public institutions and public companies to those who run certain resolutions and ministries. So, no wonder in North Korea they convince people to play their football team in the finals with Brazil because they don't have Internet, they don't have access to any media, but what we do to Croatian citizens is far beyond that. On their living eyes, healthy ones, we assure them that their interest is to choose people who will sit in the Croatian Parliament and discuss their rights for a whole day whether they will receive 51 or 57 million kuna. If this is a rational way and the purpose of this Assembly, then I really think that the citizens went out in vain and chose unless it was the intensity of this law to question whether there should be more private or public money in political parties than one direction that would indicate that they would go rationally and that they would also start cutting into those who might need it but would be denied their rights because it would impose budget rules. Finally, we support this proposal and I will always report for the word when I believe that the Croatian Parliament is not doing its job and that it is conducting such a debate because as an independent representative, I view all the political options equally, but I will once again remind all those who resisted the campaign, so Mr. Bandic will first sweep at his door if they have any knowledge that there are state institutions. And don't forget we are seen by Croatian entrepreneurs and citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs are not thieves and should be allowed to participate, so with their money in campaigns. Because waiting for me as an entrepreneur wouldn't finance a certain option that would understand me? And why don't I influence her to pass the laws that need to be passed and the reason that through public money we'll get something else isn't and it's not true because for 25 years we've seen it failed to secure public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u705	Thank you, Your Honor. The first to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, this debate may be strange, but democracy is so. So you can make the amendment freely on this proposal. From this debate given the amendment, we here parliamentary representatives, exactly have services that will help you to make this amendment and so these amendments can be completed and we can vote if you have an idea. But in the end, you said yourself that you would support this because 57 is smaller than 51 million kuna, meaning 6 million kuna and otherwise it doesn't matter as much as 6 million kunas as it is a much more important principle of grant based on income. Here was the MOST's income-based intensity, not on the expenditure side, so they were unequal and much more unreal issue of political funds to political parties. Democracy is strange, which is why I say once again, every proposal you make as a parliamentary representative, an individual will come in handy. But personally, if you say we don't have any contact with the other MPs, you're the only one who's a colleague of Pernar's is a lie. I come from a village where 500 people live, 600, every day I'm in touch with the poor, with people who have literally nothing, have no jobs because I come from these parts and live with those people who are mostly hard to live in, or have no jobs, live directly with them. I don't know if you're in the role of maybe mayor, maybe with mayor you can't see it as well as a regular man standing up for a little man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u707	Thank you, Agent Miri Bulju. Replication response by representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u708	So my intensity is that you shouldn't be afraid of entrepreneurs, I'm a personal entrepreneur, I've worked as mayor for 40 months without a single kuna, and there's a question of how there's now a sinister game or what kind of deal or my interest. The Croatian policy should include entrepreneurs who will be very clear what needs to be done in this country. And I'm telling you, this whole day has been wasted in vain, and we've been discussing 6 million and we haven't touched the important people and the important things, and my colleague Pernar, I just apostropheed because he's just starting out of that place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u709	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. The next representative to report for the replica is the representative of Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u710	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm surprised if there's really someone in this House who doesn't take Mr. Pernar seriously, if anyone needs to be taken seriously, I think he should be taken seriously. He namely entered the Parliament from the last place on the list which I believe is the privilege of only a very small number of MPs. He ran a campaign with very modest funds of several tens of thousands of kunas. And what matters most is what he said before the election continued to speak after the election. So if anyone isn't taking it seriously, it would be time to change their mind because Mr. Pernar is quite serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u711	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your debate, it seemed like you said everyone was using an unauthorized so-called election campaign. black funds, so I'd like you to do it again because if you're all using it then you're using it, too, which means you used illegal funds in the campaign. I'm just warning you that in this situation, if someone is listening, you should be invited to an informed conversation if you have that information that everyone is using or maybe you're playing or you're a little more flabby and you didn't mean it. It's very serious stuff. So you can't say in your discussion that first they clean in front of their doors and everyone's using it anyway, so why don't we? That's how I figured it out and I believe a lot of people in the assembly here this statement of yours. Since it's a campaign that you've been involved in, you probably have that kind of knowledge, and you can definitely say whether it's true or not. Here's what I'm hoping you'll answer the line and say what you meant by that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u713	Thank you, Agent Maras. The answer to the line, Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u714	Mr Maras therefore you must know that something is happening or is not happening depending on whether you want to admit it or not, whether you want to talk about it or not. So someone who's in independent politics moves one step at a time. He doesn't even have a party room, he doesn't have the property he rents, so he doesn't have a starting position in the Parliament. Everything you or the SDP have. On the other hand, you yourself were a minister and you know very well that the minister's function is very easy and easy to adapt in pre-election time, so in a political game. I was talking about this way of covert financing and campaigns because we can pretend that I don't know the advertising of HEP that's unfavorable at the time before the election has nothing to do with the campaign. But that's how people in North Korea can cheer for their team in the finals against Brazil who don't play, but they convinced them and closed their eyes and they don't have a chance to see it. I see it, and if I'm the one who's supposed to go to an informed conversation, the one who should have seen and had to see and who's getting paid for it, and that's the state's attorney, it's the independent judiciary, it's all those who get paid every day and, among other things, watch this show here, so let them investigate all this stuff that he said I don't know, what I said, and what we all know together. So let them choose, let them come, so if they don't, someone who has healthy eyes and we'll show them, choose one among them who has good eyes and let the rule of law work for us, and we don't have to be afraid of hidden funding, but we don't have to be afraid of the kind of accusations you've been making on the gentleman's campaign.../The speaker off./... And I'm not his lawyer, so I don't think there's any need to explain it further in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u715	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. The next representative to report for the replica is a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u716	Here, Mr. Lackovic, you made two dangerous claims to me. The one mentioned by Mr. Maras means that everyone does, and the other, that entrepreneurs should and that it is normal for you to give your money and then influence the policies that a particular party will implement. Those are very dangerous claims. I don't mind that some small amounts are donated to political parties, but every major amount obliges the donor to maybe implement that policy that this man or this company or that entrepreneur gave a certain amount of money. So that's a lot of dangerous claims. And as for what we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament today, I think that in your presentation you commended MOST's initiative that this proposal goes according to an emergency procedure to discuss this as little as possible, to bring this in because you yourself said that this is a good proposal that reduces funds to political parties by 6 million kuna. They're linked to budget revenues so I don't think there's any dispute that this is something that we all need to raise our hand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u717	I'd like to thank my representative, Grumoja. And a reply to the replica by Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u718	So the intensity is correct, the intensity is fine. What I said is still standing there, what happens if we don't talk about it doesn't mean it's not happening. So, regardless of the way something is being advertised or being secretly advertised at the time of the election, if you don't put it in the cost of your election campaign, it won't be called campaign spending. That's what everyone does and it's important to say simply because there's no man who's in the campaign or his party won't. We can call it legitimate, but I'm telling you that as much as less money, let's just say it's out of here now. It is necessary to monitor how much money from public institutions, public companies will go into pre-election and how individual brands will be branded and how individual projects will be branded and how they are in fact in this amazing cycle of pre-election events that happen in Croatia every two years or this year after year. And that's why we're where we are. And that's why people, citizens, entrepreneurs don't trust each other. And the fact that someone is going to invest and support a particular policy means that the economy must choose its own politicians rather than dictate politics to the economy. And that's why our economy is both a trom, and it can't deal with competition because that's how much it depends on public money, on budget spending and on policies. Because if you don't have anyone in politics, your company won't even work. And that's a public matter and you're fighting it and you need to know that these are the principles in Croatia and we can't pretend that they don't exist just because we won't admit that they exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u719	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. The next representative to report for the replica is the respected MP Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u720	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lackovic, you have brought out several things that I would like to turn on and your colleagues have already done their job before, the Parliament does not, namely, do not, all that comes into the parliamentary procedure no more or less important things. This may not be in your opinion, but if you listened carefully to the debates and clubs we all agreed that this was an extremely important topic. Yes, it's changing from 0.005 to 0.75, but the consequences of that, we've all pointed to that. I therefore think it is not correct for you to express that view, although it is your opinion, that it is not doing well in the Parliament. That's one thing. The other thing, you have to respect the fact that you might have noticed, the government is not appointed, the government is not confirmed, the government is one of the main promoters in the Parliament although now this case is being denied, but we are patient. I'm just, I hope the government starts doing their job as soon as possible. And thirdly, you're part of the coalition as far as I understand it, so why didn't you propose in your agreements to your partners, to the coalition or what it is to speed things up? Entrepreneurs in politics agree, any citizen of the Republic of Croatia can be elected, has the right to be elected, can choose. So where are they? Why don't they want to get involved in politics? I only wish you four years' term and to see that this policy business, I think that all of us here in the Parliament and who we were in previous mandates, this is kind of bread with seven crusts. For nothing you do here you won't get commendation. You'll get a shot and you'll be guilty. It's a job of interest to all citizens and we all experience it that way, so I believe that after a year, you too will change your mind about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u721	Thank you, Agent Batinić. The answer to the line, Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u722	I wouldn't want to be like this on my own, so I'd like to get this debate out of hand. I have to answer. So this is a topic that is important for political parties, but not for citizens. So politics has such a strong impact on the economy today, the judiciary and all the cycles that happen in society that none of the normal entrepreneurs dares to enter politics, and that is what should change. And when you have more entrepreneurs in politics, then they will not fear what they will do after the end of the term or what I will do after a year and how I will think after a year. In a year, I will think as much as I think today, and I will think the same for 11 years because I have my own occupation, my job and, among other things, by failing to comply with this right and reducing the time limit that I will not be able to deal with my activity will not have so much impact on my overall living income, but on the state's revenues is not going to get those tax revenues that far out of my work what I'm accomplishing here as income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u723	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. And the last representative to report for the replica is Agent Richemergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u724	Comrade Lackovic, you have presented several topics that are extremely dangerous when said in Parliament. Your thesis will only be attributed to conditional inexperience. You're not an unexperienced politician, you're in the Parliament for two days, maybe, but you've been in politics a lot longer. Tell your colleagues and colleagues in this House that they're talking too much about something that's like an ephemeral topic. My dear colleague Lackovic, you've spoken about this subject for eight minutes. If each of the 151 MPs had spoken so much this debate would have lasted 20 hours. It only lasts three. So that's the first thing. It's another thing. You've come to the Croatian Parliament, it's Parliament. The root of the word Parliament is a verb which means to speak. We don't have any other means in our hands conditionally spoken than a word. We have to be allowed to talk even if you don't like those things. And if the topic of curbing corruption in the financing of political parties is irrelevant to you and ephemeral then I really have a problem with understanding what your mission is in politics. And the last. Say that entrepreneurs should have their own representatives. Well, it's a blast of the kind you've never heard in this House. Maybe some entrepreneur of his own and bought it, but I would never like to experience a day here in these benches on the left is going to stand representatives of Agrokor, on the right side of Podravka, in the middle of the Atlantic or Pliva. No, I want to live in a free country where anyone who is an entrepreneur can achieve their legitimate interests as a voter and as a citizen, but not in a way to buy and send their representatives here. Election law given the property censorship this country abolished more than a hundred years ago and gave all citizens the right to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u725	Replica response, Agent Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u726	So it'll be ten minutes if we put it together nicely. So what I'm saying is, I say clearly, and you don't have to twist what I said because I didn't say that entrepreneurs should have their own representatives, but you don't need to be afraid of entrepreneurs in politics and those who can speak freely, and you said that Parliament is the place where we're free to talk then let me speak freely. I have reported that I am taking part in this debate not to strengthen or specifically contribute to this proposal that I have said that I will support and which is correct, but because of the fact that the person here is colleague Pernar was in his own examples of how he described the disproportionateness, so between the lives of the citizens and their issues and the problems and the rights that come true by my free conviction that I have again in this House and then it doesn't have to be true. So you don't have to tell me what I didn't say, and what I said even though it's said a different meaning is clear. So let's let all those who want to finance political parties and depend among other things on the quality of lawmaking not only on how much you will be in charge but also on whether you will pass laws that will contribute to the growth of the economy that you expect a lot of and here we all expect together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u727	I would like to thank Agent Lackovic for his reply to the replica. That's how we exhausted this part of the debate. I'm closing the debate. What I can only notice before we determine the quorum is that, regardless of the discussion, no official amendments have been tabled, so there will be none in this section.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u729	On behalf of the SDP club, we're looking for a 15 minute break before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u730	Then we'll have a break of 15 minutes and then we'll determine the quorum and vote. Thank you. It's 16:30 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:45 A.M.]] The SDP representative club requested a break. I'd like to ask their representative, Agent Arsen Bauk, for a five-minute explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u732	Thank you, Mr. President. So, this law, if passed, will be passed so-called. The method of breaking over the knee. This is very clear and certain because it was not really necessary for this to go in this way before the government's vote on an urgent procedure. But here's to somehow preserve the credibility of one of the coalition parties that is at least one so-called. The guarantee was fulfilled then given by another coalition partner from HDZ to pass this law but not the way they wanted but the way HDZ wanted it to be, which is fine. What's this about? This morning, at a session of the Legislative Committee, therefore, there was a promise made by one of the motions that an amendment would be given in such a way that the maximum amount would be limited to 50 million kuna but not seven, eight hours after the amendment was made. Why didn't he come? Probably because the proposings of the two clubs could not agree on the amendment. What's this about? In 2011, support for political parties under this law amounted to 59 million kuna. And then came that unnatural government and the political parties cut it by nine million kunas to 50 million and 200 thousand kuna. This amount was also the amount for 2013 and in 2015 that amount was 55 million kuna in accordance with the applicable law. In May 2015, the Parliament voted in its first reading on the draft law which said that political parties in the budget should belong to 0.88% of tax revenues, which in one part corresponds to this bill but with the restriction that this amount cannot be more than 50 million kuna. And if that amendment had come, which it didn't, it would have been in line with our 2015 bill. We did not get in the bill the amount that will be for the political parties in 2016, he will according to our calculation when this law is implemented and the law that is now in force is 59.5 million kuna which is the largest amount so far that we have received as a political party. Therefore, without great effect, this law should not have been passed by an emergency procedure, this was only one play for the public. According to the 2016 budget projections, the budget projections for 2017 and 2018 will be €52.8 million in 2017 and €54.2 million in 2018, and if what you promised for growth is realized it will be even more. Therefore, this law is really just one play for the public, tossing sand into the eyes, it will allow MOST to say that they have fulfilled one of its seven guarantees, or reportedly met because the 2016 budget report will show that they did not. HDZ is welcome to show the muscles a little bit and say we won't limit it to 50 million kunas, you can't do it without us, and the law won't pass you. And it is not the best start of a new Croatian Parliament and other version of the HDZ and MOST coalition. Therefore, the SDP club cannot support this bill, we will remain as I have announced this morning with abstention. And I'd like to say once again, so 2% of GDP growth increases tax revenues by about a billion and 400 million kuna, and to political parties in this area somewhere a million, million and 50,000 kuna each year, so we're really going to stay closer to 60 than 50. You should have given the amendment, had the courage of at least one of the representatives of the Most when you couldn't have the club and given the amendment to limit this to 50 million kunas like our proposal. So a step in the right direction but not enough anyway, I'd say more half-step. Thank you. And I don't think there's a replica to the club exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u733	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u734	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the injured article 250, namely the distinguished representative, abused the situation and spoke after the debate was concluded on the same subject, on the same subject after the debate was concluded. This is contrary to Article 250. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u735	Thank you. And the breach of the Rules of Procedure one more time, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u736	Mr. President, I think Mr. Reiner hurt Article 33, which speaks of President-in-Office's obligations by insisting that you did something wrong, and you did exactly what you were supposed to do under Article 250. The Rules of Procedure to which he was called, you concluded the debate when it was found that there were no more registered speakers and at the moment you concluded the debate, there were indeed no more speakers reported. The president really didn't make a mistake this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u737	We'll determine the quorum first. I'd like everyone to sign up. I find that quorum exists, 114 present agents. I'd like to approach the vote. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Please engage. Who's in favor of accepting this law? The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is required 82 for, 36 abstentions, none of the MPs against the passed Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u739	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 2nd session held on 17 October 2016 the written request of Representative Josip Catalinić, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his representative mandate to rest on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 15 October 2016 Most Independent Lists, Most pursuant to Article 42(2). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative of Mark Sladoljev. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Josip Catalinić's mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Mark Sladoliv,'s office. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the stay of the representative's mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative's office on 15 October 2016 shall mean the rest of the representative's term of office, Josip Katalinić, and Marko Sladolov's representative's office as deputy representative, in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to behave on 17 October 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u740	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? I find that most of the votes 117 are for, 1 abstention and no MP against the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm going to the next point. After the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, a representative who begins to act shall be sworn in. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, by name, be called by the representative. The representative when the uprising was called and said "I swear." The text of the oath reads: “I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia.”
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u741	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u742	Congratulations to the representative on his sworn oath. I want success in performing an honorable and responsible representation. [[Applause.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 21.20 HOURS]] I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u744	The President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Mandatno-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament, discussed at the 3rd session held on 19 October 2016 the written request of Representative Andrej Plenkovic of 19 October 2016, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he would put his representative mandate to rest for the conduct of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duty within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Union has appointed Ljubica Lukacic as deputy representative Andrej Plenkovic. Following the above-mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a Decision on the stand-off of MPs and to initiate the conduct of the deputy deputy deputy. On 19 October 2016, the rest of MP Andrej Plenković's term of office begins with today's Deputy Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u745	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. ... If you want to unite? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u746	All right, all right. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 3rd session held on 19 October 2016 the written request of Representative Davor Ivo Stier from today's day to inform the President of the Croatian Parliament that he would put his representative's term of office at rest due to the conduct of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and of the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Union has appointed Majda Buric as deputy representative of Davor Ivo Stier. Following the above-mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a Decision on the stand-off of MPs and to initiate the conduct of the deputy deputy deputy. The term of office of Mr Tomislav Ćorić, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament at today's meeting, respected the written request of MP Tomislav Ćorić, to put his term of office on hold in view of the behaviour of the Minister of Labour and Pension System of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is incompatible with the behaviour of the agent's office within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Union has designated Ivan Celic as deputy representative of Tomislav Ćoric. Following this unanimous mandate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a Decision on the stand-off of MPs and the start of acting as deputy deputy deputies. Also, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament at today's session discussed the written request of MP Damir Krstic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Defence which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Union has appointed Blazenko Boban as deputy representative of Damir Krsticevic. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a Decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and on the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Milan Kujundzic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his term of office at rest because of the behaviour of the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duty within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Union has appointed Dragica Roscic as deputy representative Milan Kujundzic. Following this unanimous proposal, we propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative's office. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Goran Maric, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his parliamentary mandate at rest because of the behaviour of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the duties of representatives within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. HDZ has appointed Matu Cička as deputy representative of Goran Maric. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy MPs. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed the written request of MP Ivan Penava, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate in a standstill on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 20 October 2016 The HDZ has appointed Marijana Balic as the deputy representative of Ivan Penava. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the representative's representative's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy MP. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed the written request of MP Drazen Milinkovic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his mandate to rest on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 20 October 2016 HDZ has designated Davor Milicevic as deputy representative of Drazen Milinkovic. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy MPs. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Ivan Kovacic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his parliamentary mandate on hold for the conduct of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Administration which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. MOST Independent Lists MOST was designated by Maru Kristic as deputy representative of Ivan Kovačić. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy MPs. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic on the behaviour of the parliamentary office, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 19 October 2016, the minister's office in the government of the Republic of Croatia had ceased his incompatibility with the exercise of his duties. The Commission found that the stay of the mandate of Zlatko Hasabegovic started on 14 October 2016 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and that the parliamentary duty of deputy MPs began to act on the same day as Sanda Kulic Makar. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative and the termination of the term of office of deputy representative with a date of 27 October. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Darko Horvat on the behaviour of the parliamentary office from 19 October 2016, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the minister's duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia had ceased to be incompatible with his duties with the exercise of the parliamentary duties. The Commission also established that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Darko Horvato began on 14 October 2016 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and that the deputy deputy MP's office began acting on the same day by Nikolina Babic. Since Darko Horvat is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions had been laid down by law, and that the stay of the parliamentary term ended on the eighth day of the application, and that the same day ceased the conduct of the duties of deputy deputy MP Nikola Babic. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy deputy representative from 27 October 2016. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Anton Kleman on the conduct of the parliamentary office from 19 October 2016, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the minister's duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia had ceased to be incompatible with his duties in the exercise of his duties. The Commission found that the suspension of Anton Kleman's parliamentary mandate began on 14 October 2016 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and that the parliamentary duty of deputy MPs began to act on the same day by Monica Udovicic. How Anton Kleman is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions had been laid down by law, and that the stay of the representative's term of office had ceased on the eighth day since the day of the application, and the same day had ceased the conduct of the duties of deputy representative Monica Udovic. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative and the termination of the term of office of deputy deputy representative on 27 October 2016. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Mira Kovac on the behaviour of the parliamentary office from 19 October 2016, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 19 October 2016, the minister's office in the Government of the Republic of Croatia had ceased to be incompatible with his duties with the exercise of representation. On 14 October 2016, the Commission established that the suspension of the parliamentary term of office of Miri Kovacu started because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and that the deputy deputy MP's office began acting on the same day by Martin Baricevic. How Miro Kovac is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit laid down the conditions laid down by law, and the stay of the parliamentary term ended 8 days after the day of submission of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of deputy representative Martin Baricevic. The following committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy MPs on 27 October 2016. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 3rd session held on 19 October 2016 a statement on the resignation of representative Natko Felbar to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 19 October 2016. The commission found that Natko Felbar started acting as deputy deputy representative on 14 October 2016 instead of elected representative of Vlaha Orepic. Most Independent Lists Most pursuant to Article 42(2). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Davor Romic as Deputy Representative to the Government of Orepic. Following this committee, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of the deputy representative and to initiate the conduct of the deputy representative's office on 19 October 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u747	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Here's Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u748	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. I suggest that since we have in the agenda two laws concerning the parliamentary duties to prescribe that it is not incompatible to be a minister in the technical government and a representative until a new government is elected. So that people who are there for a few days don't have to meet the property card, they don't have to have all those bans that they have under the Law to prevent conflicts of interest and that this procedure is simplified and reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u749	We'll consider it. If there's no one else, I'll close the argument. Let's figure out the quorum first. Please. The quorum has been established, has 104 representatives present. I am voting on a proposal for all decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. I find that, unanimously with all 106 MPs, a decision has been made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'd like to inform the esteemed MPs and MPs that the session is being held tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the established agenda. The first item tomorrow will be the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z.BR.11. Thank you. Session interrupted at 21.40 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Before we move on to the debate according to the agenda, MPs who are starting to act today will be sworn in. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall, by name, convene the representatives and the representatives. The MPs, when called, stand up and say "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Marijana Balić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u751	I'm writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u752	Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u753	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u754	Thank you very much. I congratulate the MPs and the representative on the sworn oath, and I wish success in carrying out an honorable and responsible duty. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs have established an addition to the agenda. Moving to the next point is the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u756	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 4th session held on 2 November 2016, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Branimir Glavas, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he would put his representative mandate to rest on the date of 2 November 2016 and on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja HDSSB pursuant to Article 42(3). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed the Master of Science, Josip Salapic, as deputy representative. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Branimir Glavas's mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy representative Josip Salapic. The following committee is unanimously with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the stay of MPs' mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 2 November 2016, Mr Branimir Glavas's representative's term of office begins. Deputy Deputy Representative Josip Salapic's representation under Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Parliament determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u757	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, who's in favour? The vote is over. I find it unanimous with 118 votes to take the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item on the agenda is: - Elections, appointments and resolutions; I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a Decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u759	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament to the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament are proposed for President Grozdana Perić, Vice-President Davor Bernardić, members Tomislav Ćorić, Branko Hrg, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Drazen Milinković, Robert Janković, Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, Branko Grčić, Gordan Maras, Boris Lalovac, Bozica Makar and Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u760	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs for the selection of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. Please engage. Let's vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that with 111 votes for, 6 abstentions and 1 MP against the decision being made as proposed by the Committee. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs for the next decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u761	The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament proposes for President Arsen Bauk, Vice-President Marija Jelkovac, members Marko Šimić, Željko Raguž, Ivan Šipić, Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Stevo Culej, Marko Vučetić, Peđa Grbin, Marta Luc-Polanc, Nada Turina-Đurić and Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u762	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to vote on the proposal of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. Please turn it on. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 112 in favour, 4 abstentions and 2 against decisions made by the Committee. I'd like to ask the next motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u763	In the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, they are proposed for President Goran Marić, Vice President Nenad Stazić, for members Andrija Mikulić, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, andro Krstulović Opara, Recajmil Varda, Veljko Kajtazi, Hrvoje Runtić, Damir Tomić, Darko Parić, Bojan Glavasevic and Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u764	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that with 111 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 2 against decisions made as proposed by the Committee. I would like to ask the President of the Committee for the next proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u765	They are proposed for President Tulio Demetlik, Vice-President Vladimir Bilek, for members Branko Juričev-Martinčev, Josip Boris, Branko Hrg, Tomislav Klaric, Mato Franković, Tomislav Panenić, Damir Mateljan, Marko Vesligaj, Ivan Klarin and Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u766	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. Please engage. Let's vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that most of the votes were 109 for, 6 abstentions and 2 against the MPs, as proposed by the Committee. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee for a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Board for the selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u767	It is proposed that members of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Damir Felak, Josip Križanić and Tomislav Klaric be resolved. And that Ljubica Maksimčuk, Angelko Stričak, Miro Totgergeli, Vlatko Kopić and Željka Josic are proposed for the members of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u768	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for, 6 abstentions and 2 against decisions made as proposed by the board. I would like the chairman of the Committee for the next proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u769	The Committee proposes that the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Antonija Rimac Gelo, be dismissed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u770	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs to resolve the chair of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that most of the votes are 115 in favour, 2 abstentions and none against the decision made as tabled by the board. I'm asking the chairman of the board for the next draft decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u771	The Committee suggests that the president of the Croatian Parliament's Office be named Petra Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u772	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs on the appointment of the Head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Please engage, we vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that most of the votes were 108 for, 6 abstentions and 1 against the MPs made the decision as proposed by the Committee on the appointment of the Head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs and deputies continue the session tomorrow at 11pm with a point of two today's agenda on HRT. I ask the presidents of the working bodies to hold a hearing tomorrow from their jurisdiction so that they can work uninterruptedly tomorrow. Thank you. Session adjourned at 17.25 p.m. The next item is - Selection, appointments and resolutions of the President of the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a decision. Just before the board president shows up, I'd like to ask if it's possible that we're not going with the individual, but that we go all the way in the package, if the MPs agree. Representative Peja Gbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u774	Your Honor, Mr. President, two weeks ago, on the very day of Parliament's constitution, you made one big mistake. So then you decided to vote on the three committees of the Croatian Parliament at the same time and at the same time we voted on the appointment of the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Legislatives. It is possible to conduct a united debate which should know about several proposed agenda points, but you must vote on each item individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u775	That's why I offered Parliamentarians the opportunity. I accept and will go individually. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u776	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome you and all your colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the second session held on 27 October 2016 submitted the following proposals to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of presidents, the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Miroslav Šimić, and for the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by the doctor of science Robert Podolnjak. A member of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Ante Sanader is hereby dismissed, and the members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Siniša Hajdas Dončić and Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u777	We'll vote individually. You unite this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u778	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members, the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament Damir Felak and Mladen Karlić be resolved, and that the members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament should be elected: Maro Kristic, Marija Jelkovac and Davor Miličević. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the EU Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament proposes for President Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Vice-Presidents Tomislav Sauch and Franjo Lucic. For members of science doctor Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, Hrvoje Zekanovic, Marija Balić, Ivan Celić, Dr Miro Kovač, Dr Drago Prgomet, Dr Robert Podolnjak, Doctor Vesna Pusić, Josko Klisović, Peđa Grbin, Sinisa Varga, Doctor Romana Jerkovic and Marin Škibola. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament is proposed: Dr. Miro Kovac, Vice-President Josko Klisovic, members: Gordan Jandroković, Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, Dr. Bozo Ljubic, Jasen Mesic, Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Marko Sladoljev, Dr. Vesna Pusić, Tomislav Saucha, Orsat Miljenić, Dr. Romana Jerkovic, Ivan Pernar. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, they are proposed for President Ranko Ostojić, Vice President Darko Milinović, for members: Miljan Brkić, Dr Miroslav Tudjman, Ante Sanader, Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Dr Ines Strenja Linić, Nikola Grmoja, Goran Beus Richembergh, Igor Dragovan, Predrag Matić, Milanka Opačić and Dr Branimir Bunjac. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament are proposed for President Igor Dragovan, Vice President Josip Djakić, members: Dr Drago Prgomet, Stevo Culej, Petar Škorić, Ivan Anušić, Mladen Karlić, Miro Bulj, Ivan Vrdoljak, Zdravko Ronko, Joško Klisović, Ana Comparić Devčić and Franko Vidović. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. Members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Drazen Milinković and Branko Hrg are hereby dismissed. For members of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament are proposed: Anton Kliman, Dragica Rosčić, Damir Felak. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament proposes for President Darinko Kosor, Vice-President Michael Zmajlović, for the members of the magistrate Miro Totgergeli, Franjo Lucic, Darko Horvat, Damir Felak, Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, Tomislav Panenić, Ivan Vrdoljak, Siniša Varga, Joško Klisović and Saša Đujic. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For the president, dr. Branko Grcic, Vice President Ljubica Ambrusec. For members Anton Kliman, Dragica Rosčić, Josip Borić, Mato Franković, Ivan Kirin, Petar Škorić, Marija Puh, Ivan Klarin, Mario Habek, Sabina Glasovac. Proposal for a Decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Furio Radin, for Vice President Ana Comparić Devčić. For the members of Bruno Esih, Ljubica Lukačić, Drazen Barisic, Hrvoje Runtic, Vladimir Bilek, Robert Janković, Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Veljko Kajtazi, Mile Horvat, Boris Milosevic, Ermina Lekay Prlaskaj, Bojan Glavasevic, Domagoj Hajduković. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members on the selection of members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Šipić is dismissed, and Davor Milicevic and Igor Dragovan are proposed for members of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Miranda Mrsic, for Vice President Željko Lackovic. For members Ljubica Lukačić, Josip Djakić, Ivan Kirin, Mladen Karlić, Boris Milosevic, Davor Romić, Silvano Hrelja, Saša Djujic, Damir Tomić, Predrag Matić and Marko Vesligaj. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Ines Strenja-Linić, for Vice President Siniš Varg. For members of Darko Milinović, academician Željko Reiner, Vlatko Kopić, Ljubica Lukačić, Recajmir Varda, Marko Sladoljev, Bernarda Topolko, Dr. Željko Jovanovic, Ana Komaraić Devčić, Dr. Romana Jerkovic and Ivan Pernar. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Nada Turina-Đuric, Vice President Miro Bulj. For members Vesna Bedeković, Ivan Šipić, Željka Josić, Mato Čičak, Blaženko Boban, Hrvoje Zekanović, Ana Komaraić Devčić, Tomislav Žagar, Sabina Glasovac and Marin Škibola. Proposal for a Decision on the election of presidents and members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament is proposed as president of Dr. Bozo Ljubic. For members of Miljan Brkić, Željko Raguž, Dr. Andrija Mikulić, Mato Čičak, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Miroslav Šimić, Darko Parić, Domagoj Hajduković, Marta Luc-Polanc, Tomislav Žagar. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, they are proposed for President Ivan Anušić, Vice-President Dr. Branimir Bunjac. For members Josip Djakić, Bruno Esih, Miljan Brkić, Željko Lackovic, Miro Bulj, Hrvoje Runtic, Nenad Stazic, Dr. Željko Jovanovic, Zdravko Ronko, Franco Vidovic. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament is elected president of Anka Mrak-Taritaš, Vice-President Josip Boric. For the members of Pero Ćosić, Davor Lončar, Blaženko Boban, Mr. Miro Totgergeli, Darinko Dumbovic, Tomislav Panenić, Zdravko Ronko, Vedran Babić, Franco Vidović. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament, they are proposed for President Gordan Maras, Vice-President Dr. Josip Križanić. For members Drazen Barišić, Darko Horvat, Branko Bačić, Ante Sanader, Hrvoje Zekanović, Ljubica Ambrusec, Marija Puh, Mihael Zmajlović, Damir Mateljan and Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Vice-President and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Andro Krstulović Opar, Vice-President Sabina Glasovac. For the members of Dr. Goran Dodig, academician Zeljko Reiner, Dr. Zlatko Hasanbegović, Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Dr. Marko Vučetić, Marko Sladolev, Dr. Miranda Mrsic, Dr. Željko Jovanovic, Bojan Glavasevic, Veljko Katazi, Dr. Branimir Bunjac. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed that Dr. Davor Romic, for Vice President Domagoj Hajdukovic. For the members of Dr. Josip Križanić, Branko Hrg, Franjo Lucić, Mile Horvat, Vladimir Bilek, Ljubica Ambrusec, Milorad Batinić, Damir Tomic and Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Croatian Parliament is being proposed for President Branko Juričev-Martinchev, Vice-President Damir Mateljan. For members Marijana Balić, Grozdana Perić, Mile Horvat, Darinko Dumbović, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandrić, Maro Kristić, Milorad Batinić, Siniša Varga, Stjepan Kovač and others. Branko Greek. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament, it proposes, for President Pero Ćosić, for Vice-President Vedran Babić, for members: Josip Boris, Tomislav Klaric, Petar Škorić, Branko Bačić, Miro Bulj, Nikola Grmoja, Bernarda Topolko, Tomislav Žagar, Darko Parić, Marko Vesligaj, Saša Đujic. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Ana Komaric Devčić is hereby dismissed and Stjepan Kovač is proposed as a member of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament proposes, for President Zdravko Ronko, members: dr. Zlatko Hasanbegović, Zarko Tušek, Vlatko Kopić, Vesna Bedeković, Davor Lončar, Hrvoje Runtić, Orsat Miljenić, Vedran Babić, Mario Habek. Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and vice-president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament is proposed, for President Siniša Hajdas Doncic, and for Vice-President Darko Horvat. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and the termination of the term of office of president and the selection of members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. Jasen Mesic is proposed for the chairman of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 19 October 2016, the president of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Dr. Goran Maric for holding the parliamentary mandate. Davor Bernardić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. Ivan Vilibor Sincic, Vice-President Dr. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. For members: Vesna Bedeković, Ljubica Lukačić, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Majda Burić, Marija Balić, Ljubica Ambrusec, Silvano Hrelja, Marija Puh, Sinisa Hajdas Dončić, Sinisa Varga, etc. Romana Jerkovic. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of vice presidents and the selection of members of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Assembly. The post of Vice-President of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Bilek is hereby resolved, and Boris Milosevic is proposed as vice-president of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Stjepan Kovac is proposed. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament Domagoj Hajduković is hereby dismissed and Gordan Maras is proposed as a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. For the President of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, Dr. Zeljko Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy in the ranks of MPs, is proposed by Angelko Strac. For members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the following are proposed: Majda Buric, Milorad Batinić and Damir Tomic. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, is proposed as Head of Mato Frankovic, for members: Anton Kliman, Jasen Mesic, Deputy Members of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Dr. Robert Dolnjak. The proposal for a decision to appoint a leader and members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is proposed as head of Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, for members: Dr. Miro Kovac and Dr. Furio Radin. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Cooperation Organisation is proposed as head of Dr. Milorad Pupovac, a member of the academics Željko Reiner, as deputy member Petar Škorić. The proposal for a decision to appoint a member and deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative is proposed as a member of Darko Horvat, a deputy member of Ljubica Ambrusec. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member and deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, Dragica Rosčić, a member of Grozdana Peric, is proposed for the deputy members: dr. Zlatko Hasanbegović and Dr. Ines Strenja-Linić. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, Blaženko Boban is proposed. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member and alternate members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly shall be proposed as a member of Dr. Marko Vučetic, for the deputy members: Majda Burić and Mladen Karlić. Proposal for a decision on the election of vice presidents and members of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union is proposed for Vice-President Maro Kristic, for members: Ivan Šipić, Marijana Balic and Ivan Čelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u779	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the HSS Representatives' Club and their representative representative, Krešo Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u780	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party have been thinking a little bit about these committees. Now Mr. Sanader has read very, very many names here. Those names go to certain functions, certain fees go, and we have decided on behalf of all our representatives on boards, waive all fees that go with it. So I'm calling my colleagues and my colleagues... There's a fee, there is, for the president's seat. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We invite all colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ, from the SDP, from the Most, from the IDS, from the Living Wall to do the same and to give up all fees for humanitarian purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u781	Honorable MPs and MPs, I'd like to ask if we can continue. I'd like to ask for some peace. The representative who reported for the replica is representative Ana-Marija Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u782	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague, Mr. Beljak, you mentioned that there are fees for working in bodies, parliamentary bodies, so I'm interested in who gets the fees for this work, what are the fees for the people of the Republic of Croatia to hear how much it costs them and how much work on the council boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u783	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u784	Thank you very much. So the problem is that no one absolutely consulted us about anything and that we as parliamentary representatives have no answers to that information. So I will ask, above all, President-in-Office of the Parliament to report to the public but also to those who are the fees, what are the obligations of the parliamentary representatives, or members of those committees. Well, all kinds of stories go, so tell us, tell the whole public. That's the first thing. The other thing is, I have to protest that we haven't been consulted about anything at all. You moved us without asking us to this place. No problem, we can sit anywhere, but someone should have asked us if you wanted to sit here. You've given us rooms that are less than the presidents of certain committees, so that's a few things. I ask that we be given clarifications and I pray to Mr Petrov who has promised greater democracy to consult not only the parliament presidency in the future, but also the presidents of other parties' clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u785	I'd like to thank Agent Whitey. The next club of representatives who reported for participation in the debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, Club Representative Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u786	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to do the truth here in this House and also to tell the public that there was an agreement on the distribution of presidential and vice-presidential seats in the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the number of MPs who have opted to support the government and those who have declared themselves to be ruling in this 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, they have agreed with the representatives of the opposition the number and key of the distribution of individual presidential and vice-presidential posts in all working bodies, so on committees, in the National Council for Monitoring the Strategy for Anti-Corruption and in delegations, which we have just heard on the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Appointing. According to what was agreed in the conversation, it is that representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will be participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament as an opposition. And therefore, we, the political parties that have declared themselves to represent the ruling in the Croatian Parliament, have agreed between us, so between the Croatian Democratic Community and the Most, the Milan Bandic party 365 and the Reformists and the National Minorities, we have defined the presidential and vice-presidential places. After that, we were told by the HSS that they could not participate in the presidential and vice-presidential seats in that section belonging to the opposition. We are in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community and after that were prepared from our quota, so the quotas of the Croatian Democratic Community leave to the Croatian peasant party a corresponding number according to the number of representatives and representations here in the Croatian Assembly one of the vice-presidential seats. But for this reason, as you can see, the Croatian Democratic Community Club did not propose all those vice-presidential places that belonged to it and left the possibility and subsequently that the Croatian Peasant Party club should be included in the work of these committees in the account and in the quota of the Croatian Democratic Community. As far as the Croatian Democratic Community Club is concerned, we are very conscious, in line with the good parliamentary practice that existed here in this Croatian Assembly and after the HSS Club has determined that the opposition in the Croatian Parliament will be ready to give way to the Croatian Peasant Party club one of the vice-presidential places that would come from the Croatian Democratic Community quota. That's how much, I think it was necessary to say that because of the complete truth of how the agreement on the formation of the working bodies ran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u787	Representative Kresho Beljak is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u788	Thank you very much Mr. Bačić, thank you for the help HDZ HSSU has been providing for many years, I hope it will continue to be so. Thank you for finally expressing the fact that HSS is an opposition party. And thank you to Mr Hasanbegovic for warning me of this guide for MPs in which he writes nicely that the pay rights, therefore not for the fee but for the increased salary, also have the presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament with a higher, therefore increased coefficient and vice presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. I repeat, I call upon you all who are appointed or who will be appointed to give up that remainder on the payroll for humanitarian purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u789	I'd like to thank the representative. Reply to the replica, MP Bačić. I'd like a representative of the Sauch, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u790	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Beljak, it seems to me that the HSS club has identified where it belongs in this House. We intended on your proposal, so it wasn't our proposal, but the proposal that came from the HSS Club to give up a place for members and representatives of your party in the working bodies. And on that trail was the deal to give you a vice president's seat. Therefore, this initiative was launched by the HSS, and later you gave up, and immediately before the meeting of the Selection and Appointing Committee. Therefore, there is absolutely no need to apologize or further explain, but merely to indicate how things are going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u791	I'd like to thank Agent Bačić. The next club of representatives who reported for participation in the debate is the HNS-HSU club. Their representative representative, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u792	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of fact, for the sake of truth, for the sake of Croatian citizens, there are coefficients regarding the president, vice president of the parliamentary boards, and also the club president, so there is no fee. Furthermore, as regards the distribution of seats in committees and functions on committees or presidential committees, it was always a custom, this was my third convocation and it always worked independently which political option was in position, which was in opposition. It's a practice for the presidents of the strongest clubs on one side and on the other, to meet, to agree, to share, I think, what a few of them were already called together, and it's always respected. However, we are also aware that each of us here must identify which side belongs to. As much as I could read your club, Mr. Whitey was in position. And here you now clearly president of the club Mr. Bacic offered to include you let's go talk. Well, you can't be in one chair a little bit on the other chair. So it's up to you to make up your mind about it and I'm unfortunately not inclined to do this right now, but I have to realize that this kind of populism just doesn't feel right and that it's not right for all of us other colleagues and colleagues who are sitting here. Sit down with your colleague Bačić, make a deal, but you can't look for anything on either side. It's simply because parliamentary practice is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u793	I thank Representative Batinić. Replica was reported by representative Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u794	Thank you very much, Mr. Batinich. No one as president of the HSS club called me anywhere, nor did Mr. Bacic, he contacted some of our members, but he didn't call me. I guess someone should have called me to make a point that's very clear to the whole public. They didn't even ask us when we were being moved here, so I don't know what that meant. But we will do well by voting in the future to show clearly which side we belong to, but it does not change anything on our request that I ask you to support, to give up that rest for charity purposes. It has absolutely nothing to do with pulsism. Well, come on, you've got enough pay, and then give up that part of the fee or surplus for humanitarian purposes. That's all we're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u795	Thank you. Representative Batinić responds to the replica. Dear MPs and MPs I would really beg for a little peace to continue, that we could move on to other points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u796	Thank you very much, thank you, President. Namely, my colleague, Beljak, was not my intention to discuss it at all. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are very clear, unequivocal as regards rights, duties, obligations, you would not want to get me wrong, but read the Rules of Procedure, that is the first. The second thing, as far as talking to my colleague Bačić, I'll repeat what I said you chose in the government's confidence vote that you were a position and by the logic of things you should have talked to the position club. Furthermore, as far as these fees are concerned, it means once again that some of the Parliament's professional services are familiar with you means that there are no fees for working on boards regardless of the function. Let us try to understand and understand this, it is nothing complicated but reading the Rules of Procedure and need to be informed in the services of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u797	I thank Representative Batinić. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is MP Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u798	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I actually have an appeal taught by the experience of the last term when the entire council didn't choose outside board members. So that committees work in quality, there are outside members, and the council, the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Control Strategy, the check cannot even work because the external members represent the majority. I would therefore ask you to ask your authority to open a tender for all external members by next week to be elected as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u799	Thank you. That proposal will be considered. If there is no further discussion, I will conclude the debate. We move to a single vote on each decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and election of the president, the resolution of the members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament as proposed. Let's vote. I'm closing the vote. With 115 votes in favour and 3 votes against accepted and a proposal adopted. Next proposal, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members, the election of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. According to the motion, I am voting. The vote is over. With 115 votes in favour and 4 against the motion for a decision, it was adopted. The next proposal for a decision is on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on the European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. We vote according to the proposed vote. The vote is over. I find that most with 116 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision taken as proposed by the board. The next proposal is a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Let's vote as proposed. The vote is over. With a majority of 114 votes in favour and 4 against, the majority means a decision made as proposed by the board. The next proposal for a decision to vote is a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote on the day of the proposal. The vote is over. With most votes, 116 for, 4 against, most votes were decided by the board. The next proposal for a decision is the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 115 for, 2 abstentions and 4 against the adopted decision as proposed by the board. The next proposal for a decision is on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. With 115 votes in favour and 4 against most votes, a decision was made as proposed by the board. The next proposal is a decision on the resolution, selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like the MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. With 117 votes in favour, four against the decision was made as proposed by the board. The next proposal for a decision is a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like the MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. The majority of MPs 117 for and 4 against the decision was made as proposed by the committee. The next proposal is a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With a majority of 114 votes in favour and 5 against, a decision was made as proposed by the board. The next proposal is a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the MPs to vote on the proposal. The vote is over. With 112 votes in favour, one abstention and 4 against the decision was made as proposed by the committee. The next proposal is a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the MPs to vote on the proposal. The vote is over. With 116 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision was made as proposed by the committee. The next proposal is a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the MPs to vote on the proposal. The vote is over. With 118 votes for, 4 against, a decision was made as proposed by the board. The next proposal is a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. With 113 votes in favour and 4 against, a decision was taken as proposed by the Committee. The next proposal is a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With 117 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision was made as proposed by the committee. The next proposal for a decision is a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia of the Croatian Parliament. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. With 116 votes in favour and 5 against, the decision was made as proposed by the board. The next is a proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice president and members of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With 115 votes in favour and 4 against, the decision was made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. I ask MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. With 112 votes to four, the decision was taken as proposed by the board. The next proposal for a Decision is on the selection of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With 117 votes in favour and 4 against, the decision was made as proposed by the board. The next is a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the esteemed deputies to vote on the proposed proposal. The vote is over. With 116 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision was made as proposed by the committee. The next is a proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote on the day of the proposal. The vote is over. With 115 votes in favour and 4 against, the decision was made as proposed by the board. The next is a proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. With 114 votes in favour and 4 against, the decision was made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 115 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision was made as proposed by the committee. The next is the proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of members of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the MPs to vote on the proposal. The vote is over. With 116 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision was made as proposed by the committee. The next is a proposal for a Decision on the election of presidents and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With 115 votes in favour and 4 against, the decision was made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision to elect the president and vice-president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. The vote ended with 116 votes in favour and 4 against the decision proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision on the election of the president and the termination of the term of office of the chairman of the Committee for the selection of members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with a majority of 117 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with a majority of 117 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of vice-presidents and the selection of members of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with a majority of 117 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the esteemed deputies to vote on the proposal. The vote ended with a majority of votes, 117 for and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice-president and members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with 115 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 5 against the decision made as proposed by the committee. The next is the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the heads, members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with 109 votes for, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision to appoint leaders and members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with 115 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. After that, the proposal for a decision on the selection of leaders, members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with 112 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a member and deputy member of the Croatian Assembly in the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with 117 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision to appoint a host, member and deputy members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. I ask the esteemed deputies to vote. The vote ended with 116 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. It is also the day of the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Let's vote on the proposal. The vote ended with a majority of 115 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. The next is the proposal for a decision to appoint a member and alternate members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly. Please, let's vote. The vote ended with 115 votes in favour and 4 against the decision made as proposed by the board. And the last proposal for a decision is on the selection of vice presidents and members of the Executive Board of the Croatian National Group at the Interparliamentary Union. Please vote on the day of the proposal. The vote ended with 117 votes in favour and 4 against, a decision was made as proposed by the board. I thank the esteemed MPs and MPs. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the session with a vote on the debated points. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum so that we can make the right decision. The first item is choice, appointment and resolution. I ask the President of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u801	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Board for the selection and appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament submits proposals to the Croatian Parliament: a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee. A member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee, Milorad Batinić, is proposed and Goran Aleksic is elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u802	I'm opening a debate. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u803	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. So I will repeat what I did two weeks ago, and I will repeat that until a competition is opened for the external members of the board of parliament, especially for the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-corruption Strategy, which has a majority in the ranks of external members and cannot begin work. I therefore appeal to you to open a tender as soon as possible for external members of all parliamentary committees and other working bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u804	I would like to thank Agent Jovanovic. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. I find that most votes are 115 in favour, 3 against and without abstentions, as proposed by the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u805	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament for a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Dr Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u806	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. With 117 votes in favour, without abstentions and 3 against the decision was made as proposed by the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u807	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Anka Mrak-Taritaš is proposed for a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u808	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. I am concluding a vote with 118 votes in favour, with no abstentions and 3 against a decision has been made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u809	Proposal for a Decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament. For the vice-president of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament, Ivica Misic is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u810	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I am concluding a vote with 118 votes in favour, without abstentions and 4 against a decision was made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u811	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of vice-presidents and the selection of members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, Dr Zlatko Hasanbegović, is hereby dismissed. Dr Zlatko Hasanbegovic is proposed for the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Presentations and Appeals. Mato Čičak is proposed as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u812	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the motion for a Decision on the discharge of the members and the election of the Vice-President and the election of a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With the majority of votes for 119, no abstentions and 3 against, a decision was made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u813	Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Josip Boric, be dismissed, and Dr Andrija Mikulić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u814	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With a majority of 114 votes for, without abstentions and 4 against, I find that a decision has been made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u815	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Vice-President, resolution and selection of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. Darko Paric is proposed as vice president of the Croatian Parliament's Mandate-Immunity Commission. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Klarin is hereby dismissed and Ivan Pernar is proposed as a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u816	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the election of the Vice-President, the resolution and election of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With most votes for 118, without abstentions and 3 against, a decision was made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u817	Proposal for a decision to appoint members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is being proposed for members: Goran Beus-Richembergh, Domagoj Hajdukovic. For the deputy members: Orsat Milenić, Gordan Maras, Mihael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u818	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. With most votes for 117, one abstention and three against, I find that a decision has been made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u819	Proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy head and member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, they are proposed: as deputy leader of Doctor Romana Jerkovic, and as a member of Dr Nenad Stazic Excuse me. [[- Doctor?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u820	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint a deputy head and member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 118 in favour, one abstention and three against the decision being made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u821	Proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. The Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union proposes: for President Sasa Djujic, a member of Dr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u822	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of president and member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes of 118 are for, without abstentions and 3 against the decision being made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u823	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation is proposed: for the member Michael Zmajlović, for the deputy members of Doctors Romana Jerkovic and Nada Turina Đurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u824	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Croatian Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 118 for, without abstentions and with 3 against the decision being made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u825	Proposal for a decision to appoint a member and alternate member of the Croatian Parliament delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, the following are proposed: for member Ivan Klarin, deputy member of Dr. Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u826	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint a member and deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes of 117 are for, one abstention and three against the decision made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u827	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a leader, member and alternate member of the Croatian Parliament delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative, they are proposed to be the leader of the Peđa Grbin, a member of Damir Mateljan, a deputy member of Mihael Zmajlović. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Sabina Glasovac is proposed as a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u829	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote 119 is for, without abstentions and 3 against the decision being made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u830	Proposal for a decision to appoint leaders and members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the SCP Parliamentary Assembly. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the SCP Parliamentary Assembly proposes: for the leader Predrag Matic, a member of Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u831	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a head and member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the SECPA. Please, let's vote. The vote is final. With 118 votes for, without abstentions and 3 against, a decision was made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u832	Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science. For members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Awards for Science from the order of prominent scientific staff, the following are proposed: academician Željko Reiner, Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly, Doctor Nina Obulen Kožinek, Minister of Culture, Academician Zvonko Kusić, HAZU, professor, Dr Davor Romić, Faculty of Agriculture, Professor Dr. Nedeljko Perić, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing at the University of Zagreb, Professor, Doctor Dr. Amir Hamzić, Professor of Emeritus Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics of the University of Zagreb, Professor, Doctor Maria Stefania Antica, Institute of Ruđer Bošković, Professor, Dr. Roko Andričević, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Architecture and Geodesion of the University of Split, Professor of Split, Professors, Doctor Stipan Jonjić, Faculty of the University of the University of Rijeci, Professor of the University of the University of Guberac, Prof.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u833	I'm opening a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u834	... appointing members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science. [[Speech is not enabled.]] However, here on behalf of the promoters I expected at least an apology to all scientists and researchers and money in the Republic of Croatia because precisely because of the fact that eight months after the end of the term of office to the old members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Prizes for Science and not the appointment of new ones who come to the benches of representatives for the first time in history, we have the situation that the state awards for science have not been awarded despite the fact that the funds in the budget have been secured in the amount of one million kuna and despite the fact that a tender has already been held in December 2015. I think that the Republic of Cyprus, Romania and Latvia singles out the least resources for science in the Republic of Croatia and with these small funds we have really people in the scientific research system who, with little resources, manage to achieve exceptional achievements, popularize science and give one added value not only to the development of science but also to society as a whole, I think it's not good that after we've had a scandal, so I'm going to say with the "Luka Ritz" Prize not being awarded, which is the same way after the media made unfortunately a scandal because these are scandals we are in a situation that only when the truth is discovered that we are then responding. Here's what I'm going to take advantage of, so I'm going to apologize to all the scientists in the Republic of Croatia on behalf of all of us MPs, although I'm not responsible for it, which, despite the awards, has not yet been carried out. And I think you should apologize, too, because you're the most responsible for not finding these proposals on the benches of an attorney for eight months.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u835	Thank you, counsel. I'm closing the debate. I submit to the proposal a decision appointing members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science. Please, let's vote. The vote is final. With the majority of the 116 votes, four abstentions and no objections, a decision was made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u836	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. The State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters is proposed for the president: Tomislav Panenic, for members: dr. Josip Križanić, Josip Djakić, Robert Jankovic, Marta Luc Polanc, Marko Veseljigaj, Anka Mrak Taritas, Jasmina Dejanović member from the Ministry of Finance, Miljenko Rakić member from the Ministry of Agriculture, Bozica Marković member from HGK, Krešimir Frančić member from insurance companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-17-0.u837	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision appointing the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. Please, let's vote. The vote is final. I find that most of the votes 113 are for, without abstentions and 3 against, a decision has been made as proposed by the board. I thank the board president. I warmly welcome you all! Here you go.
