ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u111	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Dialogue Initiative, I request a 15-minute break. It's about the debate now that we can call it "the SOA case". We're witnessing that the President of the Republic signed a Decision on the discharge of SOA Directors almost a week ago so at this point we don't know if we really have a Director of Security Intelligence. At this point, our agency is without civil, parliamentary and professional supervision. At this point, we have different information when we talk about a possible violation of the law by SOA Director who believes that he has violated the law to the Deputy Prime Minister and also the head of the coalition partner who considers that the law has not been violated. ... And I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can finish it, then you'll finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u112	Yeah, but you're supposed to say all that later. We understand what you want to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u113	Yeah, but I don't have the two minutes in which I have to explain why I'm looking for a break? They took it. Well, a lot has changed in the last 10 years in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u114	All sorts of things. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u115	Dear Mr. President, I am asking for a break on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners and the independent list of Stipe Petrin in order to tell the Croatian public something about the problems faced by Croatian pensioners who receive pensions from abroad, i.e. the tax administration's actions against those 200 thousand pensioners. I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u116	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u117	The SDP club is also looking for a break on the first topic, a topic presented by Mr Prgomet. We believe that national security is at risk, and the people who carry out the most state-owned duties are ridiculed, which is reason enough for us to report here at the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u118	Dear Representative Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. For the same reasons, the HNS club is looking for a break, as counterpart Stazic stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u120	Thank you. Dear Representative Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u121	The HDZ Club is looking for both points of rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u122	Thank you. And a respected representative of the Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u123	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u124	Thank you very much. Here, that would... Can I help you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The MOST Club and go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u125	The Honorable President on behalf of the Club of Representatives HSLS-BUZ is also looking for a break on the SOA topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u126	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u127	On behalf of the HSP club, I'm also looking for a break for SOA.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u128	Thank you very much. I think that now all the clubs have been ordered to exist, so here's the break. Let's have it by 9.45. I'll see you here, thank you. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] First, he has the word of Honorable Representative Drago Prgomett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u130	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the result of the signing of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the decision to replace the Chiefs, the SOA Director is almost entirely predictable, as was unfortunately the predictable political situation that took place three months ago and we have witnessed a number of political turns, blackmail, the strange way of electing the prime minister. So all this is happening today, unfortunately, is only a logical sequence in the Croatian political theatre of absurdities, which unfortunately can end in political chaos. The SOA case, now we can really talk about the SOA case, was created the moment the President of the Republic signed the decision without apparently consulting the prime minister. This further undermines the authority of a man who is the strongest political position, the strongest political person, the authority that has been welcomed by this painfully controversial formation of the Croatian government. And in this game of thrones, apparently, the greatest loser with citizens is the silent prime minister, and during that time, the prime minister of the Most, the vice-president of the government, says he doesn't find any reason to replace the SOA chief. Did you say that because it has really accurate information about it or does it want to in some way prevent HDZ from taking complete control of the intelligence, intelligence system? And what is particularly important is that the public is not informed and above all we are not informed, we parliamentary deputies, and if it is impossible for us then it is certainly impossible for the public to know the truth and the truth is important because with a lot of ambiguity it is only clear that this procedure is causing enormous damage to the security agencies and intelligence services. This kind of procedure brings harm and danger to the Croatian state. This is also surprising to people who run intelligence agencies or care about the security sector of those countries with which we share joint associations. I don't think anyone should repeat the story of the Balkan Zion of Ilija Cvorevic in today's democratic Croatia. That's why it's important, it's true because at this point over intelligence agencies there's no parliamentary, no civilian, no professional supervision remains just to rely on the professionalism of people who do this and how will we believe in professionalism if you don't trust the first man and his professionalism? To the first man of this agency? Besides, the truth is important because this is about a man who may be getting an impious discharge and perhaps as he claims he's doing is honorably his job. If he gets a dishonest discharge, then not even a merciful act of pardon, I'm afraid it won't help. I believe that the truth would be revealed or at least part of the truth if we could get an answer to a few questions. First, on the basis of what reconnaissance has it been concluded that the principal broke the law? On what grounds does the Deputy Prime Minister conclude that there is no reason for the replacement of the SOA Director? If the law is broken, why didn't the prime minister sign a resolution decision? And if the law is broken, why isn't the whole process directed to the DORH? These aren't the only questions in the air we're hearing these days, but obviously they're not a problem of questions, but they're the problem with the answers because they're mostly kept quiet by those who are the most called actors in the whole case. And no one in this country, regardless of their position, has the right to ignore the public seeking answers. We know politics has the power especially by ruling, ministers are being replaced in non-democratic states, political opponents are being eliminated without democratic procedure, without the court of the public but we are Croatia, a democratic country. In democracies, politicians answer their jobs, answer public questions, answer questions of opposition, Parliament and all those who create public opinion and who create public policies. If that were not the case, we would not be able to talk about Croatia as a democratic country or about Croatia where the rule of law is. So I'm expecting answers, we're not interested in speculation, we're not interested in spin doctors' offices, we're not interested in paralyzers' offices, just facts and truth. They should show who no longer belongs in the security system and who in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u131	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken on behalf of HSU by the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u132	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the basic motive why I am speaking to the Croatian public here today from this pay phone is that more than 200 thousand calls have been sent to pensioners who receive their pension and part of their pension abroad from abroad within 8 days with a requirement to regulate their tax status. It would be no dispute if, that is, if it did not cause the crowd, it would not now create a panic because in the legal consequences of this letter, it says that if the pensioners did not do so within 8 days, they would be required to be late for the money in the amount of 2 thousand to 50 thousand kuna. Of course there's a lot of panic in this way. Of course, everyone has to resolve their tax status but not those whose tax status is resolved. Among the 200,000 of our citizens who are receiving pensions from Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Canada, their tax status is defined. They are taxpayers in Germany, Canada, Belgium and the Netherlands. So they're not taxpayers here. And this neatly tax administration of Germany communicates with our citizens and asks them if they receive part of Croatia's pension in addition to German pensions. If they receive feedback that they receive an orderly German tax system sums up these two pensions and if they were below 700 euros how much the untaxable amount in Germany can receive two, three, 2.3 euros in taxes paid in Germany. That is what it says in the interstate, in a social agreement between the two countries where in those four cases the tax is paid where pensions are made and not in the place of pensioners' residence. So these 100,000 people have a regulated tax status. The IRS argues that there was data exchange in tax administrations. I doubt that. Because if the IRS had come in here with a data exchange, then you'd know who's receiving and how much he's receiving. And by paralyzing two systems, the pension systems from Germany or Bosnia and Herzegovina and any of our pensions could directly determine the amount of taxes. That's exactly what the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute did in 2015. He received other than 4 countries 170 thousand data on the receipts of our citizens but only for his use, not for use, because the data owner did not give him a wider use of these data and did the job neatly so that there are 180 thousand such users have 10 complaints total on the payment of the Christmas card. Therefore, I suspect that the tax administration has received complete information and has no right to call in this way. I remember in 2007 and 2008 when a respected colleague, Shuker, refused to accept that income from abroad was income from Croatian citizens. They did. And it's important to report them. But it's not the same as tax status. Because income must be reported so that these people do not use other social benefits in Croatia. And then that's fine. You'll have a chance to explain, Mr. Shucker. So it's not the same. Here it is called for the definition of tax status and those whose tax status is defined. Therefore, I would say that this is heartless for Croatian pensioners, according to people who are in various health and mobile states that they are not pensioners because of the tax administration of the Republic of Croatia, but because of the pensioners of the Republic of Croatia, and that they must have tact and sensitivity to communicate with them individually in order to achieve the objectives prescribed by law. No one can and cannot run from the law, but with a little tact, with a little sensitivity, you have to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, the word will now be taken by the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u134	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. National security has been compromised and the country has been brought into a humiliating position. On the front pages of one newspaper, 8 months old lies are published that affect our Security Intelligence Agency, the agency that was founded to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. And the Vice-President of the Parliament is saying that Mr. Lozancic, the head of the intelligence community, was in contact with foreign intelligence services of the countries under the embargo without explaining to anyone what underground he got that information from, from which rat holes his informant came out. It's all humiliating the country and it's endangering national security. This threat to national security began when the President of the Republic without a legal basis signed the resolution of Mr. Lozancic's head of intelligence allegedly because she was injured because she was all following people under investigation, and then she fell into the scissors of those conversations that were recorded. But let's remember the inauguration of the president of the Republic, let's remember that bunch of criminal guys she called for her inauguration, those mobsters, those cocaine dealers, so I wouldn't be surprised that the president gets into the listening scissors every day if SOA keeps doing his job and keeps chasing criminals. We can or we can. We or we can, I speak for the club and don't take my time. [[Adversity President: A colleague, a colleague of the Stazic, I ask you to choose words when you speak.]] So we can either give up on persecuting criminals or the president giving up on his friends. The president objected to Lozancic for not informing her that he was checking on her. [[Adversity President: A fellow Stazic, I ask you to choose the words you are addressing.]] Mr. President, I speak here on behalf of the club. [[The President's intrusion: If you do not intend to pay attention to the President of the Parliament, then you are violating the Rules of Procedure.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This club has been chosen by 800,000 citizens How could I not? [[Breaking President: Yes, but you cannot address such words as the Assembly MPs.]] I'll keep going. I'll keep taking care of it. [[I warned you about it and asked you to take care of it. You kept talking like I wasn't here.]] The president objected that she was not informed of this. However, it should not have been notified because if Lozancic had informed her, he would have violated the obligation, a legal obligation to keep the proceedings secret. The confidentiality of the proceedings shall not be compromised. Mr. Lozancic has shown that he knows how to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you that his colleagues from the HDZ ranks who had acted before him, and Mr Karamarko also stood out in the capture of Gotovina and listening to journalists. That's true. ... National security is also at risk, as HDZ refuses to appoint SDP's proposal to the head of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security Ranko Ostojic, and Ranko Ostojic is a qualified person for the job. [[You can't hear it.]] He was the director of the police, he was the interior minister, he was in one of the mandates and the chairman of the committee. It has all European certificates for access to classified documents. The reason why Ranka Ostojic does not want to be accepted is very simple because it is about an inscrutable professional who would effectively oversee the secret services. HDZ is trying to avoid it. I now call from here my fellow representatives of the Most. Col. Ranko Ostojic invited them to talk to him if they wanted to. You can together, you can each in particular, see what kind of man he is and whether he is professional enough to behave this responsible duty. Now, why is all this done, why national security is being threatened, why is the state being embarrassed, why did the president throw her signature without prior consultations on the table to the Prime Minister, and now you sign it without any consultations, so humiliate him, to offend him. By humiliating the prime minister, the entire country is also humiliated. Why is it all done together? Because HDZ shows an undiscovered intention to put the repressive apparatus in its service, to achieve one police state, to deliver the threats that Mr. Karamarko has made in the campaign, that everyone within the four walls will be able to think what they want, but that only what HDZ allows to say, which he has threatened with the new Homeland War, will be able to announce a register of traitors. All this suggests that HDZ wants to use a repressive apparatus beyond any control against citizens, to use against system institutions, against media, against journalists. If this is not appointed to this committee, if it continues with this threat to national security and the shame of the SDP state, it will require national security to be one item of the agenda at the plenary session of this Assembly because we are responsible people and we cannot allow this further disgrace to the state and the threat of national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u135	Thank you very much. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's the first distinguished representative, Miro Bulj, to raise.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You, as chairman, have, means a Rules of Procedure that you must respect for all MPs. I've been telling you this for a while now that Article 232, I'm going to read it to you in full, so far I haven't. [[Intruder President: Can you tell me which article was injured?]] It means "The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda theme. If the speaker does not hold the agenda theme next time, the president will take away his word. In that case, the representative can no longer take part in the debate on this topic of the agenda." I would ask you to stick to this article of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, no matter who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u137	Thank you very much. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed, although the claims that are at least inappropriate to this House have been made. But everyone is responsible for what they say, and probably voters and voters are assessing who gives self-respect and who gives it to this entire House. Probably in a similar sense, he wants to intervene and a respected representative of Peja Grbin. He also raised his hand to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u138	I thank you, Mr. President. No, my remarks regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure are not the same as my colleagues, Bulja. I apologize for starting with these words, not by quoting the article. But you led me to it. So, I raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure for the reason that Article 238 was injured. This is the part relating to point 3 of that paragraph. It is that MPs must not interfere with their incursions or in any other way with the speaker. Mr. President, afterwards, you violated Article 239 because you did not give the MPs any notice if they were contrary to Article 238 of this Rules of Procedure. You had the need to warn your fellow Stazic that he is insulting in his speech and that is your right. I don't argue with that. But you should also have warned colleagues from your club, HDZ, that during the entire speech, Mr. Stazic was in violation of the Rules of Procedure by obtaining from his benches and distracting the speaker. Your Honor, Mr. President, I ask you to intervene in these situations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u139	Thank you very much, fellow coat of arms. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, but if you want me to do so I will start doing so, and then some of your papers that let's say are inclined to comment on how I'm threatening to take away the word of the people who are moving away from the subject. You are now insisting that we take away the word of people who are moving away from the subject and who are getting away from it. It's interesting how in some magazines, I repeat those who favor you, they accuse me of doing exactly that, because of the opposite. So let's decide then. I think I'm quite permissive and quite tolerant and to throw unfortunately both on the one hand and on the other very often in various debates. When they cross a certain number of decibels, I intervene to a certain number of decibels, I think it's part of parliamentaryism. Therefore, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. You can't rise again. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u141	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u142	Absolutely. I don't need to enable you to do this or not because you have the right to do it. Therefore, every time I estimate that no Rules of Procedure have been broken, you have the right of course to do so. And everyone else has a right to do it and you know it very well, and you've done this so little to see that you know it too. Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Maras. He's the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd be on the line, so 230th and 231st along with Mr. Grbin said 238. So, I ask you first to, and I am convinced that you will listen to me, in the future you are the president of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and to protect everyone in the same way, that you do not have your lists, our lists, your representatives, our representatives. You're our president and I ask you to treat everyone as you treat your party's representatives as well. And here, now that it's repeated quite often, I'm asking you to intervene. In 231, giving words and applying for a speech because constantly Mr. Shucker takes your right to warn counsel. Notice every debate that doesn't like Mr. Shucker he's flying in with his warnings, what you're saying, what you're saying, why you're saying, why you're saying, etc. And on the other hand, he takes the word all the time without you letting him do it. And I think there's already practice in the past here I've only been here a week but that's already one six, seven times as it's repeated. Please intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u144	I think I'm either intervening or not intervening. And the next time some of your colleagues, better said colleagues who do so regularly and intervene, then I will remind you of that and remind you. Do you agree with me? ... Great, we got a deal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll warn someone every time they throw us off the bench, so don't say we're unequal. ... On behalf of the HNS club, the next word will be taken by the distinguished representative and vice president of this House, Mrs. Vesna Pusic, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I don't even know how normal it would be if we were to discuss the head man of the intelligence agency at the plenary session, so the director of SOA. This is one of the clear indicators that makes it so important for us, among other things, to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. This is one characteristic topic, or quite a paradigm theme, which should be discussed in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in order for Parliament to have insight and a picture of what is going on, and yet we do not discuss this subject in front of the general public, among other things, because it is a very delicate agency and, among other things, it is carried out through the committee. As for Mr. Lozancic, I don't think it's very helpful for him or for us to defend him, or for those who defend him, or for those who attack him there, he may not be helped by those who defend him. But to say a few things that are neutral and have nothing to do with our assessment and assessment. He, for example, received a special recognition as the best person at the International Conference of top intelligence agencies in Opatija just over a year ago, so as the best director of one such agency. He rejuvenated and brought highly professional people only in the part where I collaborated with them in the role of foreign and European affairs ministers at the top of the organisation that really did their job first-class. You could have relied on them professionally absolutely. Of course it's up to the Prime Minister and the President of the State to consider the situation and decide on it, but apparently it came out in public and decided on one hill before the other hill, so decided on the Pantovac, before the government and the Prime Minister knew anything about it. I find that not only beyond all rules and inadmissible, but also dangerous, given that it is an intelligence agency that is easy to destroy and difficult to build professionally. I therefore appeal that we should remain first at the establishment of our institution, which is the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security through which we will be able to have information and influence, and that we ask the executive and the president of the state to act in a coordinated manner in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u146	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've called in for both breaks, so I'll cut one and two things short. My colleagues and colleagues, without arguments on this subject, are the most dangerous for the state. And here I agree with one part of the debate, Col. Pusic. Once before the amendments to this Rules of Procedure in this high house on these topics could not be discussed without taking away the secrets and other things that should be. And the most dangerous thing here is to humiliate the institutions, the most dangerous thing here is to attack without arguments, and with that, the reputation and security of the state and everything collapses. And we must all be aware of that. We must not allow daily political needs, topics to take us across borders beyond which we, as parliamentary representatives, must not interfere. Unfortunately, there have been some discussions here today. And I think sometimes we just have to refrain from some things. He would remind, in 2002, the late Racan waited six months to name this, did anyone cause any problems when the political nomenclature changed Buljevic? No one was in trouble, but I'm saying I'm going to stop at this, just as pensions were the only ones who had been warned for four years about the problem of taxing foreign pensions was the HDZ club. No. I once proposed an amendment here as a representative, but colleagues and colleagues for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the Croatian public at the head of the tax administration is the same person whose names are SDP, so nothing has changed there. The second thing, that the OIB is applied as it has been adopted and why this all together should not be adopted, because the tax administration would have the foundations and exchanges of data in Croatia, the exchange of international data, and there would be no problem in general. However, it is obvious that Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that you will have to introduce a practice from your predecessor that this press conference is being introduced at 9 a.m. by some MPs, it was, therefore, introduced by your predecessor Mr. Leko and that a normal plenary session takes place at 6:30 p.m. Because it is obvious that these pauses, too, are treated differently when we are in power and when we are in opposition. And I'm gonna end up with these co-workers and colleagues, let's not play with fire where we don't need it, let's not tear down the institutions of the state that we have because if we knock it down, we won't have anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u148	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u149	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have witnessed an extremely unacceptable situation. The president of the state has replaced Mr. Lozancic's SOA boss without getting any convincing arguments as to why it is, except that the law has been broken, how, in which way we don't know. On the other hand, we are also witnessing in this home that this ruling majority does not want to allow Mr. Ranko Ostojic to be appointed president of the National Security Committee. It's an unacceptable violation of procedures, laws, ignoring good customs in this House. It is often said or can sometimes be read in the newspaper that it was similar in 2000 when the ruling majority, then the SDP did not want to allow Mr Pasalić to be appointed to the same committee. But then it was a member of that committee, not the president, which is a significant difference, and I suppose Mr Pasalić is clear to all of us, and nobody is going to offend him by saying that he was in the gray eminence of a period that is extremely unacceptable and that everyone remains in memory as something that actually blackened that time. The President of this House, Mr Reiner, argues that the committee can work, or may give guidance to the Vice-President of the Board, so that the Vice-President of the Committee can convene a committee. That he can, but he can't, because the re-chairing of that committee must be taken over by one of the members of the strongest opposition party, and the opposition party does not want it for understandable reasons. So the board can't work. And we get into one situation that we don't have a boss, or we do, but if we have and how we have a SOA boss, we don't have a board, so we have neither control nor parliamentary, the civilian deadline is already up to that council, and in other words there's no control over what's going to be done and what can be done. We are also witnessing a bit of a funny situation that the prime minister at one point says that he and the president of the country will decide whether to resolve or not to resolve Mr. Lozancic, and Mr. Lozancic is already resolved by the president of the state. This shows that the prime minister is not allowed to interfere in his own business and that what Prime Minister Milanovic said in his own time is saying about this state that it is accidental to say that the prime minister is also random because he obviously does not want to interfere in his own business. It's unacceptable that SOA will be unsupervised. MOST argues that he, or Mr. Petrov Vice-President of the Government, argues that he does not see the reason why Lozancic would be replaced, and I am glad to hear that because I finally hear from MOST that he has an opinion on something even though it is not really God-knowing, but in any case it means they do not see sin in that man. Why is all this done? So I think it's clear, the affair of Montenegro, the affair of Hasanbegovic, the register of traitors, the new cultural revolution, etc. shows what the ruling majority is up to. It's control over everything that can be achieved, it's how I say dealing with the inexperienced and Mr. Lozancic is just a scapegoat in the whole story. Recently on television I watched Mr. Speedy he was an adviser to someone, mostly he was speaking supposedly professional on the subject, so among other things on television he talked about SOA delivering so-called. The user package. I think in this sentence in this syntagma, there's actually a point. If SOA delivers a user package, then you can fill in the package everything the user requires, and in this case they are the users of the Prime Minister and Prime Minister. If there is no control of civil, parliamentary and no, then there can be done whatever it is you want. It's a way for the underworld to rule this country again, and that wouldn't be good, but unfortunately, it wouldn't be the first time. Ignoring means both MPs, both the public and the government and this situation should be resolved as soon as possible. And Mr. Schucker was talking about how we question national security and discuss without arguments, so we're looking for arguments, so let the president of the state tell us why she replaced Mr. Lozancic? What's so big about this crime scene? If he's a criminal in what the papers write, then it's a recommendation to our president that he chooses the company he hangs out with and he doesn't hang out with half the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u150	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of MOSTA, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u151	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. At this point, Mr. Lozancic is still not resolved. If an illegal act is imposed on him, then the constituency committee should listen to what is clearly set out in Article 105. The Security Intelligence System Act. It's in public, as we know, that he did something illegal. However, Article 66 of the same law states that, before the end of the term of office, the Directors of the Security Intelligence Agency may be resolved if they request it themselves, and it is not until now, if they are not permanently losing their ability to carry out their duties, if they do not implement decisions by the President of the Republic and the Government which direct the work of the Security Intelligence Agency or do not implement their measures in connection with the supervision of work, because of infringement of the Constitution, the laws or other regulations, abuse of positions or over-registration of powers, because of the infringement and secrecy of classified data and the convictions of criminal offences which make them unworthy of the conduct of this duty. We just have a statement from the president that she lost confidence in him and signed a resolution. In a statement for breaking the law. The statement does not state by which article of that law. As a MOST, as a club, we ask that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security be drawn up as quickly as possible in a way that elects the chairman of the board that is rightfully belonging to the main opposition party. And we are asking from this place once again, President-in-Office of the Parliament, that this item of the agenda be put on the Parliament's agenda as soon as possible, preferably today to elect the chairman of that committee. The president of that committee is very important because he is chairing and calling for a session. At this point, personal and personal relations, not MOST and Ostojić, which may not have been ideal but personal and personal relations between these two actually patriotic coalitions and Croatia is growing are not important. At this point, the country's national security is at stake, and that must be our absolute priority. The MOST believes that, the committee should listen to Mr Lozancic for the establishment of infringements of the law to be burdened at this time and for this committee and this Croatian Parliament to have exceptional responsibility. Once again, I would like to stress that the Most does not support his shift without calling upon a competent committee that we need to establish as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u152	Thank you very much. Now the time of five minutes will be shared by HSLS and BUZ. First of all, the esteemed representative of Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u153	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. A major media affair has been created in the last few days, and we believe it has caused great damage to our security services and their ratings. I therefore particularly welcome the agreement and the opinion of both Mr Ivan Šuker and Mrs Pusic on the subject of lowering tensions and trying to find an excuse, how and how we will solve this problem. However, I must stress that the president's undisputed right to initiate the procedure, the replacement of the current director of SOA, because it is obvious that Mr. Lozancic, since it is obvious that he no longer enjoys her trust. However, we also have full confidence in Prime Minister Oreskovic, and we expect that, as soon as possible, the current situation is evaluated, to make the right decision, and to resolve this Gordian knot. Our responsibility, all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, because citizens expect us to lower our tensions and make a joint decision and reach a consensus on the election of a new president of the Assembly Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. No one disputes that it will be the person from the strongest opposition party but I stress, we must reach a common, consensual decision on who it will be. And finally, what no one has mentioned so far, but it's also extremely important. As you know, there are 3 levels of surveillance over the intelligence system, i.e. intelligence agencies in the Republic of Croatia. One of these is also the Civil Security Oversight Council that we don't have at the moment. We therefore propose as a club of representatives of HSLS BUZ and appeal to the Committee on Elections and Designs that, as soon as possible, put in the procedure the selection of a new Civil Security Control Council in order to at least have this component of surveillance over the security services and, in order to at least, to calm down, lower tensions and find a certain solution, and that the security system has at least one form of supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u154	Thank you very much. Now, the Honorable Representative of Spika will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u155	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I am extremely pleased that the opposition will stick to the conduct of this term when it was said to be a constructive opposition. If this is something constructive that is happening so far, or if this is going to be a rule of conduct, then we will have to change the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament very quickly. I am glad that some have now felt called and invited to warn about the problems that the tax administration makes for those 200 thousand pensioners. But they were four years old, too, so they didn't say anything. So starting with who's still running the IRS, it's clear that it's the same team that's been in the past four years. So on that point, a little patience, we'll sort it all out. I suppose no matter how many people are watching this session right now, one good part of them has already turned off their TV apparatus half an hour ago, and I'm also wondering how much and how these discussions can contribute to what we're all here for, and that's the improvement of our citizens. So how many of those 300 thousand unemployed are going to get a job after a debate like this? How many will be unblocked from the 350 grand that are blocked? How many out of the millions and 200 thousand pensioners are going to get a higher pension for such discussions tomorrow or some socially endangered group getting some greater rights? How much of the million and 400 thousand employees will be paid more as a result of these valuable and good discussions? How many of those slightly more than the daily average of 100 people who leave the Republic of Croatia because of such discussions will change their mind at the bus station and stay in the Republic of Croatia, or will this number be increased precisely from such discussions? Dear friends, dear colleagues, we have spent too much time here and are spending on some things that our citizens do not have much use for. It is time for those promises that we will work in the interest of our citizens to move to action, to stop abusing these pay phones for personal promotion. Because those who were going to do something, and they already had a chance not one but more mandates, they had a chance, but it's good, and it's good to have them too. And in terms of changing appointments or something like that, if we have a rule where two people name someone and if that person loses the trust of one of those two, then the elemental culture is the fundamental political decency to stand down. Everything else is a waste of time for both us and them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u156	Thank you. And finally, as the last club, will perform on behalf of HSP, distinguished representative Pero Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u157	... sugar at the end, I'm kidding. [[Specially enabled.]] Since I'm last, but I'll be brief. So, we in HSP AS are not formalists, but legalists certainly are. So we're for strict law enforcement. I'm surprised and here's what I'm saying on behalf of Dr. Kirin here, our vice president, Tepes. We expect Mr. Dragan Lozancic to resign as a responsible person every morning when we wake up these days. He didn't do it, and I'm really surprised because he broke the law just on the trail of his mentors who put it there, he's being laundered by the politics of the ex post mind. So, he has an obligation not when someone suggested to him to inform the president that she had spoken for days and I don't know a dozen times with the person followed, but he had to do it the same day that he had the knowledge, and he had a certain knowledge of the first day. And for that very reason we give full support to the presidents, we as representatives must be responsible for those who chose us. We also expect something from our Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic to stop these ribbons, so the Croatian people are watching us and expecting them to get better. We are waiting, so the fight for the improvement of Croatian citizens and I am here for it. That's why the HSP club is here. I'm ordering Mr. Lozancic to resign if not the HSP club gives full support to the president in his decision. According to our findings, she informed Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic and we expect him to make a decision according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u158	Thank you very much. We could now move to the intended points of the agenda and the first for today is - The Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2014. The report shall be submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures pursuant to Article 18. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. You've received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Please, the President of the State Commission, Mr Goran Matesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2050	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The 10th report on the work of the State Commission is in front of you. So, in the 14th year, the State Commission turned 10 years of its existence. The report is given after two years of EU membership. It is marked by the beginning of a more intensive use of European structural investment funds. And a feature of public procurement that is highly complex and professional procedure applied throughout the country. The work report contains the usual and legally arranged statistical part of the report on the work of the State Commission and one creative part which is actually an assessment of the state of the public procurement, which includes an assessment of the State Commission's experience as an appeal body. From this first part, it should be said that here is the business, the financial business of the State Commission, the plan was millions and 600, 83% of the use of the budget. It should also be stated at this time that the State Commission is coming to the state budget by 19, in that year it has received 19 million kuna from the basis of the charge for the conduct of the procedure. From human potential, it should be said that in the fourteenth year, the State Commission worked under specific circumstances, so of the nine members of the State Commission were elected and worked only three, and in fact these three people were by exceptional pawnage and work, with the fact that we had a complete advisory team here is the result of this extraordinary effort that did not create lag behind. And the usual number of cases pending which due to deadlines were not resolved in the fourteenth year was transferred to the next year. In the 14th year, the State Commission had 1500 cases in its work, which is less than in the previous year by 38%. The reason for this is in the reduced number of posts, hence the reduced number of public procurement procedures in general, in increasing the amount of compensation that is actually an instrument for preventing hanging litigation and increasing the thresholds of bagatella procurement. However, that the matter would not be quite simple for us in that year as I said it was the time of the start of the use of European structural investment funds and then the Schengen instrument and then the start of strategic investments. In these cases it was very, and so far, very, very complex cases so that in the work of the State Commission, a smaller number of cases compensated for greater complexity. It remains mainly against the selection decisions, therefore, at the end of the procedure, complaints are made. It's a small number of complaints, only 23% compared to the bidding paperwork. It should also be said about statistics, about the types of decisions. The state commission cancels 34% of the cases, and that's about standard treatment. He's refusing in 22% of the cases. It is very important that in 32% of the cases the appeal is dismissed, and when the withdrawal of the appeal procedure is added, a number of 40% is reached. They're procedural decisions. The size of this number should be analysed. It is likely a statement of appeal to create a situation of immoral negotiations. The length of the appeal procedure is a subject that interests all users. We've given the average number of days, 40 days is the average time from taking a decision to making a decision. The average time since the file was completed is 17 days. It should be said that the work of the State Commission which is actually one quasi-judicial body is otherwise normised than with courts. Each court shall also have a special deadline for making that decision when it has a decision. The State Commission has a deadline which consists of the subject being examined, reports made, written and published by a decision that you will agree on in very complex cases very difficult. According to the law, a list of contracting entities that have five or more complaints here should be said that this table display is shown in terms of the law, but in some situations it shows the wrong picture. Someone's probably gonna answer that, so if I have to, I'll try to explain it. Administrative disputes against decisions by the State Commission may be conducted. In relation to everything, 7.73% of the state commission's decisions have been brought to the Administrative Court. There are certain problems in legal practice and conduct. So now we have 4 regional first-degree courts and judges individuals. There is one inconsistency of practice in which different courts in similar situations can make different decisions, so this is one problem that will need to be taken into account in the future because this legal protection makes it less predictable. It should be said that the provisions on compensation for the conduct of an appeal procedure which is a very professional and complex procedure in which we increasingly have the participation of different consultants, then legal teams, which means that the level of legal protection is being raised, so the compensation provisions have reached the effect that in a certain way the number of complaints has been reduced. I told you on that basis how much it was brought into the state budget. One part of this report is the presentation of complaints in public procurement procedures financed by the European Structural Investment Funds of the Schengen Instrument. It is the funds the Republic of Croatia receives from the European Union for the purpose of regulating the Schengen border. They were found to be in a hurry under the regulation. We've done one full analysis, and part of it is here. It's about high-value items first. Total estimated value in '14. The year of cases that were under appeal is 2 billion and 300. It is about complex procurement procedures involving both goods and works and services at the same time, by principle key in hand, most often by... General conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore an extremely complex procedure that requires the knowledge of users, knowledge and the State Commission and of course the knowledge of administrative courts. As a rule, there is a very extensive documentation that I say because of the experience of all participants, sometimes it is contradictory to itself, and then it is difficult to apply it. In these procurement procedures they often participate or participate in foreign consortiums most often. One of the most important characteristics of these procurement procedures should be given, which is that they are in the ex post control regime where the European Commission, once the projects have been completed, controls the regularity of these procurement procedures not in accordance with our legislation, is not in line with decisions made by domestic authorities including the State Commission, but directly based on one of its own manuals which refer directly to the founding and public procurement contracts. So that makes these procedures additionally important and risky. We gave here and the characteristics of the appeal cases. This report has given us the opportunity to analyze this creative part of this report, which is an assessment of the state of legal protection in public procurement. These following pages, points 3 are quite concentrated to highlight anything from here, so here I'm just sure you've studied them and I'm leaving them with your comments. Finally, after an assessment of the situation in public procurement, in legal protection and in terms of institutions, we talked primarily about ourselves, this report also contains recommendations concerning these specific segments. It is to be said that these recommendations and this assessment are approximately consistent with the general understanding or general observations of all stakeholders, starting with the employers' association, and different professional chambers and associations, and about this testifies to the fact that the system has matured for a good change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2051	Thank you. Representative of the Economic Committee because he has an interest? If he doesn't, then we'll go with the debate. First, she applied for the debate, the esteemed representative Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj in the name of CLUBA BMW365.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2052	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected MPs and MPs, respected short-line rapporteurs, I would like to sum up the problem of public procurement with which we meet daily at all levels in the business of state institutions, in the business of companies and units of local administrations and self-government and cities. It is also relevant not only to public procurement procedures but also to the implementation of concession procedures, procedures for selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects, which the report contains an assessment of the situation, of public procurement and of not only the procurement process but also the provision of legal protection. When we consider the structure and organisation of the state commission as stated in the report, the same commission has 9 members and a certain number of professionals, but what is unequivocal, unclear and what cannot be read is the fact that the professions are members of the state commission? It should be clear to all of us that in order to make a measurement decision when making a complaint in relation to those procedures, it is necessary to notify that experts possessing certain expertise such as: graduate economists, graduate lawyers and persons who possess specific expertise in specific goods, works or services which are subject to public procurement, such as graduate engineers of construction, designers and all in terms of proper identification of the facts which is the subject of public procurement, concessions and public-private partnership projects. I personally believe that members of the commission and professional persons must be persons covering all the segments covered by the procurement procedure and which are precisely subject to the necessary expertise and experience for those procedures. What amazes me is the fact that the report states that more employees are on maternity leave. This is precisely, and that is precisely why the work of the State Commission has ended with a partial success which I personally find inadmissible because exactly the public procurement process, the concession procedure and the process of selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects is particularly important for the normal functioning of all institutions and the depriving of any form of possible corrupt actions. How the lack of personnel missing in this case, i.e. due to lack of action or carried out within a reduced range, cannot even be a reason to give a positive assessment. What I would like to point out in particular is the fact that the State Commission does not have the power to carry out bagatelial procurement, and therefore there is no relevant information to determine whether or not the actual damage has been done by carrying out bagatelical procurement and, in particular, if anti-corruption action is in the process of bagatelal procurement which is not subject to the Public Procurement Act. What I find particularly important is the lack of legal regulation which would determine who is responsible for the conduct of the control of the bagatile procurement process and, as a general rule, the lack of such control allows for possible manipulation and possible corruptive activities in that process of bagatile procurement. In this context, I propose that the jurisdiction and mode of work of the body to control the procurement process be regulated urgently. The second problem I have seen also relates to the procurement procedures in which certain lawyers, joint law firms or law firms as bidders appeal to the public procurement carried out and at the same time submit to the contracting authority an offer of a settlement to which the tenderer would withdraw his appeal as to how much the client agrees to obtain goods, works or services from him at a significantly higher price than the market price. One of the main problems is the fact that the long-term implementation of public procurement procedures, and the high costs of filing complaints, I find it a very serious problem for which the applicants in the public procurement then very often give up their complaint although irregularities in the conduct of public procurement are obvious. I find this particularly important since it is a very high fee for fees and the duration of the procurement process de facto restricts the use of the legal remedy, valid legal protection and, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, guaranteeing that each person has the right to appeal. I also believe that the problem is reflected in the different interpretations of the same provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Given that the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the public procurement office does not have a uniform practice of interpreting legal norms that regulate certain matter leading to legal uncertainty, and I consider it a fundamental basis for the functioning of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2053	Thank you. Next up for discussion is distinguished representative Tomislav Koncevski, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2054	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would point out on behalf of the club a few things in this report and generally about public procurement. The total value of public procurement in Croatia is around 40 billion kuna, almost a third of the state budget, and I think we should take this problem more seriously. In fact, there we heard the composition of the commission, that they worked three. The report says there were eight of them and it was supposed to be nine. I think that's one key problem. The report also says that the reduction in the coefficient of experts, specialists. And there was a drain of the most professional personnel. It means that by reducing fees by professional staff, we simply lose the best people who solve our key problems. We will also appear to drive away the most professional people in the country because it seems that these rationalizations also want to reduce the fees of the most professional personnel and these personnel are driven out of the country. If we want to have a profession, if we want to have people who will professionally do their job, we need to pay them and not reduce the coefficients and make the most professional personnel go away. Who are we gonna have? No one. Unfortunately, we depend on 5 workers who are on maternity leave, thank God they are, to make things a little better for us as far as children are concerned, but we should have replaced them with professional staff so that this commission could contribute to something. I hope that this new government will also introduce a rationalisation called upon and within the system to redistribute professional personnel that the commission can work. I think the legal deadline for solving complaints for 30 days should be reduced, that may be too long. I think the result of a reduction in the number of appeal procedures that decrease 38% a year before, even though we're talking about 2014, is now 2016, this is also crazy for the people who listen to us but we have to talk about it now. The result of a reduction in the number of proceedings is by increasing the amount of compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure and by increasing the thresholds for the exaggeration. Of course, exaggeration is possible as well as corruption. But exaggeration and this increase in the supply itself makes it easier for many to work on the ground because before that, the figure that was for the bazaar purchase was too low for some institutions to function normally and should have been found in addition to all possible complaints to find a way to make the purchase. I know examples of where we happened to say the Ministry of the Interior people didn't have uniforms. So you can't get a uniform because of all sorts of complaints, because of all kinds of problems that happen in public procurement. The law on public procurement comes across a number of misunderstandings in legal provisions. This primarily refers to the lowest price criterion. The old saying says I'm not rich enough to buy cheap. So it's not always the cheapest, it can't always be the public interest to buy the cheapest because what's cheapest today doesn't mean that it's the cheapest in the process of using. It's also a very big problem with public procurement. Also, clarification of the filling of offers, namely, is not clearly defined which documents and how the client can ask the tenderer. A clear definition of the time limit for making the selection decision, defining how professional complainants should be prevented. In fact, even the smallest error in the tender and the slightest irregularity of the already specialised companies established exclusively for profit in public procurement procedures are used to complain and collect non-existent compensation or at least enormous legal costs. The problem is that according to current regulations, such a company can file a complaint without asking to correct a mistake which is why the smallest errors are used. The reason for the complaint is that the selected bidder did not mention, for example, the regular number of items or had only mislabelled one page, which is without any influence on the public procurement process itself. So I think that this problem really should take a lot, a lot more attention because business problems are huge for the sole purpose of public procurement. And I think that legal solutions should fix that system, and I think it takes a lot, a lot more effort to put into the process itself. Here's the Croatian Labour Club to support this report. At least I'm saying, it's crazy that we support the 2014 report, I think it should be shortened, that it should be done much sooner, and I think we should all decide this together because the Parliament is also deciding on the work of the commission. So, what's the point of the Parliament now not making a decision to support it? This is from 2014. I don't think the Parliament supports that decision now, either, but we are now in 2016. What's gonna happen? Nothing. So we should think about it a little bit, but it's still a little bit more control over it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2055	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Koncevski, I just wanted to look back on one part where you spoke about the importance of the staff team of this Commission and pointed out that this is an important prerequisite for controlling public procurement procedures, given that public procurement is just one of the biggest corruption risks. It is therefore necessary to point out, however, that a huge shift in public procurement has been made in the past period, especially when it comes to state institutions, given that public procurement procedures have been combined. For example, in the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, the software that was purchased provided the amounts that amounted to hundreds and hundreds of millions of kuna in savings. So, if we're talking about public procurement, of course this commission is important. However, it is much more important to provide all the assumptions that are necessary for public procurement procedures to be carried out transparently because then this commission has much less to do. And the damage that has been done unfortunately when this commission determines the damage can never be returned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2057	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Josip Boris, the Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2058	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the work of the State Commission for 2014 will say something at the beginning of the public procurement, because here we heard a very important tool, anti-corruption tools and has been upgraded really for a very long time. We have heard from the Commission itself a dozen years of continuous work, improvements from mandate to mandate, but we still have a lot of criticism, we still have a lot of problems, indeterminateness, and of course there are administrative procedures, delays, and ultimately the worst ones that are not realised or the funds from local, regional and state levels and all this is causing some dissatisfaction. It is clear that the legal basis is certainly the Public Procurement Act, the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but we also have these sublegal acts, such as the rules on how to make and deal with competition and tender documents, public procurement notices, a regulation on the supervision of the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, etc. The big debate was held in this House before I think a little over 2 years ago, in late 2013, when the last time the Public Procurement Act was changed, which he had changed again in 2014. There were many problems, and then the debate was about whether the threshold that we had until then was 70,000 for the boughing supply was high enough, whether it was constraint, whether it was his fault, whether it should be changed. The law itself has been discussed, and only after the parliamentary debate has been held, which we think has been well respected by the MPs and has changed it with its amendment, so that, in accordance with Article 18(3), these amounts have been increased. At present, it is not applicable to the exaggeration of the Public Procurement Act up to 200,000, or to the purchase of goods, works up to 50,000. We'll see what this report says and how it responded let's say all the bidders, i.e. the whole market that works on that segment. The law was passed by another newspaper – joint procurement through the central body. It allowed those who entered a pre-determined settlement to compete under certain conditions within the Public Procurement Act. The fees for the initiation of the appeal procedure have been redefined, the total prices of the works carried out through the final calculation have been established, and the possibility of a deviation from the initially established labour price, which further complicated many public procurement procedures and caused many complaints, but also problems in the execution itself. We believe that this Commission is indeed an important anti-corruption tool and, of course, it is important that we, too, can talk about it in the Parliament. It is called the Croatian Parliament on the government's proposal and is responsible for its work to the Parliament. It shall decide on the legality of the procedure, on the actions, on the missing of the action, on the individual acts adopted in public procurement procedures, on the award of concessions and on the choice of a private partner in public private partnership projects. According to the law, this report is also written in accordance with Article 16. In the term of last government I say the law has been changed, that may have been the biggest problem. So, speed up the appeal procedures, i.e. public procurement procedures in full. Then it began with a story that it was necessary to increase the number of committee members from 5 to 9, that the people in the commission were missing and that it would speed up the process. We'll see on this report whether it's true or not. Then, through the amendments to the law, the number of commission members increased from 5 to 9. However, there were a lot of problems during 2014. That is why some within the commission ended the five-year mandates and the commission worked with only three members of the commission for a large part of the year, and only in the end, at the end of the year did it. The government insisted on that intention, and now that we see whether it helped or not, we will determine that the number, apparently the number of members in the commission, does not lead to the acceleration of the appeal process. But to get to that, first I'm going to say something about what we had in 2014 when we talk about the very system of public procurement. The total value of public procurement in 2014 was around 42 billion kuna, of which the value of the published contracts and framework agreements amounted to 32 billion and 875 million, and the cost of purchasing 9 billion and 277 million kuna. The total value in 2003 was slightly lower when we talk about contracts and agreements of 39 billion, and the bagatel supply was about 6 billion. It means that from local, regional to state level, the contracting authorities have taken advantage of these changes to the Public Procurement Act and have transferred to a system where there is no public procurement procedure and increased almost 3 billion of that amount. Public procurement according to the monthly statistical report of the State Statistics Institute is about 12.8% of the total GDP, which amounted to 328 billion kuna in 2014. The total value of the bagattel procurement was almost 50% growth compared to 2013. It was published in 2014. 14 924 contracts, compared to 2013 we come to the conclusion that the number of contracts has dropped by 30%. What's the reason? We can assume. When we talk about the commission's work, we see that over the years of each year, about 200 cases are transferred in the following year. The Commission considers this to have occurred because of the failure of the case but also interprets the last month, meaning the 12th month beggar and cannot make all the complaints within those deadlines, so every year we have a transfer of a number of cases in the following year. For 2014, that number fell from 200 from 2013 to 114 cases. With all these problems that we've just said something about, it means in the section relating to the number of people working on that commission. The average length of the appeal process from the date of entry for 2014 following the amendments to the law is 40 days as heard by the Commission itself, which was 39 days for 2013. Here we can conclude that this number of members did not contribute to a accelerated process in the appeal process. In 2012, as this House discussed, it was 20 days. Was that information good? I don't know, but for 2012, that data is 20 days from the day of the complaint. So we can question whether this number or the increase in the number of members of the commission has actually caused the appeal process to accelerate? We see from this what it says here, the average number of days, obviously not. What does the commission itself say is the cause of the decline in the number of cases received? A reduction in the number of proceedings in the electronic public procurement advertiser, an increase in fees for the use of the appeal procedure and an increase in the thresholds for exaggeration due to the legislative changes in December 2013. The estimated value of the items in which the complaint was made in 2014 is only 2 billion and 338 million kuna. For 2013, this amount was €21 billion. These are the estimated values we show at the time of the publication of the public tender. So we have 10 times the estimated amount. Here, we'd like to hear what you from the commission might be saying to tell us what was really going on in that space because statistics from the Public Procurement Office say that the economic part, meaning the amount I was talking about 40 billion kuna, wasn't shrinking. What happened is that we have 10 times the amount I say inside of which was complained by those who felt that something was damaged in the public tendering process. The revenues of the state budget from the basis of the Commission's work of 19 million and 620 thousand kuna, which is more for 6 million kuna compared to 2013. The amendments to the law have obviously contributed to the fact that the Commission can say with that basis or the application of the law to the state budget and bring a lot more money. What's the reason for that? Obviously, fees that will obviously have to be redefined. Because in order to complain about the case for which a public competition is announced, say, more than 60 million kuna and you have to pay a fee of 100 thousand kuna. There is a clear table for each amount of up to 60 million kuna and more. It could be, and 3 grand could be 27 grand, but it could be more than that. This is why the complainants now began to think whether it was worth it or not to complain about the procurement process. But I'm saying, it's not their own fault because the state reacted, it gave certain improvements, but certain problems remained. When we look at the number of complaints adopted, he's fronting the HEP and ahead of the MUP. Obviously, in these segments, they will need a little education or some different behavior because almost every other supply fell from what they complained about and this table says. What's the problem? We've already heard something, and I'm going to state again, the lack of technical documentation. Certificates often appear as a condition, certain atheists and favor certain performers in relation to all others who do not have such a certificate or atest. The problem is again to say the length of decision-making in the appeal process, we think that the commission should make some moves to make this number of days as small as possible so that many investments can be made during the financial year. There are definitely problems where we have the lowest price. Is the lowest price the best argument for selecting performers especially in the section when talking about construction works. It's a constant debate, but maybe it's time to scratch there too and say whether we're going to continue in that way or if there are better solutions. There is a problem that within the Commission itself, the different councils that are sitting and making a decision on a specific complaint on the same problem are making two different decisions. So, unequal behavior within the same procedures. That's what I'm saying we're being referred to by certain people. companies that have complained and said that and that problem we've been through somewhere, and we haven't passed somewhere and the council may be different and bring different solutions. And the problem is, we complain about one thing, we've seen some kind of problem within the public procurement process itself, and the commission cancels our procedure by ten other criteria. What I'm saying again is legal, but let's see if within that word segment there can be some improvements. We believe that I will say all in all this this report is rightly done as every year, and the HDZ Club will support it with these remarks that we believe should be a guideline to some new amendments to the Public Procurement Act in order to further speed up and pass a law that will be even more high-quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2059	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Orsat Milenic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll be relatively brief. In the meantime, I'm going to say that as a club, we're going to support this report. We think that it's quality done, but I'm going to look back at some points that I think we need to point out that we need to think about for the future and for any change. First and what I think is well highlighted here and connected is the anti-corruption action of the state commission and its public work. So that's something that's connected to each other and I think that you've made a very big step, and that's what we need to do even more. Because through this, therefore, through the system itself of repealing this contract but, on the other hand, through the public of work, which is necessary to establish the practice that you are doing, and later on, it must be linked to the case law that is legal certainty and it can make an important move. Because the law itself can always be like this or like this, but it is important how it is implemented in practice and that is what gives legal certainty or causes legal uncertainty among citizens and here with entrepreneurs. So, please continue to do this as well, insist as much as possible, you have legal tools for this, and it is necessary that we all, when we participate, know what is the predictable legal outcome of any procedure. I'm going to link something later on what you've opened in the report, it's the practice of the Administrative Courts and the fact that in 2011, we crossed over, actually introduced a first-degree trial, four administrative courts, and it's true that there are still a lot of problems and unequal practices. You know that we've changed the law in this sense that now the appeal against this first-degree decision is much wider than it was just so that the High Administrative Court could evenly practice but that's one thing for me to do in the next year two look again and really consider, I was, as a minister, against going directly to the High Administrative Court. However, if practices continue to differ between administrative courts, then it is necessary to consider or go to the High Administrative or to find another mechanism for equating judicial practice, because this thing ends. It is absurd for you as a commission to carry out the whole work, to enter technically very demandingly into it, to invest big money because, as you yourself have stated the technical knowledge necessary and then you have a court practice that actually changes in one way or another and is not predictable in advance. And that's maybe the key, that's where the procedure ends. So that's very important and I'm glad you pointed that out. And here's what's going to happen in the next reports, and eventually it should be accounted for. One thing that we all did, and we were kind of users of public procurement, and now the people that are, is that you, one of the points, would point out the characteristic errors of the client and I think it's one of the very large ones and it's dealing with the goal of choosing the nominally cheapest offer. What's that? As a rule, the transfer of responsibility. And that's what we sometimes do in public procurement, we don't have enough professionals, they're not capacitated to carry out the whole competition, and what's most important in the whole state administration that we miss is ability and actually the will to decide. And in that case, the simplest thing is to go to the cheapest offer, because then no one can object to you. It doesn't matter if the object of the offer is good or not, it's cheapest and it goes away. And I would link that to what you have also stated and what is worrying, and I think we even need to think about it if there is a need for a change in practice, if there is a need for a change in the legal framework, and that is the criterion of the most economically favourable offer. So we, as you say it was 2014, I'm afraid 2015 is not much better, we only use it in 5.17%. So it's something where you're actually losing a very large amount of money and where you're showing this discomfort, trouble, lack of will to make a decision. Because it's always the simplest thing to go to the cheapest financial offer, we'll choose what's cheapest, so whether the printer will work for two years is none of our business, one year will work but it's the cheapest and nobody will object. And that's something where we have to build up, so if we're looking at a public servant, we need to build him up on his independence in the work and willingness to take responsibility and protect him in it, and then when he's called out of competition why he took more expensive, he took it, not him, but the body he was carrying out, because it's objectively better and so is the offer made. Not that we're always going cheapest and then after a year we have a problem because a printer or a car or something just doesn't work. This is a major problem, and the EU's average is much bigger and the EU insists on this. Economic best offer to use as much as possible. Secondly, you also said here the Institute of Framework Agreement, I think it's a big problem that's being used too little. It's something that stores resources. When you have a framework agreement, you don't have to go over and over again every year or over a certain period of time and spin and it's actually possible that it's actually a small possibility for them to get into the whole process much simpler. Good thing you pointed out that, I would appeal in the next report means to pay even more attention to it because that's something that we in the whole public procurement process will give us extra quality. When we raise these two figures and use the Institute of the Framework Agreement and especially the most economically favourable offers, we will be able to see it as a success in implementing the public offering. What you were saying about legal protection, I said something about courts, really maybe it was a problem that the legal control of the commission was limited, because real-time other bodies, let's say the state's attorneys don't deal with it. I mean, it's not about how much it should be. They don't have time, they don't have the means to do it. You can't normally react on official duty and that's one problem. There if the orderers themselves aren't interested and they're not sometimes, then we're in trouble. And we need to think maybe coming back to you means being able to control your own legality. I think that would be good. About the administrative courts, I said, we need to monitor the situation and see what happens next. These 15 points you were talking about legal protection, I think it's very good that you listed them. I suggest again that in the next report, which I hope will be almost for 2015 to explain even more because it must serve us as the basis for possible legal changes if we decide on them. There are a whole series of things that I can do, there are many colleagues before me who have appealed to acceleration, they can lead to speed up procedures, but they can also lead to discipline and avoid certain abuses from a remonstrate remedy, which is very useful wherever we can, why at all go into the whole process if it can change before we see an obvious mistake and it's bad that we don't have, to some things that seem so obvious but sometimes cause problems to from, to the authority to receive a note, to really consider whether to act on a complaint that is not charged because it can also be a problem. So all this stuff you've put in there with an accent and I'm going to connect to what I started with at point 15, it means the verdicts of administrative courts. This is something that will also force administrative courts in their part to work better because if they step down, then it will be seen publicly that it is deviating from practice and other things that will increase legal certainty. So here, I can repeat once again that we're going to support the report along with the proposal to respect this one, I'm not going to say the remarks, I'm going to say the proposals to expand certain points and place a greater emphasis so that we here can consider the potential need for certain changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2061	Thank you. We have two replicas for this debate. The first is Honourable representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a replica to Mr. Milenic's presentation since he's also a former justice minister and I know he's advocated certain amendments to certain laws. But when we talk about the most favourable offer you're talking about today, I think that all together in the future should look at this big problem that goes on not since yesterday or yesterday, but one due number of years. We know that other countries currently have different laws in the European Union and is not the priority of the most favourable offer. What I can speak responsibly, and even when I speak in my individual presentation, I will refer specifically to the facts that really harm both the state commission and the public procurement but the most damage to the economy. I therefore believe that in a very urgent procedure, especially when we talk about those people who are going to draw up laws and make amendments and additions, we just need to make sure that in the future it is not the most favourable price and the best solution. We're witnessing just about all those capital facilities that were built in my county of Požega-Slavonski who remained unfinished, getting exactly the jobs of those who were the cheapest. You know what damage we've suffered? You know what resources, loans we've raised, and at the same time these facilities are failing today? We really have to stop this once, it can't be the cheapest and the best because it's just the opposite. And if time hasn't taught us this past then it won't, I'm afraid in the future, we won't learn anything in particular. But we have to just sit here for a long time and listen to all those problems in the economy we have to do everything to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2063	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the distinguished representative Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2064	Thank you very much. So, I agree with you, which is why I've put an emphasis exactly on this, the most economically favourable offer is something we need to pursue. The 5.17% that is used is unacceptable. I would not entirely agree with you that there is legislative intervention which is crucial because if you are looking at the law it is correct and very close to the laws of the European Union where it is implemented in many countries much more than with us. I think that it is primarily about raising the standard of our public servants who must dare to create a tender to go on the most favourable economic offer, meaning not to the financial, not to the price but to the total. And they must be willing to bear, so make a decision and expose themselves to the public, because you always know that whoever was the cheapest will complain and we, not us, must protect them as a state government. And that's where I see the biggest space for progress. So a civil servant who does a good job, who's behind it, who doesn't go behind running away from responsibility, I'm going to take the cheapest nobody can call me, but who's just choosing what's behind his decision. So that's where we have to raise the standards. The law itself, if necessary, will be highlighted by colleagues in the following report, if something needs to be changed in the law itself. But I don't think in this part we should, but we need to work more on the quality of the civil servants dealing with it. Thank you very much. orsate
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2065	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2066	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Orsat, obviously we're both thinking about my colleague Lucic and I, which is very important in your presentation, so I answered about it too, so I'll be brief so I don't take the time. But really the data that only 5.17% of offers go according to the criteria of the most economically favourable offer shows that something is wrong. Because the lowest price, unfortunately, is rarely the most economically favourable offer. From my experience as a minister, I became convinced that the lowest prices were rarely actually the most expensive. And unfortunately, there was also a element of corruption. So the beginning is going with the lowest price knowing that it won't be enough to complete the facility. Then the missing part is being upgraded through extracurricular work. It rarely fails either, but in the end we have unfinished facilities, and when there are huge problems in the education system for schools that could not work. Therefore, I can see that there is something that is crucial in the next period in order to make public procurement procedures more successful and efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2067	Thank you. The following came to the debate with the distinguished representative Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2068	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Mr Matesic and his associates. The 2014 report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures submitted to the Croatian Assembly and to the representatives by the State Commission gives a good cross-section in public procurement procedures, therefore this report will support the representatives of the IDS Club. However, I must also point out on behalf of the IDS Club that we are not too satisfied with the state and procedures that take place in our country's public procurement. The system of public procurement is unfortunately characterized by a series of shortcomings, difficulties, obstacles and disturbances and occurrences that occur. The IDS Club cannot accept the fact that today public procurement has become one of the major obstacles to the realisation of more efficient, more efficient projects for faster economic development and investment both at the state level and at the level of local and regional (regional) self-government. What we have heard unfortunately with such a law is also happening in this particular sector to the public, and the role of the commission is to protect it in some way. I'll try to explain briefly why we in IDS have this attitude. Thus, the public procurement system is a set of rules and rules that prescribe certain procedures for the purchase of goods, works and services for public money. The fundamental objective of these regulations is to ensure the economic legitimate spending and supervision of public money spending, i.e. budgetary resources. What we often hear about public procurement is corruption, guessing, high uncertainty of the duration and completion of the procurement process, the quality and ability of selected bidders, the ability of personnel to prepare and implement public procurement procedures, as well as in the execution of contracts resulting from these procedures. So that's one whole chain of participants that everyone in their part must first of all be trained for the job and have enough capacity to do the job professionally, quality and in time. We also believe that it is very important in all of this that education is in charge of the State Commission, as well as the education of staff at all levels from local to state services. Education is being conducted, but it should be much wider than it is today. In order for public procurement to be carried out, it is not only important to know the Public Procurement Act well but it is necessary to have considerable wider knowledge, for example, if you are purchasing goods or services or works that are related to, in the area of construction must be known, meaning building regulations, construction ropes, spatial arrangements, various technical norms, mandatory relationships and the like. We must not forget that designers need to be educated, to learn what it means to make a public procurement cost. Because whoever is developing a project procurement task and some services must know very well the area to which the service is concerned and must know that this project task is the basis for supply of the offer and, later, for a contract that will regulate the rights and obligations to obtain a particular service. So we need to review the education models that we have today and create education programmes that will not be just within the framework of the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, we are very often witnessing that public procurement ends with the selection of the most favourable offer, which is what we have heard from bidders who are not up to the task that needs to be done, which causes a whole series of problems in the execution of the contract itself. These are additional or non-quality works, non-compliance with established deadlines and the like. Of course, for that there are opportunities to break the contract, pay the penalty. But unfortunately, then we enter long and uncertain court proceedings, and the investment stands. And that's where the biggest damage happens. It also creates good big problems for planning investment through the budget and problems that arise at the time simply do not need to be particularly stressed. And then there's the question of what to do? We are witnessing that in public procurement procedures, an open procedure is used in the highest percentage, where the selection criteria are the lowest price. The question arises why are other legal procedures not used? The previous ones mentioned the most favourable or cheapest offer. Today, however, there are legal procedures that allow for the selection of better quality offers. However, these actions are too complicated, too long, and perhaps lack sufficient knowledge to carry out such actions, and most likely there are both. We therefore propose to see the possibility for sublegislative acts to elaborate on the way and to set the criteria for handling where the most favourable offer would be chosen according to the most economically favourable criterion, i.e. best offers and thus help those who conduct public procurement procedures. Also see if there is a possibility that certain procedures can be simplified under the Public Procurement Act. The next problem we're facing is appeal procedures. The current Public Procurement Act certainly improved this section compared to earlier regulations, but in reality, when you receive a complaint about a phase of the public procurement process itself, or ultimately the decision to choose, it inevitably leads to a significant extension of the procedure itself, and often to a situation where a particular investment must be given up. The State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure, which is responsible for resolving complaints, has a 30-day deadline for the Public Procurement Act. Unfortunately, not by its own fault, that deadline cannot be simply respected. It would therefore be good for us all to re-establish together the objectives and ways of achieving these objectives set out in the Strategic Plan of the State Commission for the period 2015-2017. One of the important specific objectives is to strengthen the capacity of the State Commission through capacity building, professional training of officials and business information. We point out this goal because without the number of people who have the necessary knowledge and the most perfect law will not help us to be more effective in our work. Once the State Commission has done its job and issued the relevant act then the dissatisfied party can launch an administrative dispute before the Administrative Court and then we are entering an area where the process cannot be seen to end. What can we do to make court disputes resolved faster? It is difficult for us to answer but we expect the major reforms announced precisely that in the area of the judiciary will also answer that question. However, something has been touched on these complaints and we see that the report has reduced the number of complaints, but recently we have an increase in the number of complaints based on such withdrawn complaints by professional complainants. So there are already organised law offices that, as soon as the tender is announced, immediately appeal to the State Commission, even if those in the public procurement are not involved. After publishing this to the State Commission, let's say an immoral offer as someone has already said here i.e. submit proposals to the contracting authorities with a deal to cover all the costs of that lawyer's office as well as withdrawing complaints. I think that, with these immoral offers, we must also, in the future, provide for a way to prevent this from happening through legislation. And finally so many corruptions mentioned. That's the fact that we're being followed and that we need to deal with. We believe that, through the full transparency of the procurement process at all levels, the knowledge and responsibility of those who prepare and carry out public procurement procedures as well as those who deliver their offers give quite a guarantee that the area for the action of corrupt processes will be reduced to a minimum. It is our job in the public administration, as well as in the public procurement business, to be a quality place for continuous education and the acquisition of new knowledge in the field in which it works, and on the other hand to enable bidders to acquire the necessary skills to make quality and concrete offers. And by doing so, unlike my predecessors, I think that with the quality of this particular public procurement we can protect domestic producers, domestic performers and all those who invest in raising competitiveness and training with all the certificates they have to have when they report to public procurement. And that's why here's the club of MPs in the end we repeat that we will support this report of yours, but we are of the view that there must be significant changes and additions to the Public Procurement Act in particular, as well as other legal regulations that cover public procurement procedures with their regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2069	Thank you. We have two replicas to discuss. The first is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2070	Thank you, Vice President. I am glad that a corrupt risk has been mentioned, and I am glad that this fact is mentioned about the need to change the legislation. And I've been in public procurement for the last decade in the public procurement system, so what's most important here is to actually say from the perspective of users of public procurement and from the perspective of bodies that control we have here a lot of bodies that have their own tasks and powers. We have the State Office for Central Public Procurement with our powers, we have the State Commission that now reports here, we have the Public Procurement System Administration, etc., etc. However, when all of this is summed up, three of these are basic problems. The first is what cancer wounds in our public procurement, which is insufficient knowledge of documentation and regulations. This has been expressed particularly with structural funds, and this is, with these structural funds actually emerging, the problem has been so sudden that none of us were aware of the problem. This report actually shows how important this problem is. Orderers subsequently correct the documentation, so after the appeal, and it appears that the problem is, in fact, insufficiently prepared documentation for the competition. And I see that the adoption of complaints about that documentation has been frequented, and in fact there are irregularities of the same. What is also important is that the State Commission as yet a relatively young body in my opinion is not ultimately institutionalised in the sense that it is not fully defined. Why? And even in the Anti-Corruption Strategy of the former government, which is otherwise a meaningful document if it were to revive it would be wonderful, the state Commission institution itself is mentioned in a way that I quote "that corruption risks have been detected and that the State Commission as a body is actually legally under normised." Someone here from the predecessors spoke in that sense, in fact, means that she has not yet been over those childhood diseases that body or institutions in that sense. It is therefore necessary to specify certain procedures, the powers themselves, the tasks themselves, and then enable that body to function in that right sense by an independent and independent body. I can see I'm running out of time, but I'll get back to you later, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2071	Thank you. Another replica, the esteemed representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2072	... the problem of corruption and the corrupt risks that arise in public procurement of 42 billion kunas with a better, more transparent availability of those funds can certainly be saved immediately and there is an even greater amount that would allow us to address some of the problems that citizens have especially at local level. [[Specially enabled.]] Here's because you've been coming from a local community where you've been the captain for many years, and that's exactly why I'm reporting right now, not because of you, but in general. So in 2014, the report was published for 2014, and that year an interesting scientific study was published, published by Vuk Vukovic of the Zagreb School of Management, who concluded in his research that politicians who are more involved in setting up public procurement are more likely to win the elections again in the next elections if they do not exaggerate in their manipulation. So he even saw that if local politicians go somewhere up to 25% of the funds intended for public procurement are deployed on not completely transparent criteria, they have a good chance of winning the election again because they kind of corrupt their electoral body where the mayors or mayors are. What did he do? He explored 300 cities and municipalities and 4845 companies that had 26 billion kuna jobs in those two years and only one data from a large study that is very indicative, so 327 companies with which these mayors and mayors had no employees. 783 million kunas of contracts were concluded with them, but what is additionally devastating even after they got the job of 193 companies still had no employees, and their bills had a seat of 506 million kuna. Here's an example of how in the local environment actually the public procurement control commission has a lot of work to do to prevent what's been going on all these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2073	Thank you. And the third replica, the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2074	Well, Mr. President, we had some different topics this morning and they're all tied up, they're tied up. We had, say, intelligence, the judiciary and I were wondering about public procurement where this synergy between intelligence services, the judiciary on corruption, because we all know, everyone who wants to invest here that corruption is the cancer of all post-Communist societies. How it is possible that in Serbia they have solved the problem of public procurement, as it is now accepted by law by the average price that there is no malfeasance, we did not do so. What did the former Government do if the state had 40,000 companies without any employees and some made revenue of half a million kunas or more? These are all sources of open information. Why isn't that settled? On this issue, is it analytical, who is doing national security and analysis assessments? Whoever's been doing this for the last 20 years has totally failed the exam because he didn't predict what's going to happen today, and that's almost financial failure, GDP is greater than 100%, external debt greater than 100% of GDP. We actually got, why don't we talk about it in public? The president of the former state is except for one element, which is hyperinflation. Until corruption is resolved here, no one will invest here. Somewhere last year we were 66 on the ranking list here somewhere with me thinking Bangladesh, now we're 56 so says Transparency International. I don't see in those assessments, and it's high time to solve crimes in the tax administration, public procurement and elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2075	Thank you. Following the debate, distinguished representative Radimir Cacic appeared on behalf of the Reformist and SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2076	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's first of all everything that's been said here except for the flat-rate estimates that are based on more or less demagogy is justified, important and it would be good to listen to a lot of things and try to apply them. This report should be accepted. It is one of the institutions that performs a serious and correct job relatively under our conditions. It is of great importance, and what is almost incredible but it is not only that we never distinguish what fleas and what elephants are, so in such a serious and responsible business where we talk about dozens of billions, let's say because of the budgetary constraints on that item we had at the beginning when the government began its term as 5 people for commissions. In other words, it's one commission itself, and one at a time when sick or anything stops working. So one situation is absolutely incredible and it took almost two years to correct that we came to 9 so that they could form 3 commissions and again there was no great benefit. So on quite operational things, I'd say the most ground floor is already falling. Of course, there's a very important thing that's mentioned here where once again something that's personally horrifying me, so the most terrestrial demagogy will lead us to commit suicide. That where you need absolutely top-of-the-line people, where you're talking about billions, you're going to subdue the entire system of state to a small terrestrial political point, starting with parliamentary deputies through ministers, and then all the professional services and all, and let's say, the public procurement commission, you get into a position that you don't have quality people who can seriously respond to the task. So careful, careful with those ideas. Personally, when the subject comes, I will suggest that the full pay be abolished at the very least to the representatives and ministers. In the event that I've been in a private business for years, I've mostly lived on capital, and I've never depended on paying in politics, nor do I depend on today. Well, there have been many such cases in history, property censorship, the Romans knew him, not just the Romans. No problem. Zero pays to ministers, Prime Ministers, but pay everyone else decent wages to carry out a responsible job including the state commission and professional services. This report is statistical data. The important change in the number of complaints is raising the threshold. Things are completely clear to us. In particular, one important information needs to be pointed out here, which is that we have new EU directives that came into force on 17.4.2014, and the deadline for implementation is 18.4.2016, so now. These directives, about 70 and maybe a little more, have been implemented because later we started the process but it is still 30 percent variable and it depends on each country whether or not it will apply some things. These directives have one interesting data in them, with a number of other things directly excluded from public procurement, banned in the public procurement of banks. They're shutting down the banks. I personally insisted in 2001, and the government accepted and introduced despite serious resistances to bank loans for both the state and local and central ones in competitions. Then there hasn't been any public procurement yet, especially not European procurement. I see here a colleague who will understand it very well, it's millions, tens of millions and hundreds of millions. When you negotiate loans of order, the size of a couple hundred million euros at 10, 15, 20 or 30 years, a small shift in percentages, in compensation accumulates tens and hundreds of millions. And to leave it without transparency, control and competition, even then, whatever happens is unacceptable. I would like to warn you that once this directive is implemented, that part will not be covered and the Government must react urgently by introducing a tendering obligation for loans. It won't be covered, it wasn't until 2001. Thus, banking lobbys and in the European Union have quite an impact. And there he likes to play a big game when it comes to billions without too much control. Here, what are we supposed to do here? We don't need to apply our practice that's most common, we write laws that hunt thieves. Thieves are thieves, there's police, there's investigation, there's SCOCKs, there's preparation through SOA, everything that goes. And the laws must be simple, as simple as possible, the fastest, most effective. And I remind you of the meaning of the word elegantly, the meaning of the word elegantly is not that we have a harmonized tie and a suit, the word elegantly means simply from this point to this point. And that's what you're looking for in this system. What's there to take special care of? For important and big things, and they're most often prepared seriously, so training, that's what we're talking about here, and once again, training is important. 198m euros fell for the third time, the jubilee road fell. For a long time, the Selo-Krists, no alibi, no alibi, no incompetence of the government and anyone who worked on it. It will be the subject of European funds in a few minutes or a few days, we have totaled 300m euros in and 2.5 years as long as we are in the European Union and on average we were able to spend a billion and a half a year, so we are not, if we look at the wallet. Contract 300, 100 add more agriculturals that are not contracts but are only cesium, transfer, 50% more we could make that only one project was seriously prepared. It's not. The application, for example, of an institute in a house that was completely unwisely applied to us for a spring building destroyed a company of 1500 people we had in the sale, that it had won that contract that was then to be won in the second competition, in the first competition. She didn't get it, she wouldn't end up firing 750 people, she'd get another 500 new people to hire because that's the size of the project. It's not made. I won't say for corruption, for incompetence and ignorance. Billions are at stake, thousands of human fates due to incompetence, it's an institute called in the house. Anyone who knew what the Institute of Public Procurement was in Europe would know it could have been applied. It's not. It's not the commission's fault. A few words about games. It's a game of appeal. True, there are all the companies that are playing appeal procedures and earn and live, well, especially on major projects. This is about fees. One simple method, one part of these companies is eliminated from the game already by the fact that the fee on the complaint is charged by taking over the file for the appeal, at a time of appeal and not during 10, 15 or 20 days click the commission called who announced the complaint to pay the fee, and he during that time plays the game with three, four or five bidders and asks them for a percentage not to make an appeal. So he's gonna complain. Pay the fee and complain, don't blackmail around. One of the big games that's played here is an alibi for public procurement. When I came to the ministry one of the first things I did I ordered in writing, then it was withdrawn no, that no one who has no legal obligation to go to public procurement should go to public procurement. Because why does public procurement serve such a purpose? So we can have cover that everything is clean, and the whole deal is done in preparation. Competitions are competitions, they have to be conducted, they have to be conducted fairly, correctly. Public procurement is just a mechanism. That abuse must not be allowed. Public procurement should only be carried out by those who are mandatory under European standards. Everything else must be subject to other rules and regulations. I guarantee you, because I know there's a whole series of regulations and regulations about competitions that are much stricter than public procurement when applied. So take care of the essence, not the form. When we talk about the little one, of course they're important, they're the most important ones. But for the average citizen of this country, smoke concessions are not meaningless, smokers and the mass of those going to concessions are important. They today have no reason to appeal for these fees, for they are more expensive than anything they can make that year, because their starting fee is 10,000 kuna. So let's show some common sense. Oh, no? It's not a problem for someone who offers a hundred million euros a job 100 grand in fees for appeal. But for someone whose total job is 20 thousand kunas or 30 or 50 complaints whose bottom fi 10 thousand kuna tells him, he tells him, don't complain, don't complain, don't complain. So what I would say is that a lot is done, that it has at a level of practice, of system functioning, etc. much more space, to introduce the key category of economically advantageous offers absolutely huge space because it is not the lowest price. We all know that, you know that very well. I think I accidentally did something more detailed because my whole life in business, a) even in competition and procurement a b) because the Public Procurement Administration was part of the ministry that I inherited, so I had a chance to recognize some key problems. So much has been done, the report should be accepted. But a very, very large space still stands before us. And it's well seen here that the minimal shifts are hundreds of millions and more, even a billion in this system that is ahead of us. And once again I plead, and if the government doesn't do it and I hope it will, we as Reformists will launch a legal initiative for the obligation to bid for banks. It's too much money, it's too expensive for Croatian citizens to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2077	We have a replica on this debate. Honored representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2078	I'm glad my colleague Cacic mentioned irregularities in public procurement. He's finding out about it probably a lot more and safer than I am. I can't talk firsthand about public procurement irregularities because I wasn't close to those, say, cases and I wasn't involved in the executive. But what I can talk about with knowledge and confidence is incompetence and ignorance in the public procurement system. So it doesn't matter if the State Commission has 8, 10 or 15 employees if they work in accordance with the regulations and if they work consciously and professionally and of course work morally. But Otto, then. What's important is, what are the two basic principles of public procurement? Well, they'll probably talk about it, and they'll talk about it later. Well, it's very public interest protection, first of all, and actually a healthy market game as a second. And if this has been made possible by my colleagues from the State Commission, then I think they've done their job adequately. What I've been trying to say, so I'm running out of time that the State Commission is not ultimately defined as an institution. And besides that there are still procedural problems, some of which are colleagues that he has presented as a representative of the State Commission in his report. So there are problems that colleagues have raised, and these are litigious problems. So that legal protection under the current principle is more than problematic because it is limited. Because the State Commission decides within the limits of these appeals allegations while other bodies, for example, should have taken care of this protection of the public interest I mention, which is the DORH and that is the Public Procurement System Administration. They almost have no influence at all here and would actually say that their share in these appeals procedures is almost insignificant. And that's what the real problem is, I see you nodding. And that is why the question can actually be asked justifiably, so with the restriction and control of legality and the question of the quality of public interest protection in these legal protection procedures in public procurement, as well as concessions. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2079	Replication response esteemed representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2080	I agree with everything that's been put forward, except technically, maybe my colleague didn't understand me all the way. The Commission consists of three members. Because of the volume of work they have, it is instructed that you can put together at least two commissions. So that's why this number is relevant. And I particularly agree and underline, and here it is underlined, the DORH deals with everything in this country, often things that are not under his authority, often the government has passed, very often the government has passed without a legal basis, and also it has passed, asked about every law opinion of the DORH. There's no need, no need for public procurement. There's no DORH what with it. The government responds and Parliament responds, the government responds to proposals and Parliament responds to decisions. There was a DORH involved, and here where the DORH has something to do and it's seriously got nothing to do with that DORH. So often you have it where you don't need it, it's your alibi, it's those covers. I hope things change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2081	Thank you. Next up for discussion is the Club of Representatives of the Most and the Honorable Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2082	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] The topic of public procurement is extremely important because my predecessors have spoken of it as a public interest, it's about public money and it's a very sensitive issue. We will never be able to resolve this issue until the end, but every small shift as said will bring millions or hundreds of millions of savings. MOST will give a positive opinion on this finding with several meanings of the proposals and opinions that I will present here below. The report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures pointed out that this body has decided within the limits of the contested allegations and is subject to a significant limitation in its official duties. This means that the State Commission cannot react to the observed irregularities in public procurement procedures but only has in its jurisdiction to act on the complaints submitted. This implies the restriction of the control of legality under official duty and thus raises the question of the quality of public interest protection in the procedures of legal protection in public procurement, concessions and public-private partnerships. In line with the above, the legal subjugation of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is obviously a clear matter. Furthermore, it is noted that the increase in the charges for the initiation of the appeal procedure has led to a reduction in the availability of legal protection in particular in concession procedures and in part in public procurement. The increase in compensation did not take into account the current economic situation and discriminated against small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as complainants in the procurement procedures and we agree here with previous speakers who really bring small and medium-sized entrepreneurs into an unequal position. Although it was an intensities on the other side of the State Commission to reduce the pressure on these strong complaints, we see, however, that another type of damage has been done. The occurrence of administrative courts in charge of lawsuits against decisions by the State Commission has led to a return of cases in the annulment of judgments extending the duration of proceedings as well as the inconsistency of the legal practice in public procurement established over the past 10 years. On the basis of the above, there is a space for progress in the functioning of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. We particularly consider positive in the report observed anomalies in the functioning of the State Commission, a high percentage of resolved cases and a rational number of employees compared to the systematisation allowed by a higher number of employees. I further cite the concrete proposals of the MOST that could improve this situation. To amend the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in order to extend the scope of the action by official duty, more specifically so that the Commission is free to act in the event of the detection of corruption and irregularities beyond the frameworks of the appeal frameworks submitted. To open tenders for the President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. To amend the Public Procurement Act or to introduce an obligation to publish a register of so-called ‘public procurement’. Bagatel’s purchases or purchases of small values. It's probably up to 200 grand, actually. Furthermore, the establishment of a single online interface for all public authorities, including all public undertakings, through which information will be provided on contracted procurement contracts and enable the same authorities to make automated public procurement registers. This is very important because by introducing even more information, this whole process will be more transparent, more accessible to many who can then verify how much market principles are respected. Then conduct a broad public debate on changes to the legal framework for public procurement based on detected problems and the recommendations set out in the 2014 report on the work of the State Commission. For example, in our opinion, the lowest and highest price should be eliminated immediately and even more economic best price criteria should be affirmed. So, weighting other variables that will take care of the quality of final work or the purchase of certain goods. We propose the establishment of a central body for the unification of public procurement for all taxpayers of public procurement. This is very important, and I think that this central body could in certain cases mean, and especially when it comes to small purchases of bagatelna to be able to do ex post analyses, so that we can see how many 3 offers are the market. Because I think, or we think, that this is to a significant extent simply not so. The anti-corruption action shall be strengthened and greater transparency shall mean that legal practice is publicly available, all decisions shall be made public with the names of parties participating in certain transactions, better access to information, the possibility of public insight into the work of the State Commission and, of course, to speed up the processing of requests for access to information. And in the end, I'm just going to comment on what MP Cacic said and I support this obligation to tender for bank loans. What's this about? I'm going to give you a concrete example, when I did some research on HAC, Croatian highways, so I went, have some public procurement base, and let's say you see there, for example. calls for a 100m-euro loan, for example. In addition to the currency clause, you see that it is 100 million and you see in the record the final amount that is increased by interest but you see no deadline or interest rate. You with two variables, without two variables you can't calculate which bank there was better, such equations, these are insolvent equations. And another thing, there were loans supplied as potatoes or sand to pour road means. I think we could give me some more examples, I accidentally went to look at it and it's simply inadmissible, it's intransparent and how you'll know which bank was more acceptable, which was more competitive, etc.? So, once again, I stress this is an extremely important public matter of public interest. It is necessary to keep moving forward, so increasing transparency is not, of course, easy. It's a constant struggle as well as on the part of the tax administration, it's some similar things, but I think that increasing transparency, informing and changing the law, some parts of the Public Procurement Act can certainly result in better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2083	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2084	Thank you very much. I welcome these proposals from my colleague Lovrinović, especially this part concerning amendments to the law and regarding the single info point if I have understood well about public procurement, information and, of course, this competition for the director. However, I am interested when you say a fellow amending the law whether it also includes this legislation which is not yet in line with the European Commission because it is not until the end, that was the exhibitor I mentioned in my statement on complaints, for the ESF, for these structural funds it is about the money of 2 billion and 300 thousand kuna, and goods and works and services are included. So that part of the legislation is still not fully harmonised. Is this amendment to the law going in that direction or is it an amendment to the law relating to internal arrangements, tasks and powers of the state commission or will it go in this broad sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2085	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2086	I appreciate the question. I think, of course, I'm not a narrow expert on legal matters, but here, if it's about amending the law, then it's about harmonising these changes concerning the state commission and the public procurement law itself. Because if you said yourself that some things need to be brought into line with EU practice then it would be an opportunity, because I think it was, it would not be good to make changes in one sphere and that they could potentially have negative effects on the public procurement process itself. So, in conclusion, I think that it is necessary to change both means using good experience and the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2087	Thank you. Furthermore with the debate, it is up to the distinguished representative, Milorad Batinić, of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2088	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, Matesic, with co-worker and co-worker every year when discussing the State Commission's report, I see some progress in the very structure of the report and also in the statistical indicators. What I would like to say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Liberal Democrats club is that we will support this report of the State Commission with this, and we also support the Commission's efforts, because not only from the reports, but from these statistics it is visible that they justify their existence and certainly that the work is very demanding, responsible and precisely all of these allegations that are listed in the report from the preventive anti-corruption action, from the recommendations that are given and which are most interesting to us because there is, in practice, some of the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, some kind of examinations. I say we will support it and what certainly, I have one remark that was contained in previous years' reports, it is the total number of public procurement procedures in the Republic of Croatia by public contracting authorities. I haven't been able to read it here for exactly why you don't have a number of appeal procedures to compare it to. So you can see what is not only the scope and when we talk about all these elements that are highlighted in the report of anti-corruption action, the preventive primarily does not see the effect and effect. What would certainly and this is supported and with these recommendations I would call them, means the characteristic errors of the bidder and the client primarily when you look at and compare to this table by the public orderrs. Of course, there are always the same ones, and we can even call them renaissances who are wrong in public procurement procedures. When you have 24% of the complaints received from the total percentage of public procurement procedures, if you take that one-quarter of the total and you have then, I will not name them 29%, 27.68%, 86%, the question is whether these public contractors are allowed to do these procedures at all. Practically from 10, 6, on 6 appeal procedures, they got a negative grade, or even at 7. It is not primarily the fault of the Public Procurement Act itself, I think that by managing the chamber, or those managing it, whether it is the ministries, state-owned companies, mostly public authorities, that they should, in some sense, agree, that I am not to have the State Commission judge in such a way but to be given far more high-quality, I would say more strongly to the State Audit Office, which, by their definition, transmits things to the higher authorities. There comes another moment which is also pointed out. We haven't had too many complaints. In fact, the work is being done, and I hope that we are expecting more and more in the coming years, and these are public procurement procedures concerning funding from the European Union funds. What I would also like to say is whether the question, of course, must be the competent ministry, when you look at the very structure of income and expenditure and when you look at the price, the amount of compensation the complainant must pay is practically one of the few to say state institutions that have a profit of 100 and over 120% to say so. This is a question of course that needs to be discussed whether this is an inability in view of the amount of compensation and the colleagues have certainly pointed out in the debate, whether it is a limiting factor, probably for some. I think there's a place where you can go with the price correction in that part. As for also, there were questions, and one large majority of the debate, I took it positively, went into the part of some of the proposals, although it is not the subject of the Public Procurement Act just to examine the possibilities, to find the best solutions that you and your team have noticed very well, wrote in this report. These are certain recommendations, guidelines for the correction of the Public Procurement Act itself. This mentions the cheapest offer and we can talk a lot about it but the big address is a competent ministry which should be primarily examined, analysed and proposed by some other solutions. I say, I suggest that for the next report that one parallel table with the total number of public procurement procedures, the public authorities that we can see exactly what order, the size of the public procurement is. And I'm just using the opportunity, so local self-government units and some other public authorities are required to call a public tender for credit. I agree that certain companies do not, however, say, this is all a matter of regulation because it is a subject that should certainly be discussed. Once again, we will support the report, I hope, as you have always respected the comments from the debate in the House, that you will also respect this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2089	Thank you. We have two replicas at your hearing. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2090	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague says public procurement errors and those who often repeat them, they are listed in the report. However, there is a question of what to call it, whether it is a mistake, what is repeated often or is corruption. Corruption that means destroying competition and the one that affects the development of our society, mainly to be high-level competitiveness and corruption is the number one problem of every society, including Croatian societies. That's where the question is, I'm asking you where the DORH is. This is what Mr. Cacic said earlier, whether DORH's selectivity is there, so in public procurement, a company that was in bankruptcy opens up a sister's firm so that its co-operant and the job that he got during public procurement does not finish a job like my company Cetina in Sinj's collapse 50 years old, owned by the county, is also familiar with former health minister Varga, about the problem. One company that has a low-building tradition for 50 years is due to such unsolicited works of failure. There's 100 people on the road. It's one of the special companies in the Chetino area. It means where the DORH is, where there are institutions that are supposed to mean in cooperation with those who carry out the audit to do all the tasks. The DORH is selective and on small things shows muscles and where it should protect competitiveness and the company obviously failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2091	Replica response, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2092	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bull, that life writes both odds and corruption and all sorts of things. I can agree that we do, because your debate and your replica I've come to understand for the best of all, that's how I'm going to try to answer. The state commission when we read the law by which it must function, it is not in the part that just detected irregularities, but if you have followed, and I see that you have listened, so it is the State's audit that, by definition, sends the old detected irregularities to the State's Attorney's office for action, and further the State's Attorney's Office has to work. I know that, but I believe that it can be done by correcting itself, by the procedure of the Public Procurement Act itself, which is always, does not mean if it was once adopted or by which option that it is ideal. It's not ideal, life writes stories and exactly this kind of situation and this practice, and most importantly, it's the State Commission's most appropriate to point out these irregularities that should be incorporated into the law itself. Of course, I believe primarily that even as citizens that we are mandatory, we are obliged and especially now as parliamentary representatives or officials of some other level to point out also as natural persons to the DORH to certain irregularities, to certain knowledge that it has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2093	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Batinic, I agree with you that it would be good for certain public contracting authorities whose decision to choose the most favourable offers was to be examined in a large way. You're absolutely right. However, it is also not less important to see which public contractors have seen through this report and over the years have disabled the realization of very large projects that could have stimulated GDP growth, but there were also words during the morning about the construction of the Long Selo – Križevci road, a 100 million kuna project, i.e. 150 million euros, which is exclusively unknown and I would say the politics that took place in this public company HZ Infrastructure, made it impossible for me to realise the project. I will remind you, therefore, that the government has failed to implement this project throughout the term of office even though there was complete documentation for its realization. Not only have we not realised this project, not only has the competition been annulled three times, but it is due to such unhappiness, negligence or not, which other word would have found one very important Croatian company that has practically reached its knees and is almost in bankruptcy precisely because I would say first of all the politics that took place at the government level when the government replaced the previous HZ Infrastructure head, set up a new person who could not realise the competition that was under way. And precisely because of this kind of approach, which was already in the realisation process, the competition has been cancelled again, it is happening again from the beginning, and we still haven't made a decision to build this very important project, and I say its realization should have been greatly encouraged. the entire construction sector in Croatia. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2095	Replica response, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2096	So I think I'm going to answer that, I'm going to sublime the debate in the section as far as I'm concerned, I can't remember exactly which colleague pointed it out right now, which means reducing and paying the employees of the State Commission and generally on the conduct of a proactive policy against state officials and substitutors. If you want quality, you have to pay for it. So, all the employees of the furniture especially in the part of the public procurement, which has been an extremely complex thing since 2013, means where we have taken over a series of directives practically from day to day something new is happening, and practice also confirms a number of new things. There's nothing left for you but to pay your profession quality or take someone and pay someone who can do it so you don't make a mistake. And, of course, education, education, education. In this part of the political part of the replica whether anything was wanted, whether it wasn't wanted I think we can guess, we can guess if something was going to, whether it wasn't. Whether public procurement is an annulment, withdrawal or whatever the excuse for unrealization of a project is. But I wouldn't want to speculate in that part right now, which is the main reason. But I certainly am here at the point where people who do this kind of work, like all other officials and tenants in the responsible part of the job, mean the executives who decide, who make decisions, should be adequately rewarded.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2097	Thank you. There's an individual debate coming up. The first one came forward by Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2098	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the way we are having our discussion today, unlike the discussions we had in previous days, and I hope that this will become a practice in the work of the Croatian Parliament. What I'm trying to say on this subject is that although we've come off the subject quite often today in our presentations, we've talked about improving the entire public procurement system, it's good. However, today is the topic of the agenda report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. What is to be said is that the Public Procurement Act regulates the procedures, i.e. the processes for the conclusion of contracts or framework agreements for the supply of goods and services. As we have already said, and it is very important to repeat a lot of things once again in this complex public procurement process is happening outside the jurisdiction of the Commission itself. So, all that happens outside the public commission's jurisdiction in this complex public procurement system means the process of preparing an analysis of the public procurement procedures themselves which are actually something that happens completely outside of that system and something that the Commission can't really influence if it's not in the very complaint. I would therefore support the presentation of a number of colleagues who said investment in professional personnel here is extremely important. A colleague Milenić even mentioned that we must believe in officials who are working on preparing these processes themselves. However, I also think that we also need to create such a legislative framework that will fully reduce the potential risks to corruption, and also reduce the risks of ignorance that is evident in the area of public procurement, especially when we talk about those who are preparing these procedures. In addition to the commission's work, I want to give them credit for their efficiency in their work. With their percentage of case resolution and an average of 40 days, they are at the very European summit. You're doing this whole job with 29 employees compared to what you're supposed to do with the IA Decision, which is a far larger number. Also, your transparency of work is one high level because all your decisions are publicly available and published on Internet portals. What I certainly think should change, and how much knowledge I have in preparation are amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, is that the deadlines for appeals should be harmonised with the deadlines of the ZUP. We here in public procurement procedures have deadlines that last from 5 to 10 days, and I think given the complexity of the procedures that are being conducted that are relatively short deadlines. According to the ZUP, the deadlines are 15 days, and since this is an administrative procedure, I don't think there's any reason why we're not going to comply with these procedures precisely in order to protect the interests of those who declare complaints. Also, I certainly think that the idea of reducing the fee for appeal should be supported because it does in some way restrict the constitutional rights of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. What we may have most pollemized, discussed, is the criteria for selecting the best bidder, so the lowest price or other economic criteria. I think we should find a model in which the most favourable offer and other economic criteria will lead to an optimal situation in the choice of bidders to prevent damage. For example, we have a situation today in Dubrovnik where the main city street has been closed for 4 months because the right criteria for selecting the best, the most favourable bidder was the lowest price, and even worked without a building permit. So, the whole of Dubrovnik is in chaos, collapse just because it wasn't fully concerned about the public interest. In addition, I also support what we have already said very much about the fact that, as far as bagatile procurement is concerned, up to two hundred thousand kunas for services and up to 500 thousand kuna for works should be prescribed and the obligation to adopt a general act and that the register of such purchases should be fully public and transparent. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2099	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I do not agree with you in one section when you mentioned that part of the debate on improving the legislative framework regarding the public procurement process outside the subject of today's report has made recommendations at the end of its report on how and in what sense should we intervene to improve the whole process of the public procurement process. So in that part, I think that most speakers have just been directed towards this final part of the report made by the Commission because no one I've seen has had more significant objections to the work of the Commission itself, especially the report itself. But what I wanted to say was that you rightly mentioned the possibility of corruption in the entire procurement process. I must say that the procurement process does not end with a decision to choose the most favourable bidder. That's the part where it ends, I'd say the commission's work. However, contracts that often bounce and do not comply with the conditions of competition follow. This is more the job of each other's judicial bodies in the Republic of Croatia, and we who live in the south of Croatia in Dubrovnik-Neretva County have witnessed that the procedures are being conducted in order to process the person who did not sign the contract respected the conditions of the competition on the one hand. On the other hand, not only is the basic contract not in line with the terms of the tender, not the basis for which the most favourable bidder was chosen, but that the contract has been amended several times and thus has been fully derivated in the whole process which has until then been conducted in accordance with the law and which is based on the law. I therefore agree with you here that when we talk about public procurement, then the State Commission and the procedure under the control and control of the State Commission is guided by good, quality and quality supervision because it is still the process of interested bidders who are not selected as the most favourable but followed by that procedure which should also be trusted, which should also be in accordance with the law. And perhaps even on that trail should continue in a certain way to control the commission until the moment it really does not realize the procedure that has been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2101	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Next for individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Katalinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2102	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As MOST colleagues have said before, we will accept this report. It's a series of statistics that are accurate and show the reality of how many complaints have come to the agency itself. What I'd like to observe here from another angle is that there are a lot of employers in the Republic who, because of the setting up of public competition, have given up any competition at all. So actually you can't get caught on anything legally incorrect. However, there are a whole series of mechanisms on which you can set up a tender for the bidder that seems most appropriate to you. So we have the abuse of the instrument assessment of the offerer’s ability where, for example, in the assessment of the offerer’s ability is sought. that there are two certified database administrators and for this particular case it is enough to have one. And so I can state here for hours how we were excluded as businessmen from the public tendering process. Also very often it is the case that in the description of the items of purchase is indicated, the subject of purchase is specified to such detail that, in practice, only one product can satisfy such a criterion. If no one complains about such a public competition procedure, he goes without a problem. We also all know that very often we agree on invitation tenders, call competitions, let's agree with two partner companies let's offer the three of us and I'll pass on that competition. And I can say from personal experience, bad experience in these public competitions that it's almost impossible to pass if you didn't first ensure a good relationship to pass at that competition. For example, I am going back to my personal experience again, we have been torn down by a tender where we were at least 10% more favourable financially with the same quality of the product and it was brought down because the statement of impunity by the responsible person of society was not on the correct form. So that's what I think, of course, we paid 7 thousand kuna fees in order to even complain, I think such objections, that it should be included in that it could be subsequently delivered because this is not essentially wrong documentation, we had a statement, but it was on the wrong form. It's full of cases like that. Companies give up such competitions because we know in advance that at least 80% of the competition is already agreed in advance. What I'm curious about is whether you're following these things and without anyone reporting it, or whether you have plans in the future to monitor such competitions where the whole system is being abused, the whole mechanism of public competition procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2103	Thank you. Replica Tulio Demetlika, a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's Mr. Katalinic's position in this act of his debate as a bidder. I wouldn't agree with the findings because the ones we're giving outside these bids don't stand what's said to be 80% fixed. However, through public procurement procedures and a transparent fact is that we who order and protect this public interest are given the highest quality service or works for the most favourable price. That's why there's a term that says the most favourable offer, not the cheapest offer. The fact is, I'm going to say one example, here's the former health minister, ordering a new ambulance. It is known from experience that I do not know it I will say in Istria the most favourable citroen, i.e. The best. How do you conduct the tender to prefer I want as I don't know the hospital director or emergency medical care to buy a citroen because over the past 20 years I've proven that the citroen is the best. 'Cause if I buy a Ford medical technician, I don't know how to keep him in there, he's got to intervene on his knees because he's the Citroen. If I want to buy coke for kids at school I have to write already how and so I prefer a particular product, and it's safe that the customers prefer that product that's quality, and not that I have someone who doesn't have any reference because it's 10% cheaper and now it's got to be accepted and I'm bringing it in, I'm doing damage to myself as well as to the public sector because I chose a cheaper one and we have a worse quality to pay for later. So don't stand that finding of those who offer, let them offer what is quality and let them have references.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2105	Thank you. And the last individual debate on this point, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I am going through this exhibit of mys to touch precisely on the problem of the entire public procurement system that constantly stretches in practice and can be read through two concepts. I would also like to point out here that I will touch on concrete examples that occur in economic terms and that make it very difficult to work on certain businesses. Therefore, the irregularities in my opinion are the number one irregularity and inconsistency in the work of the State Commission. Under two illogical provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Under the number of one irregularities and discrepancies in the work of the State Commission, point 1 in its work, the State Commission often makes a completely different decision in the same or similar case, so it is not the Commission's practice, but any council that decides in the case makes its decision which may be different from what has already been decided. For example number one, the State Commission shall take its decisions even in the power of the contracting authorities for which they are not authorised, as Article 69.zakona is prescribed that conditions be determined by the contracting authority rather than by the commission. In the case of the procurement of works, the contracting authority did not indicate anywhere in the tender documentation that the tenderer had to submit certificates for asphalt mixtures, however, although there are asphalt mixes with quantities 0 of the commission concluded among other things that the selection decision was invalidated because the tenderer did not provide certificates for asphalt mixtures although this was not requested anywhere. This leads to the commission taking power over itself to decide the case as it wishes. Example 2 in the same case, the Commission decides differently. In this example, one commission panel excluded the bidders because the contract on the lease of a business space which is one of the conditions does not prove that the offerer has a business space available and the contract says that it will be available in the event of subcontracting with a third party. There is again a complaint in the repeated case, but now the second panel of commissions with the same bidder for the same contract confirms even on page 3 that such a contract is still in order. So these are concrete examples. Furthermore, we have procedures before the state commission, they last too long, although the average of 40 days is not too long, but we know that certain items last very, very long. During the course of the procedure, a new procedure cannot be initiated so that a large part of the public money that cannot be used is frozen before the Commission, my colleagues said, and these are huge funds that stand in one place for a long, long and long time. There is no responsibility of the commission or decisions of the commission are final and executive. There is only the possibility of raising the administrative dispute. What does that mean in everything? Nothing. Which still takes too long. As long as the damage is done, it may already occur. Under four, illogicalness in assessing bids by the commission. For example 3., one commission council rejects the claim that the bidder was to work on a basis of 3 decimals, e.g. 0,955 while after a few months, the second council of the commission adopts an identical appeal order. The illogical provisions of the Public Procurement Act under number 2. The law also allows for forms that do not meet the conditions of procurement to get a job in public and eventually. The offerer simply adds to his offer a written statement which does not even have to be certified, some X companies that do not participate in or have anything to do with this procurement that this bidder can use their references and that is one example. The second example under number 4. In the case of the procurement of works, the bidder has been asked to prove that it has not been blocked in the last three months. As evidence, he delivers bon 2. However, it is to be assumed that the bidder is still blocked because the offer provided a bon 2 from the firm that has nothing to do with the offer and is not competing at all for the job, it is a simple statement signed by the director of the firm, although the bidder is likely to be blocked as the most favourable must be selected despite the fact that the other bidders have a financial situation. Example 5, hypothetically said person X is starting a company today, there's an employee, he can contact a job for example tomorrow. 100 million of something or, for example, the construction of airports, schools, kindergartens, etc., all that needs to be accomplished is to be registered for construction jobs and no additional certificates are required and the like. A simple registration at a commercial court must be impunity and must not have any debt to the tax administration. All other references of the type number of persons employed, references made, identical works, machines etc., can be collected from third parties, so companies that will not be present at all in the offer but only give their references to be included in the offer and all those companies that will not be present at all in the offer but simply give their references to be included in the offer and all those companies are not responsible for anything. This is prescribed in Article 71(2), paragraph 72 and paragraph 6. The indeterminateness of the offer community institutions can all do anything regardless of the experience. I'll just tell you about the costs accumulated in the appeal proceedings that a public contractor in two years paid for one procurement procedure in the name of appeal cca. 500 thousand kuna complaints of documentation, selection decisions, cancellations, etc. But we've changed that a lot, so hopefully we'll be far and far and better. The technical characteristics according to the law are unarranged. In example 8 one bidder may report to three similar competitions at the same time and offer one and the same pager each and if it is most favourable to get these three jobs with one and the same machine, regardless of what is required in each competition that the machine must be constantly available. The most economically favourable offer, we talked a lot about here today, is not the least, and is wanted to be the cheapest, not well-determined, or not related to the subject of purchase, so the customers have a large space to adjust the criteria they need. In example 9, according to the score set by the client, the majority of the points were related to the number of machines the client owns, although the subject of the purchase was construction material. In turn, the one who proved to have a number of relevant working machines received a number of points, and thus the job regardless of the earlier references in the delivery of the required material. And finally the conclusion. It is necessary to speed up the appeal process, introduce the Commission's responsibility and establish a second-degree body for the Commission to correct the Commission's illogicalities and irregularities, but that would balance the Commission's practice. Further correct irregularities in the law that allow unfair collection and application of references without any responsibility. Furthermore, more precisely define the terms of the most economically favourable offer, regulate the way in which the costs are settled in a fairer way because the cost paid in the 2014 budget is 20 million kuna according to the 2014 report on the work of the DCOM adopted by the Parliament and to complete the conditions of technical characteristics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2107	Thank you. We have three replicas for this debate. The first for replicas came from distinguished representative Drazen Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2108	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues Lucic made a very extensive and detailed note and pointed to some irregularities, i.e. the deformities with which we all live together. I must say that I am the head of one of the largest cities in the Republic of Croatia and that at all times I am responsible for carrying out purchases from 50 to 100 million kuna depending on the financial year. These are all the problems that we meet daily, so that we do not say that we do not carry out our duty, or our constituents, to our fellow citizens, to achieve prosperity, or to achieve the budget ourselves as we should. The law on public procurement, the state institution and all other institutions have a very, very important and significant role in the whole process, given that you are in some way and the regulator, but that you and those who are either preventing or speeding up can therefore and speed up these processes that are not just urban, county, municipal, but are also very important in the transfer of capital, so from a budget that is secure capital. This is best known by those who appear in competitions until the end of the day, namely prosperity or increasing the standard of living in our cities. I just want to say that I only have a few suggestions that I'm asking you to consider, or to appreciate, that first of all, this inequality in decision-making is noticed and I ask you to make sure that it counts. To consider shortening the deadline instead of 30 to reduce it to 15 days and to apply those 15 days to institutions such as the remonstrative right, so that a complaint can be resolved on its own by the contracting authorities, to apply the right of the bond, or that the obligation to resolve the complaint is therefore resolved in a place where it is certainly best that there is no delay and that transparency is certainly applied. What matters, because based on your decisions, or based on what will be transparent We do or conduct procurement, and then reduce the possibility of further complaints, and then we slow this whole process down. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2109	Replica reply, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2110	My colleague Barisic, you are really coming from one of the largest cities in the Republic of Croatia, but I myself have been mayor for 12 years in a small town, and these are all the shortcomings and problems of public procurement of the State Commission that I have met not only for 12 years, but also today when I am no longer mayor. Because all these irregularities come right from that sector, from those people who are directly in the living room dealing with this. And that's why all of our proposals that have been made today must really be included in all of the new proposals in the construction of a new law of public procurement that must go according to the urgent procedure because this, indeed, public procurement law can no longer remain as it is. And the very well - meaning counsel that has come should be directed to those who will write a new law. Who's writing new laws? It's written by people who aren't interested enough in the field that these are problems, and that's why all these words you've heard today from us have to be transferred to a relevant place where new laws will be written and that's why in the future we'll have far better public procurement and we won't have any problems like we have today. Because we've just witnessed that our vast resources are frozen just because of the indiscretion. Otherwise, in Croatia and in our legal system, we have so many things unsaid where, especially legally, by looking at one interpretation of the law, you can interpret it one way or the other. Those people who are dealing with law certainly know far better than I do, but we must do something about it if we are to achieve prosperity in economic terms, then we must certainly put all the problems we have talked about in the law and that there are no ambiguous solutions, because that way we will certainly speed up all these capital investments that we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2111	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In one part where he mentioned his colleague Lucic for 40 days, I would disagree. In fact, 40 days is the average, we know it's a lot longer. The law says it has to be 30 days. These 30 days or 40 unfortunately stalls the whole process, and I repeat, it's holding all our investments back. I will set an example as well as a fellow Lucic who tied himself to examples. An example of the restoration of the only elementary school to begin with the first day of the annual school holidays, means 15.06. and must be completed by 15.09. If the appeal takes 40 days large, you 10 days until the deadline for appeal we are immediately at 90 days. Budgets are made in January. If the public procurement process is not implemented this year, the primary school is not resolved, we may transfer it to the next year if the funds in the Republic of Croatia's Budget will be provided. We have an example this year when we're going to bring budgets, I don't know when investments are going to happen this year. We therefore insist that, through the amendments to the law, these deadlines are minimised and those unjustified complaints simply to find a way to protect investors from signing the contract as soon as possible and start working.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2113	Replica reply, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2114	I couldn't agree more. You can see that all these people today who have had a certain debate come from their cities with specific examples. I think that's the best indication that in the shortest time period, we're just changing the law because I was just about to refer to specific examples. But not on one or two, on a few examples here that prove that public procurement is wrong and that the State Commission also in one case solves it like this, and yet in that same case, on the other hand, solves it differently. So I'm asking how is that possible? And look, when we talk about 40 days, it's, you have public procurement that's simple, so they make up an average of 40 days. However, all the public procurements that are so to say capitalally far greater are also making a more extensive review and they are taking up time in fact. And those that are simpler make that average of 40 days. So I pray that the time has finally come, and we have been talking for years about how we are going to make the public procurement system really transparent, simple, and to this day we haven't done it yet. Can't we, and we've witnessed that we've oversaw hundreds of laws from other countries, so let's go and see where a certain country has written a certain public procurement and which is truly enforceable, so let's recapture if we don't know how to make this law ourselves, so we can paint it and make it in Croatia so we don't have any problems like this that my colleagues have talked about, and so I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2115	The last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2116	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Lucic, I will replicate to you, in fact, and I have listened very closely to you. We have two levels of public procurement here. I understand the problem relatively well because I was in the system when I was head of one office I was in the public procurement system. One level is the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. They are not responsible for all the sins of public procurement. And the second level for me is the customer and the seller. And I think the beginning of all the evils of public procurement or corruption at this level that I mention is the client and seller. And so the moment we have people who are very professional, who are honest, then somewhere that spiral of evil will be interrupted. That'll be all, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2117	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2118	My colleague, I agree with you. I didn't, so you realized that I was saying one thing is public procurement and the other is commission. I had a grudge against both the State Commission and those who wrote the law. The commission didn't write the law, she controls it, right? But since we've all been discussing here today and the State Commission has heard all this, so let's let the law-writers just pass on all the problems because what I'm talking about, what you're talking about is a colleague from Labin, a colleague from Great Gorica, we're using examples. This is not what she said, these are the actual facts that really hold back economic development from every environment because we are suffering from this very poor public procurement. And imagine how much they suffer then those who get a job, hire funds, and ultimately don't get that job because there's simply a cancellation of the competition itself. And then you know how it goes. The question is whether you can end any larger investment in the year at all. And you end up losing a year. Therefore, all of us here today who are discussing this must be transferred to the relevant place and when a new Public Procurement Act is written it would be good, I cannot say who should be involved, but from the real sector and people who face problems daily should be heard. They will not decide, they will not write the laws, and we here from this Parliament will simply, for many years in such affairs, give our examples and our advice. It doesn't have to be accepted at the same time, but it's very important that this procedure be implemented in such a way because otherwise, if we don't ask anyone anything again, only those people in four walls sitting there will be written by law and these are still major problems and there will be nothing of it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2119	Thank you. Here is the final on behalf of the applicant Goran Matesic, president of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2120	Let me present one court of law. A point that the legislator wanted to achieve by an annual report and by a work called the public procurement assessment to give an analysis and boost the debate. And here's what I'm finding out is that no matter how much you and your remarks and criticism this report has done. I owe some answers to questions, for example, to the HDZ Representatives Club. In our report, there is a sum of the estimated value of public procurement, but only those of the EC Funds, i.e. the European Structural Funds, that is 2 billion and 300. We didn't give a total of all the items of public procurement, it's 23 billion. Well, then, fellow Boric, when he puts it into that ratio, it's no longer 40% less, but it's somewhere but a couple like that. I won't answer to anything. I owe another question to the HNS Representatives' Club about the ratio of the number of posts, so public procurement contracts and complaints. So 8.8% of the total number of public procurement goes to appeal proceedings. It's a piece of information that wasn't provided by law, but we dropped it. It is useful to be inside because it can, when followed for many years, then conclude how reliable the system is and how much users use legal protection at all. Many of you have talked about the deadlines, the deadlines are the decision of the State Commission are a matter of which several segments are affected. One segment is those who are absurd, but precisely those who are most motivated to make the appeal procedure quickly complete these are the orders. We often have to order late with the delivery of documentation. Orders could be made as soon as he gets a complaint and he's nostified, no matter what he gets a call from the State Commission to deliver the documentation. By doing so, one part of this deadline that we are all talking about, and in which we should say so, Croatia is one decent leader amongst the speed of resolution in the EU of appeal cases. One part of that time limit is only the technical time limit in which it communicates with the parties because the principle of contradiction applies when one party must deliver an indication of the other party, exchange evidence with each other if they are evidence that arises for the first time. And in our analysis you can see that from the moment the file is completed, when all the papers are inside and evidence that you can work that deadline is shorter than this deadline from the moment the appeal was made until the decision was made. With regard to your observations from 1 to 4 of the honourable representative Lucic, which concerns the State Commission, is not the consistency of the council. You were obviously talking about some specific items. The parliamentary debate is not for that. We're offering to take a look at these passages. I am sure that we will come to the conclusion of the next, which is that it is not exactly the same identical situation, but that it is similar situations in which, among other things, the construction of legal protection in which the State Commission is moving as we think, and a certain number of MPs have seen it as a lack, that the State Commission is moving only within the limits of the allegations of appeal just as the complainants have set up the structure. And it's possible that even in our decisions, when it comes to the same or very similar fact, we have a different practice. That's something we said was a lack of regulation. What we're doing is that although we're working in different councils when it comes to an object that he's previously been in a complaint and we've got more and more cases to appear in, one subject of procurement that appears two times in a complaint. What is quite certain is that we always take care of and make our decision, we control it, and we have to do it because the level of the elements that complainants with stages can complain about is narrowing down. So if, for example, the complaint was made the third time in the same supply case, the complainant could no longer complain about what he could have complained about the first time. He can only complain about new facts and new evidence. I don't know if I've answered all the questions. I probably am. The most economically favourable offer is one of the big issues of public procurement, big issues. 5%, 5.7% of the appeal cases in which the criteria of the most economically favourable offer appear before the State Commission and 1.4% in relation to the total number of public procurements refer to the criteria of the most economically favourable offer. It's too little to use that criterion. We think that neither he nor the law is sufficiently elaborated, nor because it is a complex criterion, that the methodology of his application should also be developed and that he should work intensively on education. In some other public procurement systems, the most economically advantageous offer is far more used, for example, in America, which is not really to compare at this point with us, it is about 80 to 90%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2121	Thank you. Here's to your discussion we have two replicas. The right esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Matisic, when Mr Boris spoke on behalf of the club about the reduced volume of public procurement in 2014 he also thought about the report but thought about reducing activities in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if you are looking at the state budget for 2013 and 2014 which is practically the time and time of this report, then you will see that in the state budget for investments in non-financial assets are lower expenditures by 25%. So every fourth investment thus decreased in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is clear that all public budget users, public procurement bonds, are then made clear that there must also be a reduction in the volume of works covered by the public procurement project. If we add that to the public companies when some of them are also tied to the budget, you will see that Croatian roads are also an extra budget user such as HAC and HEP etc., etc., that they had significantly reduced activities in those years. And then that conclusion about the reduced volume of public procurement of these years in Croatia is fully explained and justified and is actually based on data from the state budget and on reports on the business of public enterprises in those years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2123	Thank you. And another replica of the distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2124	Well, fellow Matesic, of course, I listened to what you said, but I said here, I said, I did not say this, and if we have time and if you continue to act this duty, I will definitely come to you and present this to you all together. But it's also illogical for me that you, as a state commission, don't have another control of yourself that you're the last and you say you're done, you're sending on a administrative dispute that's going to last for years. What's worth getting me as an entrepreneur is a administrative dispute based on that case you refused in a few years. Well, that doesn't mean anything to me anymore as an entrepreneur. That's why another really controlling would have to be to make it better if you'd made a mistake for that other step commission to pass the appeal that you refused. And that's why in the new proposal, exactly the law that's going to be written, we need to speed it up, and so we don't doubt certain investors just did everything that this control has to do, and it doesn't matter that you're the government institution that you're the last person to grade in a lot of cases, you didn't make a good assessment and you simply rejected the entrepreneur who got the job. That's not good. But how and how this will be solved will the time show.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2125	Here's the deal. I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the applicants here for the report. In 3 hours we will continue with session 2nd agenda Annual report on the work of the competition agency for 2014. Break to three o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2126	The next item is the Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2014. Reporter State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2014 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 135 votes for, 2 abstentions. I therefore find that most votes have concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on the Economy. Here's a colleague and a colleague. It's time to start. Exactly three hours, we are therefore starting with the following point, which is - Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2014 The Reporter is the Agency for the Protection of Competition based on Article 34. The law on the protection of competition. You've received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received reports from the board at the session. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yes, go ahead. President of the Competition Protection Council Mr Mladen Cerovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, you will see the Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of the Competition for 2014. Unfortunately, although this report was delivered to the Croatian Parliament in June 2015 for objective reasons, it only comes on the agenda now, so it is some sort of time machine. I would therefore, at the beginning of the presentation of the report, set out the main features of the Competition Protection Agency as well as the main features of the Agency's work in 2014. The Croatian Parliament established the Competition Protection Agency back in 1995, bearing in mind that the establishment of the agency Condithio is a qua non for the start of negotiations and finally at the end and EU membership. Therefore, there are agencies and agencies, but the existence of a Competition Protection Agency in each Member State is a condition for membership in the Union. In this respect, the Agency shall be a legal person with public powers who performs independently and independently the tasks laid down by the Competition Protection Act and the regulations adopted under that law. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the Agency's competence has increased significantly after EU accession. A specific agency now implements, in addition to Croatian rules on the protection of competition applied in accordance with the EU acquis under the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the European law of competition. In particular Articles 101 and 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU relating to prohibited agreements and abuse of the ruling position, as well as certain provisions of Regulation 139 on concentration control. With that in mind, I'd like to point out a fact that is often forgotten. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU as an international contract is not some strict, technical legal act. In fact, the EU's treaty as a community of states defines primarily as an economic community. Effective competition is also a cornerstone of both the main condition and the main cohesion element of the internal European market, and the single market is the main guarantee of the economic and political stability of the Union and its member states which now belong to Croatia. The protection of competition throughout the European Union must therefore be subject to the same standards. The application of these unique standards is a task of national competition authorities. In Croatia it is a task, except for the tasks of the Competition Protection Agency. Therefore, AZTN in Croatia plays a general roof market regulator. What does that mean? This means that AZTN is the only market regulator responsible for all activities, all markets and all entrepreneurs. In other words, AZTN protects competition in all practically countless relevant markets. Bearing in mind the very broad definition of entrepreneurs in the right competition, these regulations apply to a very wide range of entities. In particular, according to the rules on the protection of competition, entrepreneurs are considered to be all natural and legal persons engaged in the economic activity in the production or transport of goods or services. In this context, entrepreneurs can be considered not only companies, traders, craftsmen but also associations, sports organisations, institutions, owners of copyright and similar rights, but also state bodies and bodies of units of local (regional) self-government when participating in the transport of goods or services. Therefore, to repeat, the Agency shall apply rules on the protection of competition in a predetermined number of relevant markets and on practically any entity engaged directly or indirectly in economic activity, even if it has carried out that activity on a one-off basis. Unlike the AZTN sector regulators, ex post acts on the behaviour of entrepreneurs. But the rules on the protection of competition apply to all entrepreneurs, including those acting on the so-called so-called competition. regulated markets, i.e. in markets that regulate and monitor sectoral regulators such as HACOM, HANFA, HERA and the Electronic Media Agency. Several main statistics on the Agency's work in 2014. In 2014, the agency solved a total of 639 cases. Here we are merely reminding that the agency ended several cases in the area of state aid in 2014 by applying the "old" State aid Act, which was in effect until 24 April 2014, when the power for state aid was transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The number of cases solved in 2014 compared to the previous year increased by 31% and the final decision was not made in only 33 cases, i.e. 5% of the total number of cases received. It should be pointed out that the agency does not actually have any "unsolved" items again, but all the items received are continuously active. The reason is that the Competition Protection Act prescribes very strict deadlines for performing key procedural actions that the Agency must respect and cannot behave passively. We stress that the increased volume of work in 2014 was realised with a smaller number of employees compared to earlier periods. In 2014 the agency employed an average of 48 employees, which is 6% less than in 2013 when she had 51 employees and 9% less than in 2012. One reason for reducing the number of agency employees is the continuous drain of experts. The reason is that we need to be concerned, and the main reason is a significant reduction in the salaries of agency workers. The number of employees fell further from 48 to 46 at the end of 2015. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the organisation of work is such that 24 experts work directly on the subject but they work in teams. In the light of the fact that competition law is the right to an economic essence and most of the evidence in the process is the result of complex economic and legal analyses on all cases, working teams consisting of at least 1 lawyer and 1 economist. All lawyers must have a legal exam and those who impose administrative criminal measures must have four years of working experience in legal matters after a judicial examination has been passed, which means they must have a qualification for a judge of criminal courts. Unlike most sectoral regulatory agencies, the salaries of workers in the Competition Protection Agency are governed by the Public Service Payments Act, the resulting salaries of AZTN employees are significantly lower than the agencies and sectoral regulators to which this regulation does not apply. The names of jobs and the coefficients of the complexity of AZTN transactions are also governed by the Regulation on job names and the coefficients of the complexity of public service transactions. The planned funds for the State budget for 2014 amounted to 12 million 575 thousand 887 kuna. The execution of the expenditure was 98.7% compared to the plan. The Agency reduced total expenditures by 403 540 kuna and 3.15% compared to execution in 2013 while employee expenditure was reduced by 5.7%, respectively. It is important here to stress that all reports of the State Audit on the Agency's business since its establishment have been practically since its beginning in '97. To this day, we've been unconditionally proud of what we're especially proud of. Although the agency is financed exclusively from the state budget, it directly contributes to its charging through the payment of fines and tariffs charged for certain tasks carried out by the Agency. Thus, in 2014, the agency imposed administrative and penalty measures totalling 5 million and 12 thousand kuna, which makes up the direct revenue of the state budget. This should be added to another 7.6 million kuna of administrative and criminal measures imposed in the procedures which were practically completed during 2014, but the solutions were, therefore, the final decisions for procedural reasons taken at the very beginning of 2015. It is important to say that AZTN in the 2014 Report under the direction of the new Competition Protection Council has started implementing a firm or consistent policy to sanction violations of competition protection rules. What is important is that, by expressing administrative and criminal measures in significant financial amounts, the agencies have achieved significant preventive effects within a very short time period. Therefore, AZTN has concrete knowledge that, following the delivery of these administrative and criminal measures, a large number of entrepreneurs have begun to rapidly analyse the compliance of their acts, in particular agreements with suppliers and customers and to align them with the rules on competition. In 2014, it was the first full year of the new Competition Protection Council to lead me as president. The new council has accelerated the dynamics of decision-making, with 54 sessions held in 2014. In addition, the new council also managed to obtain funds for the purchase of modern IT forensic equipment, which was a prerequisite for conducting unannounced searches with entrepreneurs. It is our assessment that a significant and distinguished qualitative leap in the work of the agency was made in 2014 as well as in the measurable benefit of its activities for consumers, entrepreneurs and the Croatian economy as a whole. Let me explain that assessment. In 2014, the Agency established the existence and sanctioned 3 cartels. It is about forbidden horizontal agreements or agreements between direct competitors that have been knowingly replaced by cooperation and non-competition by such agreements. All of this, of course, to the detriment of consumers and entrepreneurs who are not members of the cartel. These prohibited agreements have been discovered on the market for private physical protection services, on the market for the rental of nautical bonds and on the market for orthodontic services. In the case of the Marine Cartel and the Guard Cartel, the Agency carried out all the prescribed actions in the procedure in 2014 but the final solution was expressed in as I mentioned in 2015 these administrative criminal measures amounted to 7.6 million kuna. In 2014, four prohibited vertical agreements were also established. It is about agreements on minimum selling prices in the supply chain of the supplier-trader. It is the prohibited agreements which producers or suppliers and traders directly restrict the possibility of a price competition to retail prices, thereby directly damaging the interests of consumers. Participants in these agreements were entrepreneurs of a significant market power such as Konzum, Dukat, Kutjevo, KTC and Calsberg, Croatia to whom the agency had just imposed criminal measures of more than 5 million kuna. Knowledge of the existence of these agreements came from the agency collecting data needed for the sectoral research of the Croatian markets that it regularly implements, the Croatian wide-use goods markets. Data are collected from all entrepreneurs operating on that market, so not only those who are punished. In the area of determining the abuse of the ruling position by the agency in proceedings against the Zagreb municipal company Water supply and disposal after a year of unlawfully established monopoly, local markets have reopened for all entrepreneurs in the construction of telemetric consumer reading devices. It is about the areas of the town of Zagreb, the town of Samobor, the town of Stupnik and the municipality of Stupnik. Thus, longer-term damage was prevented than the closure of that market by local self-government-owned entrepreneurs who put themselves in a double role. On the one hand, he played a kind of regulator that determines the conditions of access to the market to his competitors and the conditions for carrying out the activity in which he himself appears as an entrepreneur or as a competitor. I also point out this because it applies to the Institute for the adoption of measures, conditions and deadlines for the re-establishment of competition. In such cases, only an initial proposal of measures to restore competition is taken by the entrepreneur against whom the procedure is being avoided, although the infringement of the Law on the Protection of Competition and Recitals is being found, but effective competition is being established in a very short time and with minimal spending and such limited human and financial resources of the Agency which can focus on new perhaps more significant cases. Therefore, in accordance with its mission and the obligations of preventive action and because of its multiple benefits, the Agency points to the possibility of using this institute whenever possible, therefore they must be met for this and very strict conditions, it is not possible to accept this in any case. And the application of this institute has been particularly pronounced in the past 2015. In the area of control, the Agency has had significantly increased activity in the assessment of concentrations particularly in the field of analysis of the nostration of concentrations with an external element and effect in at least three Member States that are being accepted by the European Commission. Such concentrations were analysed in 2014 more than 360 years. In the area of concentration we would especially highlight the concentrations on the Croatian market, so Agrokor, Mercator and HT optima telecom. These items, in the complexity of structural measures and measures to monitor the business of entrepreneurs after the implementation of the concentration with a view to removing possible negative effects in the retailing sector of general consumption or electronic communications, do not question the two most complex cases in the 18-year practice of the Agency. In these cases, the agency managed to maintain a competitive structure of these markets through a combination of very complex and strict measures and conditions. Positive effects in 2014 have been achieved through the Agency's engagement in the implementation of very demanding sectoral research. Indeed, the direct benefit of these surveys, as I have already mentioned, is to obtain knowledge and evidence on the basis of which AZTN initiates proceedings against concrete entrepreneurs as was the case in earlier cases of the detection of prohibited agreements between suppliers and traders which establish retail, minimum retail prices. In addition to implementing rules on competition protection, the agency is equally important to promote the active promotion of competition rights and policies in order to create and expand competition culture among all stakeholders of entrepreneurs, consumers and the executive authorities and of course the most public. This task shall be carried out primarily by the Agency by fulfilling its legal obligation to give expert opinions on the conformity of the draft draft laws and regulations as well as the applicable laws with rules on the protection of competition. In 2014, the Agency issued 44 such opinions on the laws and proposals of the law and assessing the effects of the regulations on competition. The Authority also analysed and responded in detail in this area in 2014 to more than 100 submissions in which entrepreneurs specifically described possible distortions of competition, for example in public procurement procedures or questioned certain provisions of the regulations. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, the agency has the right to give opinions on the draft European rules. During 2014, we participated in the work to adopt the final text of the damage compensation directive. It is a directive which allows all those who have been damaged by entrepreneurs who have been found to have violated the rules on the protection of competition to claim compensation from a competent commercial court. The agency has just prepared Croatia's position on the provisions and an extremely significant directive and made comments and suggestions and developed a translation of the directive. This is also an opportunity to remind us that Croatia must put this directive into its national legislation by 27 December of this year which will require appropriate amendments to certain regulations or the adoption of new rules to ensure its implementation. AZTN will provide professional assistance to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs in the implementation of the directive into the Croatian legal system. The project has just begun and we believe it will be completed by the specified deadline. The Agency has also actively participated in the process of drawing up a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on interbank rewards for payment transactions and the use of payment cards. It is part of the legislation which reduces interbank fees in the Member States of the Union, equalises and maximises at 0.2% for debits and 0.3% for credit cards, respectively. This is very important if we know that according to a survey of the markets previously conducted by the agency, Croatia has been found to have interbank fees among the highest in the EU. In 2014 there was a particular expression of the part relating to the international cooperation of the Agency in the field of protection of competition under Croatia's obligations as a member of the European Union. The Agency has acquired the right to participate in all the working bodies of the European Network for the Protection of Competition, etc. ICN. ICN is a body whose work is equally involved by the European Commission and national competition authorities of all Member States. The task is to strengthen the consistency and convergence and jurisdiction of Member States in the application of competition protection rules. Thus, as President of the Competition Protection Council, I actively participated in regular meetings of the General Competition Administration of the European Commission and the Director of all bodies, all national competition authorities of the Member States while members of the board and experts of the Agency participated in the work of a large number of specialised working groups, sub-groups and advisory committees of the ICN. Transparency and the public of work were retained as a fundamental principle of the Agency's activity in 2014. All available communication channels have also continued to promote the rights and policies of competition. In 2014 in practice he came to life... the model of the business compliance programme of entrepreneurs with rules on the protection of competition published on our website as an incentive and assistance to all entrepreneurs in the creation of such own programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also continuing to publish all important documents, in particular the annual reports of programmes and programmes, as well as the Agency's work programme for the period 2014-2016, the Agency's strategic plan, the Agency's budget and the like. Also for the full transparency of work, the agency publishes its decisions in the National Journal and on its web pages and seeks to bring them closer to the general public through press releases. In order to further bring the AZTN public to the competition protection agencies and materials on its website, the AZTN newsletter is also distributed to representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The agency has also intensified activities related to the promotion of a programme of penitents which is not yet recognised and accepted in Croatia. However, in this aspect of the agency's activities, things are still going well, and the fact that the agency recently, in this year, has also been addressed by the first penitents. In conclusion, since the end of the reporting period covered by this report, I consider it important to stress that, in accordance with the financial and human resources available, the Agency continues to act actively to remove legal and factual obstacles that restrict or completely prevent entrepreneurs from accessing the market. Since AZTN is fully funded by the state budget, we primarily focus our activities on achieving the key strategic objectives that we have drawn up, in line with the resources available, with the Agency's work programme for 2014-2016. Furthermore, given the fact that the Agency, as a member of the European Competition Authority, is obliged to act in accordance with Regulation 1/2003 on the application of the competition rules contained in Articles 101 and 102. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 139 of 2004 the Agency must coordinate its activities with the needs of the European Commission. Therefore, the scope of AZTN’s business, especially when it comes to monitoring the behaviour of a large number of entrepreneurs in all markets for a small institution such as the agency with 50 people, even if... It's not small for top experts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we hope that the Agency's 2014 work report shows this High House and the Croatian public that the Agency's work on protecting and promoting competition has been significantly improved and that we are doing everything AZTN can in the context of its limited human and financial resources. In other words, we continue to sanction all of the most difficult forms of violations of competition protection regulations by entrepreneurs and especially those that cause direct harm to consumers by using the possibility of unannounced searches. This is primarily about cartels that priced by the European Commission's calculation unwarrantedly raise by 25 to 30% compared to market prices where there is an effective competition. In fact, what we must always bear in mind is the fact that the fundamental purpose is the essence itself, only the heart of the rules on the protection of competition for consumer interests in such a way as to ensure that consumers can choose products and services by price and quality through effective competition between entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2129	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Dear Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask the AZTN representative, so what are the most common sanctions you give, or what is the feedback. When you give the penalty, is it executed or if the punishment for non-execution is not carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2131	The administrative crime that we are talking about, which is practically fines that have that name because of their specificity because they are pronounced by a body that is not a court. And so it is in the European Union everywhere. They're being executed. Therefore, in the decision itself, in the very solution in which the agency determines that the rules on the protection of competition are violated, it is said to prohibit any future such behaviour. So if you do, if there's a new breach, the agency will initiate a new procedure. As regards the payment of administrative criminal measures to the state, they go directly to the state budget, mainly there, there are entrepreneurs who pay the sums. Namely, they have the opportunity to pay them or immediately, as soon as they get a solution, so they can start a administrative dispute. However, if they lose, if they do not immediately pay and lose the administrative dispute, then they will have to pay the administrative penalty measure with tightness, along with tight interest, which makes it very difficult for them, given the length of the proceedings before the High Administrative Court. Although it is the High Administrative Court, we must acknowledge this significantly speeded up the decision-making process. I hope I've answered, but if I have to, I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2132	Thank you. We're going to have a discussion. The first club is SDP, respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2133	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try not to spend two things first because I can see that it's not too much of an interest to discuss. And secondly, do not repeat that information or some of the facts that Mr. Cerovac spoke of and as president on behalf of the agency. This is, in fact, the year 2014 that we are discussing, whose report for 2014 is the first, if I may say so in years, the whole year where the agency worked if I can say a new way of working or with some new competences. So in 2013, we joined the EU, with the agency also receiving a new invitation and some new tasks and powers. Some of us have transferred our laws to the Ministry of Finance, so it is in fact the year 2014 in which the agency works within the same powers, within the same tasks in which it works today. So that's the first year he's working on it. I would like to remind you that we have transferred all the activities related to protecting the competition in support to the Ministry of Finance, but the agency has received some new responsibilities, so Mr Cerovac said in the context of the total so wherever there is market competition in all sectors, not only in the economy, but also in the banking sector, etc. So the agency got new assignments, new powers, new opportunities. At first I must say that, according to our assessment, the agency was doing well, quality, and we will certainly support this report. When we look at the data only in the last few years, because whenever you want to evaluate someone's work you need to compartmente that over the previous and previous years. We see that the agency has indeed made enormous progress for the better. So somewhere in 2010, eleven, twelve cases solved came down somewhere I now have the exact numbers but I'm not going to quote them here, somewhere between 300 and 400. So, a three hundred to go to 680 in 2013 and now to 600, almost 40, 639 but without support from the Ministry of Finance. So, if we compared 2014 to 2013, we would see that in fact the agency solved several items in the segment of clean market competition protection for about thirty percent. Last time we discussed the agency's work, her work for 2013 I asked the question. So we always have data on how many cases have been solved, but not how unsolved it is because it's also some data. However, I see that since then, the agency has been accepting it and today Mr. Cerovac has talked about it, that in fact the agency has in fact no classical pending cases, that it solves them spotlessly within legal, therefore possibilities, or legal constraints, which I think is four months. Therefore, in this sense, the agency can be said to be very up-to-date and what is seen by the number of cases solved. What's particularly important, and we see that the agency is also working, so on the so-called. If I can tell the preventive action, then the aim of the agency is not to just sanction those offenders and to make them work. Therefore, to spot offenders and punish them rather than to see first of all their purpose in the absence of or to have as little distortions of competition as possible and to act preventively. And I really think that's good, because it's our goal, and that's why the agency doesn't, that there are no violations of competition, that it would be sought at all costs and sanctioned and that the agency would only be there for sanctions. What is also important to say is that the agency, therefore, has received new powers in some others, so I mentioned banking but also in all others. And I think that there should be far more areas and agencies alone in its work, so it should come out of that classic market competition, so from the classic sectors and get into this new one. I don't think that might have been enough yet, but there's still room. Because considering that it's very difficult not only in this segment but in any one of them to find a clean breach because it is, there's only where there's some proof to paper where the document is, etc. However, where it is difficult to spot, and there is a certain violation of the competition it is where there is no written agreement or agreement, and it de facto exists in some sort of oral form achieved somewhere at lunch or in a cafe and de facto we see that some sort of agreement works, some sort of arrangement, but of course there is no written anywhere. Anyway, let's take a look, I mentioned the banking sector a little while ago. We have today in the world the historically lowest interest rates. We didn't notice that there was exactly a huge drop in interest rates in Croatia as much as we expected. And today interest, average interest on housing loans is about 5%, and capital is cheap in the world. So, banks can be much cheaper in debt than it was before because I said never lower interest rates were. On the other hand, if even these banks are financed from domestic battery, look again from domestic savings if you go to put 50 000 euros in interest is below 1% when you are in charge. But if you take 50,000 euros of housing credit, the interest is about 5%. So there's a big space for bank profits about 4% and all, so it's like they're making a deal. All their interest rates are here somewhere, similar, all their offers look like eggs. So, it's definitely that there are fixed arrangements, that it's not a clean game, but I'm sure they're not crazy enough to sit down, write it down, make an agreement and publish it, so the agency can sanction them. But yes, in my opinion, the violation of the competition has this way of making too much of a deal without having its form as clearly as it would be recognizable. So, first of all, the agency is there to protect, so the game of competition to ensure the smooth functioning of the market, to prevent it from ensuring an even match on the market, to be some kind of market judge. On the other hand, to protect, so entrepreneurs from entrepreneurs to create the same working conditions. But ultimately, at least what is important to us and what is most interesting to us all should be in the function of protecting citizens to make it more favourable for citizens. And there's no deal why? So the citizens wouldn't pay for that deal, so that their service would be either a favor or a commodity as cheap as possible. Therefore, only in this sense do we want and look at the work of the agency, how much it influences citizens to be all these services and goods that are offered how to say more favourable, accessible and that the market in this sense acts in the function of citizens, not in terms of the negotiation of entrepreneurs. One good thing that the agency must have done in this year or year in which we are considering 2014 is insurance. We see here that the agency has provided its activities if I can thus say the additional liberalisation of the market in insurance houses and the fall simply the price of insurance services, somewhere around 590 million less premiums of insurance which, of course, went directly to benefit, or if I can say so in the pockets of citizens or those who are insured whether they are citizens or companies. Of course, it's as difficult as I said earlier to see certain non-market behaviours or arrangements where they are not written but I don't know there might be an opportunity to see how the agency can therefore have larger instruments to act there because, of course, it's very bad when there's a monopoly of someone's but it's just as bad or worse when there's an oligopol when there's a couple of them agreeing and again at the expense of the citizens. All in all, we can say with absolute certainty that the agency did a good job, that she did a very good job, that she did more work and less people than she did last year. It's also commendable. She did it at an extremely high level of expertise because we see that the number of cases of those who fell if I can say so in the Administrative Court is very, very small and not only that year but also the previous ones. So the agency does it very professionally and qualityly. If we don't praise them too much, it can always be even better, and I hope that in its further work it will continue all this which is good to continue on but also look for room for improvement and that it will all benefit all of us citizens whose interest is ultimately in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2134	Thank you. Next up is the HNS club and distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the 2014 Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition. When you have a report from an agency like this, there's a series of numbers. Of course, although I love numbers and would always refer to them but I would still take this opportunity to refer to the three topics of activity that this agency is doing. First, the activity it does and which it does is a preventive action, but it is an action at the time when the regulations are passed. And that's what an agency means. So, our citizens, when they listen to us, then they see through this time that we are discussing a series of agencies and they are certainly wondering what many of us are wondering, what is the purpose of the existence of an agency like this, what benefits of the existence of the agency do I have as a citizen of Croatia, and what do I get here? And that's why it's important to stress, and I'm going to highlight three topics. The first topic is this preventive action. The preventive action of the Agency is at the stage when the regulations are being prepared. If you are doing well at the stage when the regulations are being prepared regardless of whether it is at local level and I mean state or within the EU, then it is important and important that you act because it is the first prevention you can make to protect the local market. And I therefore warn of a European regulation, and it is about fees for payment transactions using cards. Whether they are debit or credit influences by one such regulation in this report is seen savings that can be in the budgets of all those who use cards, and of course that is a large amount of us. Secondly, the Agency's action is an action in relation to the market for market regulation. And here you see the impact on horizontal agreements, the impact on vertical agreements. The impact on horizontal agreements is very interesting, private and physical protection services, the market for the rental of nautical connections and the provision of orthodontic services. This report, which the Agency has already said in 2014 that immediately at the beginning of 2015, the fines of 7.6 million kuna have been imposed and will be interesting to see in the 2015 Report how much of these penalties are actually charged. Because when you compare the penalties that are and what the agency from the state budget uses for its action, it is somewhere on 12 million kunas, and it is already early 2015. Seven million kuna fined. Equally, what is particularly important to highlight is that everyone is likely to have in their midst, which is the abuse of the ruling position. This abuse of the ruling position is a great example in the City of Zagreb, so water supply and draining d.o.o. who used it. With the agency's actions, it's stopped. And it was also seen at the same time in the possibility of installing waterometers and reading possibilities in the City of Zagreb. Because when you see water supply and disposal at the same time you read it as a service body but it was actually being placed there, it used its ruling position. And the third topic is the subject of these administrative criminal measures. When you see administrative criminal measures, then they're a little rough and sound, but there's just as much to read as they are. When you punish one to actually be there in the whole cluster of those that happen, it doesn't happen again. Equally, what is convenient from this report sees what will be interesting to see when the 2015 report comes and these are these unannounced searches. So we all act in a way that this market is relatively small, that the same hour is known when action is in one piece, but what the director said and this is the topic of forensics that was secured in 2014. There is also a conference that was on the subject in 2015 and will be very interesting to see further ways of these unannounced searches. What the HNS club will support will support this report, but what I want to point out once again is also very important. When you have an agency with its work, it does have a direct impact on our daily life, which can also be read from the savings that are in the home budget, then it would be extremely good for this agency to be presented more publicly. So I would like what is said in the introduction of this report, says the report was designed to show itself to the political and economic and professional public what should really be done and to make an effort further, which is that the Agency's work and all that the Agency has done and we are reading it from the budget of its home budgets that the public knows more, because if the public knew more then we would all have and understanding together and know why such agencies are needed. This is one of the agencies from which its role and importance for every citizen of this country is read precisely. Therefore, the HNS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2136	Thank you. Next to the debate is the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Director, on the basis of this report, there is a clear increase in the work carried out by the Agency as well as your dedicated work on the quality of the work done mainly in cooperation with the European Commission, except for the application of Croatian positive rules and the systematic application of property rights in the EU. Unfortunately, despite the achievements, savings and more rational spending of budgets are better than in previous years the most controversial element of the report itself is the Agency's budget from which it is apparent that budget spending is intended but not entirely rational. The Agency is managed by the Council, which numbers 48 employees deployed in two offices and two sectors while sectors are still divided into 8 departments and 1 section. We are taught that the cost of employees who have largely crossed the state average stems from too many executive, executive staff within the agency itself. We remind you that the cost item of 48 employees amounts to slightly more than 9 million kunas of which 7 million kunas, 7 million and 800 thousand are allocated to gross employees' salaries, which is, at the very least, the average monthly gross salary of 13 588 kuna and that... exceeds the national average. Once again, it is important to stress that the lease for the space itself means 111 887 kuna per month. It can certainly be much smaller and thus significantly less burden the budget of this regulatory agency, which is financed exclusively from the state budget. I would like to stress that the agency points out that it is concerned about the rational spending of travel orders that are necessary for cooperation within the EU's same bodies, while failing to see the indifference of these particularly large items. We believe that it is positive that it is of great importance to attach to education that employees of such members of the council, and on 127 pages of the report, the Agency's financial capabilities gives a special value to continuous additional education and professional training of its workers. It is necessary to mention the unique and mandatory form of internal training of Intereduc through which members of the Competition Protection Council and professional staff of the Agency understand each other's knowledge of the latest regulations, trends, procedures and concrete decisions in the field of competition protection. During 2014 over 9 months, 9 lectures were processed and presented through concrete cases led by the European Commission and which had a judicial epilogue. In 2014, representatives of the agency also participated in seminars and conferences in the field of protection of competition in Croatia and abroad. It is particularly highlighted here in OECD seminars, the Regional Competition Centre in Budapest, which traditionally provides financial support to such a system of education of non-OECD participants. Therefore, we would like to point out that this agency, which is dependent on further establishment and maintenance of a quality model of freedom of competition, is, in turn, of the utmost importance of the education of employees in both Croatia and abroad, necessary for quality redistributions of funds from the budget to be allocated to the Agency in a way that audits of the above-seen irregularities and possible redistribution in education and international cooperation. When we talk about that report and the purpose of this agency means protecting competition, above all, in creating benefits for consumers, equal conditions for entrepreneurs to protect themselves from monopolys, which in Croatia does not seem to have much of a monopoly. So far, I'm not saying that the agency didn't have any shifts in 2014 as well, we see that there has been an increase in the number of solutions in the case compared to 2013, 31% is an increase, so there are some positive effects. However, this agency can be much more rational about financial matters and much more operational. Because it's too expensive for this space, obviously I don't know what kind of space it is to stand out this much monthly. I think it will only take savings within those savings to reduce the number of employees in the agency so that the same job with education can be done as it has been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2138	Final word, Mr. Mladen Cerovac, President of the Competition Protection Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2139	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a few words, I won't keep you long, you've had a long day. It's about staff costs. I'll tell you, my salary if you want to know without adding 0.5% to every year's work and I have 40 years worth 14 thousand kuna. These averages that we're talking about, they're highly professional personnel, so we don't have that medium professional equipment except in our... and there are people working with higher school, simply these salaries are reduced and are in line with the pay regulation, i.e. the Public Service Payments Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as space is concerned, we pay the space together with, space in Zagreb 12.5 euros per square metre. That this is Croatia Airlines space. We have tried to find a way for the country to actually take over this space, however, in this process of restructuring Croatia's airlines has not been able to do so so far. The question is, what's it gonna be? That space is perfect for us, it suits us. Although we invite all MPs, it would be good for someone to come to that agency at once to see what that agency looks like on the inside, to see what kind of space it is, that there is no luxury, on the contrary. We do our own furniture, so we have a man at the agency who's fortunately got golden hands and occasionally makes the tables we need. I mean, these 12.5 euros, so with VAT, 10 euros is therefore a lease coming in and a reserve that is unfortunately in Zagreb that is constantly being renewed is almost 5 euros. So neither did the agency during all these years as much as it's been looking for this space moved all over Zagreb up, down, now finally there's one whole floor, there are adequate rooms that we need to hold main and oral debates. We gradually invested about 500 thousand kuna. So some move would be irrational. We are currently in negotiations again with Croatia Airlines on the reduction of the lease, they have already reduced once and we will see what will be of it. So I'm saying, I'm inviting Mr. Bull to come to the agency anyway and see what it looks like. We'll be glad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2140	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And this would end today's session. And tomorrow we will continue with the 3rd item of the agenda of the Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-10-0.u2141	The next item is the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2014. The report shall be submitted to the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Economic Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2014. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 134 votes in favour, 1 abstention. I find that most votes have concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on the Economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Here we have on behalf of the club the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
