ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian initiative for the HRID dialogue, I am looking for a party of 10 minutes in the context of yesterday's disabling to the press to ask the ministers a question before the cabinet's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u221	Of course it doesn't have anything to do with the Parliament, but since it's been common here to talk about everything and everything and it doesn't matter I approve of a break until 9.45. Mrs. Zgrebec, dear colleague Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u222	And the SDP club is looking for a break from the same problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u223	Same problem. Dear representative Pusic on behalf of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u224	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u225	Spika, the esteemed representative on behalf of the Buh, on behalf of the HDZ, the esteemed representative Ivan Schuker and that would be that. Thank you very much. Stop by 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] So, after the break, the first one came to the attention of Honorary Representative Drago Prgomet on behalf of the HRID Club, so here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u227	Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak to you. So, the reason for my request for a break is yesterday's event in front of the government building that made it impossible to access journalists, to prevent access to ministers and to ask questions so far what was the usual democratic practice. Unfortunately, nothing new, so it just keeps going, continues one attempt to avoid the media that has very skillfully tried to do the past government as well. But before I say a few words about it, I'd like to answer my colleague Shuker. This topic has to do with the Parliament because I heard your remarks. Don't tell me, then. I feel called "responsible fellow Schucker." [[Let's just give it a little bit to talk.]] Any topic in Croatia can be a topic in the Croatian Parliament, you know it better than I do because you have been in the Parliament for longer. We are chosen by the will of the citizens and answer to those same citizens. Everything that citizens ask of us I expect us to put it as a problem in the Parliament, in the Government, so I don't see why any of us would want to trouble us here would not be a parliamentary topic. So, I'm not thrilled with a picture where journalists try to jump any official, politician, and, of course, the minister before the government's session, especially when they do it in the sun, in the snow, in the rain, but that's how it is when there are no rules. And the rules determine politics, those who have power. The rules don't determine journalists. They just have to earn their salary, and how if I can't ask the ministers. We can set that up differently. Who makes it impossible for reformist ministers to report to the public what they are doing and answer the questions of journalists? Will police corridors still lead to order in relations between ministers and Croatian journalists yesterday? Will the ministers continue to enter the back entrance of the government and thus avoid the media? Apparently, there is one tunnel from Dubravka road to the government building that has been built during the former Yugoslavia by communists, so whether or not it will go through the so-called. Through a hateful revolution to come back from the ministers? Several times from this pay phone I called on the Croatian Prime Minister, our prime minister, that a man who comes from countries of high democratic standards and democratic standards and habits try to apply in Croatia, in a country in which we must honestly acknowledge these democratic standards have not yet come to life. So I have the right to ask who's setting him up to limit his communication or restrict communication to his members of the government with the media? I truly believe that this is not his idea, so I ask him when his associates who apparently do not inherit democracy as a system of their own values suggest such an unusual way of democratic practice, so I would also ask him how his Dutch colleague, where our prime minister worked or how would his fellow citizen and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau react? Mr. Prime Minister, indeed, you have no reason to hide your members from the media, however, we want good information in the context of our expressed will to support everything that is good for the Croatian government, for Croatian citizens, for this country. This, unfortunately, continues only the tradition of the former governments, which also significantly limited the possibility of citizens getting timely and honest information on the one hand, and on the other hand that journalists do their own work as you know not very grateful work. Will this be a continuation of the pressure on media freedoms that has also been in past amendments to the Penal Code that allowed pressure and repression to be made on journalists who are quoted in their media by the name and last name of the person who gave that quote, or that information? So we have cases
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u228	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u229	Excuse me, just one more sentence. Okay? Thank you. Because Mr. Schooker answered me. ... Well, you've been answering me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u230	Come on, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u231	Let me finish, thank you. So unfortunately, too little has been decided so far by the government. One of those decisions was to introduce police protection to the two vice-presidents of the government. So far, our two vice-presidents are under police protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u232	Now I would really ask you to stop because it wasn't even announced in the announcement of a break. No, you finished your sentence that wasn't announced as a theme of speech on one side. On the other hand, you've crossed in a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u233	But I'm really sorry. It wasn't intentional. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u234	I'm not asking him to throw himself out of the bench either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u235	Thank you very much. I only hope that these situations will not be, that you will allow me to end as I hope our ministers will not be protected from the public or the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u236	Thank you very much. So, I'm asking two things first. One, let's stick to time because this was beyond any limits. And second, please don't throw yourself out of the bench. The next reported on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague before me mentioned that there was a comment here that this wasn't a debate for the Parliament. The public work of the state bodies including the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a topic for the Croatian Parliament, because I will remind you that many here have been polluted during the debate on the new Government, the Parliament is overseeing the Government of the Republic of Croatia since it is also choosing. And if we don't monitor her work then what's the point of this House? The public has a right to know. We see this as limiting public access to information. We had a cordon of cops yesterday at Mark's square outside the government building of the Republic of Croatia. Are we going to have them at the entrance to Mark's square soon? Will we soon have the Law on the ban on gathering in Mark's square as we had it? Is that the next step? Are we going to protect the government from the public? The government needs to be open to the public. One minister said go to the right address and you'll get all the answers. So I wonder what's the right address if it's not the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if it's not the Prime Minister? I have addressed this Prime Minister with one question, and the answer I have received is, I quote, "The government of the Republic of Croatia feels that there is no longer a need for an additional explanation." Is that the answer to the reform transparent government? I don't think so. We listened a lot from our HDZ colleagues while they were in opposition about how this House is disrespected by the government, that it is not respected by the dignity of MPs, elected MPs. I ask you are these answers from the government respecting that dignity? Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you are here in signature, you have referred my question, I appeal to you as the first among the equal that both the representatives and the Croatian public provide access to information that MPs consider important. Please allow the citizens to hear what their government is doing. Did the government not want to answer this question because you would have to say that the first Deputy Prime Minister is not telling the truth? Is that the reason? In the end, this government has not shown itself in legal proposals so far. And now we have an addition to the agenda, we're going to have it today, there's not a single legal proposal except for those proposed by the SDP club. And if they're not doing anything, they don't even want to answer questions, so what's the point of this reform government? Then this isn't the reform government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u238	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, the next one will speak to visiting representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u239	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I think we should repeat some of the principles here that we need to repeat them often because obviously they haven't sat down properly in our society yet. Freedom of expression, freedom of speech, the right to information is one of the fundamental human rights, or fundamental human rights. We cannot talk about a democratic society or a democratic government that in any way restricts those rights. Journalists, it is the media that are among other things ensuring the public work of one government. Politics is a serious and responsible job for serious and responsible people who must be willing to communicate with the public, communicate with citizens, or communicate with the media, who then transmit that information and that communication. It can sometimes be unpleasant and not easy and it can be what politicians are most afraid of, which is that everything can be seen and it can be difficult to drive with a slalom in a way that can be clouded in the long term, lie, invent, speak, deny, promise, deny, etc. We on behalf of the HNS Club, I'd say we can ask Mr. Vice-President of the Government who called the former government an unnatural government, not once, whether with this move, this government is portrayed as either national or unnatural. Because don't forget that just in the first month of her work, the former government changed the law prohibiting the gathering of citizens in Mark's square. According to Mr. Karamark, the international government, and this is likely to limit the national government to the media, journalists to do their job. On behalf of the HNS Club, we strongly oppose such decisions. We think that maybe or hope that it's just one in a series of hasty and bad decisions over the past month. And that, as many have been withdrawn, what many have been done will also be this and that journalists will be able to do their job, that they will exercise the right to work, which is also one of the fundamental rights in the place where they are responsible for doing their job. They are in Mark's square, in public space and have the right to anyone in that public space, especially in front of institutions that are in that public space to ask for information that they are interested in. I think it's a minimum that a single national government must satisfy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u240	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the HSLS Club, Buz will speak, share the time of the esteemed fellow Spika and the esteemed colleague Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u241	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Every day, some interesting subject and one more. The media has what we have, so we haven't chosen them, but we politicians as citizens and people have chosen, so we have what we choose. I remember more media attention as a teen since I was a top athlete and I know reliably that for almost 40 years now, it hasn't happened that some journalist called me without giving him an answer to the question. But it's also interesting to see a series of new faces, and even those that have appeared for years in politics that at one time, let the season or maybe every 4 years throw themselves at lenses, swallow those microphones, jump out of the pastures, are everywhere and then when we get to a position, when we have to give a concrete answer on behalf of those who represent then there's some little hiding and ignoring journalists or some acting size. You don't need it to anyone, I'm not saying that all journalists are correct, there are questions, there are questions there and provocations but politics is such a thing, it's a public matter and all those who use public funds are mandatory at all times to answer any questions. Each other’s acting, protecting, avoiding answers to the question in itself hides then and a series of questions others will obviously not be able to answer. And in the end, it's about credibility, it's about honesty, it's about correctness, it's about end-to-end and morality. If we are paid here by the means of our citizens and we are, everyone pays us then we are either ready at any moment or we should be prepared to give a clear and unequivocal answer to any of their questions. Any deviation or deviation from it will lead to a certain doubt because no one knows why someone will not give an answer. So, the Retirement Block together as it is so far will not run from the media space and there will be no questions to which there will be no answer and the fact that some may not like it is already another matter. So, gentlemen dear, if we're doing a public matter, then we let the public and they know what we're doing. Here you go, buddy Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u242	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I come from a liberal party and believe me, a liberal party will never allow the freedom of the media to be threatened. However, I think we've gone to some pretentious waters today. Your Honorary colleague, Mr. Prgomet, I have a feeling several times in your debate that you mentioned the Deputy Prime Minister, but there was still no need to say the first Deputy Prime Minister. If we have some personal problems, I think it would be good to handle them in private. I can't get rid of that impression. If we do, we feel that something is bad to start using what's called a press conference, let's start doing it another way. Today we have a agenda that we have again essentially delayed because we are dealing with some topics that we can express our satisfaction through a press conference. A survey came out yesterday, coming from a small place to me proud and dear Bjelovar. I get in touch with people a lot. They say we've been disastrously starting our mandate, we're talking about irrelevant things. On the other hand, yesterday, citizens gave us a score of 2.5 of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and this House has the worst rating most likely in its history. Dear gentlemen, let's start dealing with serious issues. Soon it will come to these benches of budgets, a budget many expect a lot, from which citizens expect to raise standards, from which citizens expect the economy to finally start to function. Let's start dealing with normal subjects. Let's stop raising tensions and introducing what many critics already say to the verbal civil war. Let us become responsible in this high house, become responsible for knowing, to realize that every spoken word, that every point, that any high tone may mean a slap somewhere, perhaps a fist or no god give some other violence. Let us stop abusing this high House for our own political promotion, turn to issues that citizens are interested in, start working on improving this House and improving Parliament's perception in the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u243	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to let your colleagues speak, not to throw us off the bench when someone calls in for a speech. Now, the word will be taken on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. One 8.9 months ago in this House when MPs asked for a break on the topic at hand, it was an extremely high pressure for colleagues on the other, and then the President of the Parliament made a decision to introduce so-called at 9:00 in the morning. It's a time for public speaking and stuff. And whoever asked for a break had to come at 9:00, ask for a break and talk, so much about democracy and something else. So that's true, and now we can talk whatever we want. So when I told my colleagues Prgomet that this might not be a theme for the Parliament, I didn't want to tell the team that the media had no right to information, but I wanted to say something else. I think it would be better if we asked the Public Relations Service of the Croatian Government for information about what happened yesterday. Whether it was a briefing in the government, whether it was agreed with media editors to call them journalists, I call them colleagues because every day we do a joint job enables decent working conditions not to stand in the rain, to request the presence of any minister if they are interested in a particular topic. If that's the case, then that's the deal. If that is not the case, then why did this happen yesterday should give an answer to the Public Relations Service of the Croatian Government. However, colleagues and colleagues, all Croatian prime ministers, from there in the 1990s Mesic, and across the late Racan, Sanader, Mrs Kosor came to the main entrance of the government and there were journalists waiting for them to ask questions. The only person to break that practice is former Prime Minister Milanovic, who is... with a car to that central part of the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we never asked for a break because of that. It's his decision, his assessment of him and his services, and ultimately it's a matter of him and the media. And why would I have that relationship with the media with the former prime minister? They probably had ways of getting the information. But I repeat, after 22 years of the existence of the Croatian state, for the first time, it happened that the president of the Croatian government did not come to the main entrance, did not get out of the car and enter the government building. For the first time, the president of the Croatian government was imported into that central part. I don't think that's what happened until the late President Tudjman tabled as president of the state until that famous mining, actually the rocketling of the Ban Courts, entered the building that way. And look, none of us have polymized it. It's a matter of media that they evaluate and assess whether it's okay what's going on. It's a matter for the former Prime Minister to assess or assess whether he's acting in accordance with some democratic standards. But I'm saying, it's very interesting that today they want to gather cheap political points. And then when you call a break for something and then you do personal accounts with people who are you, so I can say antipathic, and they're not able to answer you. And that's why it was my reaction from the bench, not because ultimately, I've been waiting seven years for a minister to say so under quotes in front of the government and give answers, and it's the function of all of us as now fellow journalists can wait outside the hall and ask questions. So it's our job, and we just have to act like one. Because that's what we accepted, and that's how we behave. But I'm saying, looking for a break for one and then attacking the first Deputy Prime Minister over some personal antagonism just isn't good. Another thing, protected persons, so let's go see who from the last government kept protection and how much? Well, probably one of us here, except for a couple of colleagues who deal with this job, knows far better who, how and when to get protection so people don't get embarrassed. Well, that's basic civilization law. If the services have a certain knowledge that... It just needs to be protected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just say I was the first Deputy Prime Minister and I never asked for any protection. So I'm just telling you, but look here using a pay phone to deal with someone who's your political opponent because of that I said it's simply not a topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u245	Thank you very much. I hope we're done with this subject now. By the way, when we talk about information, we must not forget that unfortunately the last government has not answered 100 questions from the MPs of this House. I hope the future government won't do it. ... I'm asking you first, don't throw it out of the bench, and second, don't break the Rules of Procedure, all right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I hope so, and I'm sure this government won't do it. But let's go to the day-to-day job after all. However, let us continue to do the day-to-day work, which is the point - Proposal for a Directive on the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2016; the proposal for an act is the basis of Article 172 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law under Article 214 shall apply to the adoption of the plan. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health, Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Environment and Nature. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Dr. Miro Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3510	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to present to you a plan for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU acquis for 2016. In accordance with the current dynamics of the process of harmonising legislation with the acquis, the EU for the third year in a row under the conditions of full EU membership, a Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been developed to take over and implement the EU acquis for this year, which forms an integral part of the legislative harmonisation plan. This plan presents complete and timely information to you parliamentary representatives on all legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during this year, resulting from full membership in the EU and our obligation to continue to take over the EU acquis into national legislation. During the pre-accession period, Croatia made significant efforts to take over the EU acquis in which the Croatian Parliament had clear merits and an irreplaceable role. The role is also evident from the fact that from the beginning of the accession process to EU accession, the Croatian Parliament has passed 718 laws in line with the acquis. Today, under EU membership conditions, Croatia is changing its legislation in parallel with other EU Member States. But also as an equal partner at the table with other Member States, Croatia actively participates in preparing and making EU legislation itself through its representatives. It is important to highlight the key role of the Croatian Parliament in this process, which is reflected through three forms of action. First of all, this role of the Croatian Parliament is manifested through its right to carry out, directly with the national parliaments of other Member States, the procedure of verifying compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in EU legislative proposals. This means that the Parliament has been involved from the very beginning in the EU regulation and decision-making process, whose drafts are directly submitted to the Parliament. The Croatian Parliament has the right to verify the EU act proposals in order to determine whether, in areas where both the Union and the Member States share competence, it is really necessary to adopt an act at European level or whether those objectives can be better achieved only through national legislative measures. That's the principle of subsidiarity. In addition to this direct participation, the Croatian Parliament has its influence on the development of EU-level legislation through indirect supervision of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the EU institutions. Mostly in the EU Council, by considering the position of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents in order to achieve and protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia as best as possible. Finally, the role of the Croatian Parliament is reflected in the adoption of national laws to take over and ensure the implementation of the new acquis adopted by the EU. Legal gain is a living organism that is constantly changing and developing. Therefore, this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted the Government's programme for the acquisition and implementation of the European Union's acquis for this year. It is a one-year programme document which represents an effective instrument for planning and monitoring the takeover of the legal property of the European Union. A similar transposing programme for the transfer of new legal property, which carries out regular annual coordination with the new acquis, also has other Member States of the European Union. This year's legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis of the European Union contains a total of 75 laws, which take over the new acquis of the European Union where Croatia is changing its legislation by actively monitoring the development of legal property by the competent authorities of the state administration. And this year, this legislative plan has been oriented to neighborhoods. Thus, in the first quarter, the Government plans to refer Parliament 29, in the second 28, in the third 12th and fourth 6 legislative proposals that are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. The legislative harmonisation plan is an effective instrument which also has a preventive effect in relation to the procedures that the European Commission can take against Croatia for breach of European Union law. In this respect, it is necessary to highlight the importance of the timely takeover of the legal property of the European Union because in the event that no legal gain is taken over in national law against the Republic of Croatia before the Court of Justice of the European Union can be brought into action for breach of the law of the European Union. And the final outcome of the proceedings before the Court may lead to the determination of fines for infringement of the law of the European Union. I note that in the three-year period of membership in the European Union in the internal market, Croatia has so far the best results in the taking over of legal gains compared to other Member States, as the European Commission has also pointed out in the Single Market Scoreboard. These good results are certainly part of the legacy of a successful legislative harmonisation process during the pre-accession period, but they are an indicator of Croatia's continued commitment to full application and implementation of European regulations and standards. Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the new acquis of the European Union in the current year, I assess how the adoption of this document confirms the effective functioning of Croatia in the conditions of full membership in the European Union as well as the promotion of national interests through participation in the creation of common policies of the European Union. It is also important to note that the continued harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union ensures timely and correct application of the adopted legislation, which has a major impact on the everyday life of Croatian citizens as a whole. Given the key and irreplaceable role of the Croatian Parliament in the debate and adoption of legislative proposals, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for the current year 2016. Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, gentlemen and ladies representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3511	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the European Affairs Committee, Honorary Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3512	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs and MPs. At the second session held on 18 February 2016, the Croatian Parliament's European Affairs Committee discussed the proposal for a plan to align the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2016 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of an act of 11 February 2016. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2016 as a home working body. In order to ensure proper implementation of the acquis in the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for a harmonisation plan for 2016 provides for the adoption of 75 laws by quarter, depending on the deadlines for taking over the legal property of the European Union. It is pointed out that the planning of harmonisation of legislation through the adoption of a harmonisation plan contributes to timely and proper implementation of European Union law, which confirms that all the objections of the European Commission addressed to Croatia are resolved at a pre-trial stage. As regards the implementation of last year's harmonisation plan in the debate, it was indicated that 41 laws were passed in 2015, mainly due to the transposition of part of the legislative measures into the 2016 plan. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the proper implementation of European Union law follows the appropriate protection of national interests in certain legislative proposals already in the process of their adoption into the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. Also in relation to the infringement of the rights in the Court of Justice of the European Union, the implementation of the monitoring of all procedures and the proper intervention of the Republic of Croatia in the same procedures has been highlighted. After the debate was held, the Committee on European Affairs unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law-Making Plan of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3513	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to take a word from any other committee? No, I don't. I guess not, so I'm opening a debate. And the first call came from the SDP club. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3514	... with the EU acquis. [[Specially enabled.]] It is an important document and I also thank the Minister for coming here to present the document, and it is important because it shows the dynamics of taking over the legal gains in the Croatian legal order. It can be considered a reform document because it contains the reforms and practical solutions we agreed on, which we negotiated with the other 27 EU members with expert assistance and assistance from the European Commission. The parliament is involved in all these processes, the minister explained in the opening presentation. So, whenever the documents come to us from Brussels, whenever we adopt and confirm the negotiating positions of our government, our negotiators in Brussels, whenever we approve and adopt, we confirm this alignment plan with the acquis that is ahead of us. But this is the only document that announces the reforms we have received from the new Croatian government and those reforms that we are obliged to implement and that we have already agreed with in the European context. So, those reforms and practical solutions that we are required to apply because of our EU membership. So these are not the reforms we expected, reforms that are the fruit of the new government's policy. We have not yet received such a document from the new government on the measure of reform and even less on the dynamics of the adoption of such reform laws. So where are the reform laws? I see that... They shall include in the agenda the laws proposed by the opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's the vision of reform? Where are the ministers who are the bearers of such reforms? From this morning's debate, it can be concluded that they were caught in a game of hiding from journalists. So, I wonder if the new government even has a plan, a national reform plan? It doesn't seem to be. They say the best reform is to propose in the first six months of the term of office. The assembly has been in session for almost two months, and no reform law has come to the table. The plan provides for one-year measures related to the continued takeover of the acquis. We will take over the directives in the way we ourselves think it is best and in the form in which we think it is best to ensure the aim and purpose of the directive itself. We will take decisions and regulations in such a way as to ensure the conditions for their implementation, because from the day we became a member of the EU they are directly applicable in the Republic of Croatia. So far, we have taken over the legal gain quite effectively, and I commend first and foremost the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which is the main coordinator of this business, which at the daily level hits dynamics and all resolution ministries are simply trying to bring about that, in line with the draft plan, it and it realizes and raises awareness of the need for harmonisation with the European acquis. So this job is commendable and needs to be done in the same way as it has been done so far. The control of the implementation of the plan is always in the hands of the government and the government has constantly had on its agenda one point relating to the verification of the dynamics, the realization of the dynamics of this plan, and I think it should remain that way. Because if we do not already have a National Reform Plan, we are going at least effectively to implement this European Reform Plan. And the acquis is just a reflection of the legal order and the value of the legal order of the European states. In principle, it is based on the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law. I hope once our government has a National Reform Plan, that it will respect these principles, that it will not stand down and that Croatia will not be considered in Brussels as a country that adopts laws in breach of these principles, as we have recently seen that the two countries on the Baltic-Adriatic transversal are subject to such discussions in Brussels. Therefore, particularly in the context of freedom of the public media, especially in the context of ensuring an independent and efficient functioning of state services such as the National Bank, courts or intelligence services. My colleagues and colleagues around this document always in the Croatian Parliament, at least between pro-European-oriented parties, had a consensus either when it was adopted at the time of the negotiations, when it was called slightly differently, or after that in terms of membership. I hope we have that consensus now. The SDP club will support this document and monitor its implementation because we believe it is in the interest of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3515	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3516	Thank you, Mr. President. Klisovic, you are saying that this Plan of Activity is the obligation of the Croatian government to bring part of Croatian legislation into line with the acquis, that it is no reform package, that the government has not announced any reform and that practically we in the Croatian Parliament are the only proposals for legislation on the reform threshold, you say, proposed by the SDP. I believe you agree with me that the proposals we received today as an addition to the agenda, not only are they not reform laws. For me it is a political approach, that the government of the former government who has had four years of time to propose to the Croatian Assembly, for example, the Law on Parenting Assistance, to propose this today after the government announced its law to resolve parental support for me is exactly the kind of approach that I mentioned to you. On the other hand, the law amending the law on criminal proceedings proposed by the SDP, or by the former justice minister, which concerns bail on detention is now being proposed. And for 4 years, being a minister of justice and such a proposal of the law do not deliver to the Croatian Parliament I cannot interpret otherwise. Therefore, when you are already talking about this reform package of laws that we should put into the agenda today, you should have at least in mind and the fact that you have had time for this package for 4 years and have not proposed it, but now that you are in opposition, you are proposing something that you did not have the strength to propose and to provide funds in the state budget, which is very important while you were ruling in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3517	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3518	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, here I see a few inaccuracies you've brought out. First of all, it is not an obligation for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring Croatian national legislation into line with the European acquis, but rather for the Republic of Croatia, so all of us, and we have explained that the Parliament is very active in such a process. I come to my workplace every day and read every day the papers that are delivered to me, including the agenda. I have to admit that I haven't seen any reform law that came from the government, not to say any law that came from the government that would be discussed here. These laws that have been proposed have come from the SDP club and we can also consider them reformable. We also announced them in our election campaign. It concerns population policies and must certainly be considered before the budget is adopted because they have a certain financial weight. Therefore, it does not seem that we have proposed anything as well as that the government has proposed something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3519	Thank you very much. Next came the replica, distinguished representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3520	Dear President, we are discussing the EU acquis here, we have in Croatia someone told me an effective legal system. What I know in Croatia are all courts packed with cases, there is no law that does not have at least one contradiction. I think there's 1, 2 million... The law a few years ago is that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, all fundamental human rights are at risk in Croatia, which proves that we have not come out of communism. We primarily have a media monopoly. Second of all, someone's imposing on us ideologies all the time. We've got corruption like before '90. years, kleptocracy at all levels. Third, how can we talk about the gain of human rights, etc. European acquisitions of rights, the legal constitution when we still have the Act on the Protection of the characters and acts of Marshal Tito and when they sit in the Administrative Court of People who have condemned people and other courts up to 14 years in prison for reading the newspaper or for verbal delinquent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3521	The honourable representative Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3522	There is no need in terms and content to respond to this replica because some people would still have to wake up and realize that we are in the 21st century and that we live in one new democratic standard and that we are all part of that standard. Croatia has never been internationally accused of these things we have heard at the moment, and at the very least in Brussels. What I said in the debate, I hope that these trends that begin in Croatia will not be translated into certain laws after the elections and that we will not come to the Brussels agenda to talk about the violation of the rule of law and the rule of law in the work of the new Croatian administration. That's what I was talking about, and these old historical topics, I think it's finally time for them to get there and delay where they belong, so in history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3523	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3524	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I am very pleased that today this topic is on the agenda and that we are discussing a proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2016. And that it is actually one of the first initiatives of the new government that concerns EU issues. This is the third time we have discussed this since Croatia's accession to the EU but also 14 times in general. So, for 14 years, this process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the European acquis has been going on and it has really been a long time and a lot has changed. And this very change that happens in my opinion should be more in focus and our thinking and actions as politicians in Croatia because things are no longer the same as they were. If we go back 14 years and even only 3 years when we became a full member of the topic that dominated the EU space, they were completely different from what we have today. At the time when we were preparing to join the EU, it seemed to us to be a coherent place, a place ideal for life, but today it is no longer so, today the EU dominates other topics. From the economic crisis, from the issue of migrants, issues that raise questions and only the functioning and future of the EU. Today, however, what is important to us today is the issue of bringing Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis and I would briefly look back, although I did not want to pollemise and I wanted to talk about something else, but what my colleague Klisovic said. In the last plan we had, 64 laws were to be passed and 41. So be careful when you criticize the government's reform package because you have already failed significantly at that level of harmonisation of Croatian legislation, and 23 laws have not been passed but have been transferred in 2016. Furthermore, as far as the reform package is concerned. The first document on which we will be able to judge whether or not this government has been capacitated for reforms is a draft budget that will come in two weeks. So during this debate, we will be able to see whether the government has a reform package, reform capacity or not. And as for your warning that Croatia was not the subject of the debate in Brussels during your government when it comes to breaking the legislation, it was, I will remind you of the lex Perkovic case when we were very much the subject of the debate and why an ugly shadow was thrown at Croatia's entry into the European Union. So you have experience in breaking European legislation, giving up those laws that we have announced during the entry and committed to them during the negotiations and entering the European Union, and then don't accuse anyone of what might happen because you have something in your history that you have already done yourself. But I will return to the legislative alignment plan. He is ambitious and only in the first quarter has the government announced that he will propose 29 laws to the Croatian Parliament. So time goes by and there's not enough to lose. So I expect that we will really have these 29 laws here in the first quarter because effective application of European Union law is essential for the successful achievement of the objectives of the European Union and Member States are responsible for the exercise of rights in their national legislation. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the adoption and harmonisation of legislation is our duty. It's kind of fulfilling the form. And that form itself is very demanding and complex. The coordination plan is therefore a good and necessary thing because it is an effective harmonisation under the conditions of full membership. And without satisfying the form, we will find it difficult to satisfy the content. One who cannot fulfill the form is often unable to fill the content. But the Republic of Croatia is now a third year member and we must begin to get used to that filling the form is not enough. The full purpose of membership is precisely to promote national interests through action in the creation of common policies of the European Union and thus through active participation in the legislative process. We know that this process is demanding and complex but it is important to take advantage of the opportunities that membership in the European Union has in itself. So we must, as a policy, both the government and the Parliament and, in fact, the entire political structure, define what we want, what our objectives are, and actively act in their realisation. This is the main task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of course the RES. However, the Croatian Parliament, which in the pre-accession period only coordinated Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, now ceases to be a passive acquirer of European Union law and becomes an active participant in the European legislative process. Such a position of the Croatian Parliament enables us to influence the final outcome and content of the law in the early phase of the European legislative process. So maybe the public doesn't know that, but when some legislative initiative comes out of the European Union, it comes from the European Commission. So, at that early stage, things are being cooked and already at that early stage, given the possibility of obtaining information on what the future directive and regulation of Croatia will look like, through their representatives in Brussels, it is necessary to start to influence what European legal acts will look like. In that part, I think we haven't done much, no wonder, nor have other countries learned so early how to act actively within the European Union itself. But I believe that this four-year term is an opportunity but also an obligation for those of us sitting here to try to have a better impact on the appearance and content of European legal acts. So not only do we get involved in the form that we have done so far, so after the European Commission comes out with a proposal and directs it to the European Council and the European Parliament but even the earlier phase, we try to influence these legal acts, but then requires a much more active approach, a permanent communication with the interested public and, above all, with business entities, representatives of the business community in the Republic of Croatia. So the key message I would like to say today is that satisfying the form is necessary but that it can no longer be enough. Today and in the next 4 years Croatia must act actively, proactively on the content of the laws that come to us from the European Union. So, apart from the fact that the European Union contributes to our security and a better foreign policy position, we need to focus more and more on the financial opportunities that the European Union provides and influences at European Union level. And in the end, I would also like to say to the foreign minister that the general assessment is that he has quite well begun his mandate. He had a lot of things that unfortunately remained in the air, Croatia violated its relations with neighbouring countries. I think you've hit your first visit very well, that there's a new spirit and a new climate in relations with neighbouring countries, and I urge you to continue to act in the same spirit. But I also want to point out once again that this European dimension of your ministry is very important that it also directly concerns the lives and living standards of Croatian citizens. And I would also like to ask you, in cooperation with other resolution ministries, that we are really having a greater impact on the quality and content of the laws that we receive from the EU itself. Of course, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support that proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3525	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Ladislav Ilcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3526	Dear Mr Jandrokovic, family policy is not in the EU's authority but only in the Member States' authority, so that is one question, that is, your comment. And in my final address from Mr. Minister, I would like to hear about this fourteenth point of the Law on protection against domestic violence, so how can this be coordinated, as I say there is no EU legislation on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3527	The honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3528	So I'll just be brief because the issue is more addressed to the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Yes, certain topics are part of national legislation and do not concern EU legislation. But that is exactly what counterpart Kovac was talking about in his opening statement. There is a principle of subsidiarity that allows a Member State to define a topic, a commitment by a state, and it is in fact part of national legislation, so that at the stage of the adoption of this legislative act, Member States can act. So there is something in this law that is problematic to talk to the resolution ministry and see that this changes in the process of adopting the law within the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3529	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here are a few wrong, incorrect allegations that my colleague Jandrokovic made, so I would like to refer. When I was talking about reforms and their absence, I was talking about a National Reform Plan that the government didn't make up. I would like one such document as we have received for European reforms to get on national reforms, so the dynamics of implementing and sending to the House of Law on those topics announced by the Patriot coalition in its pre-election campaign. I've never seen that before. I don't think any of the sentences I've heard here have disproved my arguments, and I find criticism unfounded. As for the dynamics of adopting the law from the former government and sending it to Parliament, let's not forget that the Parliament was disbanded in September last year. Therefore, the entire quarter of the government was unable to send to the Parliament the laws either reformal, European or any other, were not able and therefore created this lag. So, objective reasons. However, I would like to remind you that we are already towards the end of the first quarter, and only today have we received a reform plan in terms of European legislation, harmonising with the European acquis. I wonder if the government will be in what it is said, so according to the schedule as it has shown in this plan when there is only one month left to refer to the Parliament of these laws that it has stated. As far as Lex Perkovic is concerned, I would like to say that it was quite clear from the former government's behaviour that he would not allow any Croatian citizen to be extradited to anyone, whether it was a court in Munchen or whether it was a war crimes court committed in the former Yugoslavia in The Hague or any third body without the rights of every Croatian citizen being precisely defended and determined. Therefore, in accordance with the procedure, in accordance with the legal order, there are no hasty decisions concerning Croatian citizens regardless of which judicial or third body is to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3531	Thank you. The honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, three things a colleague of Klisovic referred to. I'll try to answer him. So, first he said that I did something incorrect. I was not incorrect, I expressed my opinion, so I would stay away from the hard words because I believe that speaking to another person and pointing to his failure, and you had it on your own when it comes to national reforms you were not successful. This was confirmed yesterday by a representative of the European Commission, and you will see today in the European Commission's report, that your reforms are not being assessed well enough and that no progress has been made that was expected from Croatia. So much for European reforms, for Croatian reforms, for national reforms. And as far as European legislation is concerned, you have really adopted 41 laws out of 65. And you knew at the beginning of the year or at the end of 2014 that there would be elections in the fourth quarter of 2015, so you misjudged. You should have put those laws before or not put them into play. So, you knew when you were making a plan that the elections would be at the end of 2015 and you knew that the Croatian Parliament would not work during that period. So you misjudged. But well, what's there is, nothing terrible is going to happen. And the third thing you were talking about is the famous lex Perkovic. It's not exactly what you said. Everything has been done to harm the Republic of Croatia. You've caused reactions I don't even want to remember. Croatia, too, came to the headlines of the Western media at the time, but also in the EU institutions as a state that, because of the concealment of the truth about people who were connected to the Ukrainian liquidations, questioned the status and reputation of the Republic of Croatia at the very moment of Croatia's entry into the EU. So, that history remembers. You can change it today, try to show it differently, but lex Perkovic is a great disgrace to the government of Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3533	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3534	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr Jandrokovic, when you spoke about the success of the former Government in the Coordination Plan, I will read to you the publication from the Croatian Government's website of 11/02/2016, it is the Government of Mr Oreshkovic, and it reads: "The Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Miro Kovac, at the meeting of the Government on the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, said in these three years Croatia has the best results compared to the other members, as pointed out by the European Commission.", finished quote. Therefore, when you commended the foreign minister that the mandate had started well, it was the same one of the segments I would have joined in praise. As far as dynamics are concerned, let's analyze it a little bit, that's the word "timeline" in Croatian. The Assembly was disbanded in 9th month 2015. The elections were held in November of 2015. After that, the parliamentary majority was assembled for 9 weeks and the government was assembled for another 4 weeks, and now another 5 weeks, the government is required to propose laws. By the end of the first quarter, we need to pass 29 laws, and in the first quarter, so nearly three and a few months after the elections, the government proposed and the parliament passed 1 law. At that dynamic by the end of this first quarter, it's seven weeks, and by dynamics, it's going to take you seven years. So if you continue at that rate instead of fulfilling your obligations in seven weeks it'll take you seven years. As for the rights of Croatian citizens who have been handed over to other countries, we remember that mandate in 2000-2003 when they were protesting non-delivery, and then after the change of power began in 2004. So we can discuss that too but not to contaminate this debate with historical topics I will refrain from further elaborated. So, just a little faster to propose laws and we don't need 7 years of dynamics instead of 7 weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3535	Thank you. The honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3536	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Bauk, you're skillful in manipulating data and numbers, and I congratulate you on that. However, as far as this assessment of the adoption of the law and the harmonisation of the law with the European acquis is concerned, I was not talking about all the neighborhoods, but I was talking about the last quarter when there was a serious submergence. And we can't argue that. And this grade... What are you nervous about? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3537	I'm asking you to let your colleague speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3538	So, and this grade certainly refers to the period before this fourth quarter because you can't convince us that if you brought 41 instead of 64 that's good. But since you are constantly convincing Croatian citizens that your mandate was also a mandate of success, that you have provided extraordinary results for the Republic of Croatia is also likely to be here when you do not bring 64 but 41 it is then a phenomenal success. That's how you add up, and that's why everyone laughs at you. As for the dynamics of law-making, I warned in my presentation and the foreign minister's representative that the plan is very ambitious and that it would really take a great deal of effort to come to the Croatian Parliament's first quarter with 29 laws. But it's too soon to talk about whether or not something will come true, let's give the government a chance, give it a chance for all those who are competent to show whether or not they can. And in the end, I'm not going back to history either, but I'm glad to have your conscience about Lex Perkovic, I can see that he's hurting you. You'd always want to change that, too, and that was different, but it wasn't. You threw an ugly shadow at Croatia's entry into the EU, and that is unfortunately a fact for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3539	Thank you. The next replica is... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3540	Mr. President, I think my colleague Jandrokovic hurt Article 238. The Rules of Procedure when he first commended me for being skilled and then a little bit more scribbled to manipulate me. So manipulating numbers isn't something that's commendable. So, I refrain from any manipulation of numbers I've only expressed what Mr. Kovac said and the dynamics that you and
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3541	What did my colleague Bauk hurt his Rules of Procedure in?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3542	Well, he can't tell me to skillfully manipulate numbers, that's not very common.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3543	Oh, please! Don't, colleague Bauk. I'm warning you and everyone else not to abuse an institution called "infringement of the Rules of Procedure." And now you've abused her. So, please, let's stop talking about it. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3544	Mr. President, if I've abused anything, I apologize, but Mr. Mlakar also abused yesterday, and you gave him a slight warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3545	And I ask you to sit down and stop abuse of the Rules of Procedure's violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3546	Let me just tell Mr. Jandrokovic that
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3547	I warn you one more time, I take your word! We move on to the next line and this is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3548	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Jandrokovic when you, and the foreign minister, presented the information that Croatia has among all members the most harmonised legislation with the acquis of the EU, then it is not only the merit of the former government but the fact that we, as the youngest member of the EU, were obliged to bring our legislation fully into line with the EU acquis, so the former government actually succeeded already to a large extent harmonised legislation with the EU acquis. It's in this area where there was an earlier replica. In particular, in your speech, you pointed out the role of the Parliament in participating in the adoption of European legislation, which I think is not a minor role of the Croatian Parliament compared to our obligation to comply with the laws already passed at EU level. In this regard, I would point out that the Committee on Environmental Protection was the first to determine in the previous term that the Circular Economy Directive violated the principle of subsidiarity when it comes to powers not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of individual units of local or regional self-government. In this regard, according to our recommendation and the Committee on European Affairs, you remember this well, forwarded it to the President of the Croatian Parliament, to this Prime Minister and to the President of the European Parliament and to the Commission that the Republic of Croatia disagreed. And that's what I have to say and care about. But he did not care for the reason that the position of the Republic of Croatia was then listened but there was a change in the Government or commission, Mr Juncker led by Mr Juncker, and on the trail of what we said in the Croatian Parliament, the Circular Economy Directive has been amended in a way that has arisen from one directive 4 and then more adheres to the position and ingenuity of the Republic of Croatia and each of the Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3549	Thank you. The honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3550	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you've been very good at detecting what's really a key thing. So harmonising legislation and being the most successful in this and passing and adopting laws that are not in line with national interests has been completely missed. So we have to satisfy the form but it doesn't make sense if we don't take care of the content. And what we now have as full members of the European Union and what we did not have before, we can and must influence the content. And this example that you have cited is actually the model by which the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament should function, to discover what, in a single legislative proposal coming from the European Commission, is not in the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and to try to challenge, disable, change it through the institutions of the European Union. This is the task that we must think about, that is the purpose of our membership in the European Union, so on the one hand funds, financial resources, issued financial resources that can really help the overall development of the Republic of Croatia but also affect the legal acts that will benefit our citizens, for the benefit of our business people, for the benefit of Croatia as a country. This is it, and you have set this example well, and I hope that such examples will be more and more and more, and that we will have a successful impact on the content of the legal acts that come to us from the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3551	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative of the Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3552	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2016. It has already been said here and national reforms have also been mentioned. I would not refer to national reforms for a simple reason when the budget comes to this respected House then we will be able to read out of the budget what national reforms these are and in what sense this is going on but a few words should say about this coordination plan. So Croatia has both rights and obligations by its membership in the European Union and all that it has done. Obligations to bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation but it is much stronger. And it is our right to participate in the adoption of all the regulations adopted at European Union level but when, at an early stage, at the stage of the debate, at the stage of the agreement, because then we can influence. And what should be of interest to us in the next period and what needs to be a focus, focus is participation. So it's absolutely clear how the regulations are being prepared, it's known that public debates are going, and when you're taking part here, and when you have the opportunity to act there when the form comes and that's the plan, then you know exactly what to do and how to do. In terms of this, I would like to and advise the Resort Ministry who is doing this job perfectly that when this distinguished House comes before this distinguished House, and that was debate on committees, that we have another column where we would see what these directives are with which individual laws are aligned because then it would be easier to do things, it's not a problem, it's possible to do that, we get it on individual committees, but it's no problem to be a special column, we'll all be able to tell, we'll be able to track what it is. Now a little activity. Indeed, the plan is very ambitious. I'm a technical profession and I handle numbers, so I'd like to repeat those numbers in front of my colleagues and colleagues. So our first quarter ends at 31.3., by 31.3. we have 23 working days when it comes to ministries and when it comes to the 12 working days of the Parliament. In those 12 working days, we will get according to this plan 29 legislative proposals and we will get the budget. So just so you're in your head, we can see how much work and work is ahead of us. If you'll let me, I won't read these 29 laws that will come to our benches but I might focus on three laws. One law is the Law on concessions, very demanding, very complex, a law on which, on several occasions, in this distinguished House was the subject of reports, a law which has already been in public debates on several occasions, and has been withdrawn from these public debates only because of the great complexity of the law which requires our great attention. One law is a law that speaks of public procurement. Remember this week and last week when the reports were then referred each time and talked about the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, it is equally a law that will require great attention, it will require a lot of effort and, of course, it will also speak in the context and the national reforms that await us. And one very interesting law, we have all had opportunities in the election period to listen to and beyond the election that we will abolish the agencies, that we will unite the agencies and now we have the Act on the Mobility Agency and the European Union programmes. So it will be very interesting to see what kind of law it is and what kind of agency it is. The HNS Club will, of course, vote and accept this coordination plan. What you really need to say from this phone booth is that the Foreign Ministry is doing a great job, that it absolutely takes care of harmonisation. But once again, we need to point out other than the obligation that we have to comply with, we have the rights. Let's all use those rights together. Let us all together influence the rules that are being done, which of course concerns other countries, but also us, to take care of our national interests. Because then when any laws are made, it will be easier for us and for us to work and to act. The plan is very ambitious. For this ambitious plan, I absolutely support all ministries because from this plan, it is the government's activity plan, the ministry's activity plan, and the plan of the activities of our parliamentary representatives. I think we should use it anyway, and I'm going to use something that the minister in the opening speech said, and he said that this plan is a living organism, so I think this living organism is going to kind of gently get into some other or third quarter of it somehow. But it would be great if the year 2016 really did end and that this 70, 75 I think the word of the law was actually passed. So let's just keep in mind. The next month, through 12 working days, there is a budget waiting for us, and by all accounts 29 legal proposals. But if it's not 29, let's make it a third, I think it'll be just fine and just fine. And once again, I'm going to point out, let's all use our rights together. When we make use of this right and participate in the establishment of EU legislation, we will feel better, and we will know that Croatia has been actively involved in all laws that then apply indirectly to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3553	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is one of the most respected representatives of Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3554	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Dark Taritash, I welcome your debate. I think it was very constructive and I'm glad to continue to agree in fact when it comes to European topics. You've recognized exactly what's important. There's only one thing I'd like to tell you about is what you've pointed out, so binding our law to directives and regulations. There is one text that is referred to as the interpretation of the legislative measures contained in the Plan for the Harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2016 and all the laws are then linked to the directives and regulations. But I agree with you that one table picture might be even better, but what you said also shows us in fact that we are not monitoring European matter enough, that we still have the impression that the EU is something that is outside of us, and in fact a large part of the law is given to us, a large part of the things that we live today that Croatian citizens actually live there. That doesn't mean like some people want to say it's bad. It would be bad if we couldn't influence it, but we can only influence it yet. And the more we do that, the more I think society is going to be more quality, faster, more efficient, more focused, and I'm glad that here and on these issues we keep talking and thinking in a similar way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3555	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3556	Thank you very much, Reverend Jandrokovic. Absolutely you and I agree on this subject and what is important to repeat once again is really important that Croatia participates actively in the adoption of EU legislation. One of the committees was about directives and that one colony. I took this opportunity to really and in the material that comes to the benches of all parliamentary deputies be so much easier to follow and I think it's more correct for all of us. It's no problem in the ministry because it's the way it's stacking up the material.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3557	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3558	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, I support you for calling for a common ground in order to comply with the rules with the European Community, which is very important for us to continue together and for what is good. One very important word you said, that we must all protect national interests together in these regulations and that we must all participate, and also our Europarliamentaries who should be involved, perhaps even more in the implementation of these, means legal changes and coordination. However, there is a personal question here when you mentioned national interests as to how many times the road to pre-accession agreements with the EU when Croatia entered and what was signed and how much Croatia was then protecting means its national interests, which is an obvious example of ZERP, an eco-fishing belt, economically, that is. Since then, it has been Croatia's right under international law. Unfortunately, however, they gave up their rights, so now foreign fishermen are hunting our fish in the Adriatic that they are selling, packing, just canning and selling it to us during the tourist season. So it is very important and it is supported in this direction to protect national interests and to repair the damages that have been done against the interests of the Republic of Croatia and against, meaning the material goods of the Republic of Croatia used by foreign companies, which is the right of the Croatian people and that is our property. And we need to be more careful about that in the future and I support you there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3559	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3560	It's nice. I don't think it's ever too late. This work here, whether it is work in the Croatian Government or in the Croatian Parliament, should ultimately be looked at and looked at by the interests of our citizens. Every law has an impact on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, each law has a consequence on that. And it is our duty and our task whether we are working in the executive or legislative power to do so. And where is the right opportunity rather than in the Croatian Parliament, where is the right opportunity than through the laws. We, when we first did the harmonisations formal, so after Croatia enters the EU, then you get a directive and you feel that your hands are tied no matter what you read in this directive, you always feel like you have to do it but to do it differently. Now's the chance, now's the chance, and now we don't have an excuse. Then we could have had an excuse, we couldn't or we did. Now we don't have excuses anymore. Every law that we pass, and beyond that, we conclude that in a certain way, it's in damage or that it could have been a different excuse for it. And that is why this is a good opportunity to say once again not to use our obligation but to our rights because and when we use our rights well, then we will have laws and we will have something to say that we have both acted and actively participated in the adoption of EU legislation that has consequences on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3561	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to the next club of MPs, and that's that HSLS and BUZ and Gorane Rusak. He will speak to the distinguished representative Dario Hrebak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3562	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. First, it should be pointed out that it is extremely positive that the opposition is also the opposition and the ruling have therefore praised this proposal in some way although we must say that it is indeed ministers and ambitious, I congratulate you on that, but I also hope that we will be responsible this year and we will try to raise a little average regarding the coordination alone. As we know in 2015, it wasn't exactly a success. However, we must show the picture that we are a responsible and correct member state and it is okay to have ambitious plans, but plans should be implemented. What is most important to say is that, in essence, compliance with the acquis does not only involve technical harmonisation of legislation, but what we have been saying so far is also very important and monitoring the quality of the implementation of the legislation itself, so-called. track-record so let's see how successful we are in the alignment itself. And it wouldn't be too bad for the next time, so for the next year when we're going to do some sort of analysis where there were essentially deficiencies, where we didn't actually succeed and why we didn't succeed. Plans are always nice, they always sound good, but for the plan it's just as important that it is realised at the end of the year. It has already been pointed out several times that the process of harmonisation of legislation requires a high degree of coordination of the relevant resolutions and, in our opinion, of the other stakeholders in the process, both in the process of drafting legislative solutions and in the process of harmonising with the EU acquis. We have to protect the little man's interest as well. This is one technical procedure, this is one technical plan but yet a whole set of these laws that will come to us during 2016 on the benches of parliamentary representatives I think we should take part in our responsibilities because somehow it seems to me that always in these legislative proposals some of the provisions they eventually have and what we wouldn't want, but also have a negative impact on certain segments of society. And what's more important is that they have some negative impacts on our citizen, that little man, the farmer. This is where I especially highlight agriculture. Here are several laws that are extremely important and that are extremely important for them to comply this year, but I note it would be extremely important for us parliamentary representatives to come to the assembly benches to follow them with special care so that they have as little negative effects on our society as possible. I would therefore once again like to commend the minister for this ambitious proposal. I hope that he will also be optimistic when he will keep us informed of what was done in 2016. It is also extremely important, as I noted at the beginning of my presentation, that a good picture of Croatia come out of here as extremely responsible, correct EU member states. Therefore, the HSLS and Buz will support this plan with independent representative Mrs. Gordan Rusak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3563	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, Mr. Hrebak, in his presentation, you said that the harmonisation of European legislation with Croatian legislation requires coordination and participation and the flow of information in order to respond and protect the interests of domestic people in time, especially agricultural producers. So I would point out that in that part I agree with you. But our euro-parliamentaries, especially the distinguished representative Marijana Petir, have repeatedly pointed out that there has been no coordination between the national authorities of the relevant ministry since it, as a member of the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture, could not have reached the position of the Republic of Croatia, the RES on important directives and EU projects when it comes to agricultural producers and small family farms. I would like to remind you of the problem of embargoes for Russia and agricultural products when we were late to report to the Republic of Croatia and our family farms and only in the second tranche realised this possibility. So here I call on this practice to change and to use these instruments that we have. It is mentioned that the principle of subsidiarity is that we participate at the beginning of law-making, and we can only participate in quality if we have all the information in time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3565	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Dario Hrebak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3566	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Of course, I pointed out agriculture because somehow there is both the impression and perception in the public that all the negative consequences of certain laws occur on agriculture. Of course, we are too late because basically we need to agree on the content in Brussels, and here our Europarliamentaries are extremely important so that we can react exactly where decisions are made on their own. We are unfortunately condemned practically only to technical harmonisation of the law and very little room remains. But the only part where I would disagree with you right now is that I don't think there's any need to go back into the past and talk about what wasn't right. It is important to say, however, that it is also important to say that this is a new assembly of parliaments and that we have a great responsibility and that we will soon have a whole set of these laws on the table, on the assembly benches and that we should react. So there's no need to go back to the past and watch what's not right, let's turn to the future. We will have the opportunity to prove ourselves to the Croatian citizens who chose us in this House of Commons and to prove that we make as few mistakes as possible in the next legislative proposals that will come and will be in line with the laws of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3567	Thank you very much. And now we move on to individual ones and it will be the first respected representative of Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3568	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Foreign Minister and European Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. I am convinced that I am pleased with the majority of Croatian citizens with the experience of Croatia's membership in the European Union. In fact, the fact that we are at a table where we decide on political and existential issues for all of us, not only us but also Europe and the world speak for themselves enough. I would also like to give recognition to the new Minister Kovac in his previous moves and achievements, particularly by the fact that he chose Bosnia and Herzegovina as the primary and strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in every respect of the political, geopolitical, economic and fact-finding nature of the Croatians there. I also want to give recognition to Croatian Europarliamentaries working in Brussels on this occasion regardless of which party or ideological assembly they come from. And I consider them the best Croatian team, I would say even better than a trophy handball. So this team operating in Brussels should actually be an example to all of us how we should treat strategic Croatian national interests. And I also don't want to miss the chance to thank them for making their work and... A resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's February 2014 progress, which for the first time by an international association touched the key issues of Bosnia and Herzegovina's functioning and stability, where they clearly said they condemn all separatist and centralist tendencies and recommend legitimate representation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People and federalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say these are the things that are actually the achievements of Croatia's membership in the European Union. Now let's get a little closer to this subject we're discussing today. So I would like to give recognition to all Croatian governments who have met the standards through a long-term, painful negotiation process because through meeting these standards and meeting the conditions for Croatia's membership to the European Union, Croatia has certainly become a better country. Today, we are discussing the fulfillment, i.e. the compliance of Croatia's legislation with EU legislation. And here are a few predecessors who have found that this report also states that around 20 of these laws are not fulfilled. And I believe, of course, that the Croatian Parliament should fulfill its role in harmonising Croatian legislation with EU legislation. For me, however, the bigger problem is that the previous government did not withdraw all the funds available to it, so according to this report, it seems to me that Croatia is somewhere around 24 places out of 28 countries in the European Union. I mean, that's also the primary question for me that the future government needs to insist on. I would now like to say a few words about the European Union itself. In fact, in the context of everything that's been going on lately, I would say most of the year in the European Union. By my judgment, the European Union is the best idea in the world's political practice that has emerged. So it's the best idea of cooperation and building peace in the world and quite different from all the examples so far in history. The United States, we know, were created by the victory of the North in the Civil War. The Soviet Union as an association of states with a bloody revolution. So here, the European idea of the European Union has led to the idea that due to examples from history, bad examples of wars, etc., an association is being created that will benefit all citizens of Europe but is also desirable for the paradigm for events in the world. However, and therefore, of course, the European Union has been a magnet for many years for all countries of Europe and its expansion has actually been welcomed by everyone. However, the idea came in crisis, in my opinion as a political representative of Croats coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina, for us at an unfavourable moment. I'll tell you now that one short anecdote. About six years ago, as a political leader, I was in Bundestag and with five other leaders of the main political parties from Bosnia and Herzegovina where they were representatives of all clubs in Bundestag. And the last question at the end of the meeting that was asked us all where you see Bosnia and Herzegovina 2020. I said about it but of course it was a joke then, I see it in the European Union if the European Union does not fall apart and if Bosnia and Herzegovina survives. Unfortunately, this six-year-old joke is slowly taking over the outlines. So this idea of the European Union today is threatened for many reasons. I think that the credibility and attractiveness of the European Union can only be preserved in a way that will be able to solve its internal problems. In the last year we have seen from the Greek financial crisis, from dealing with the crisis with migrants, through the handling of Brexit, etc., etc., that this idea and this European Union project have been compromised. And I'm going to tell you now a fact, so how does the EU treat this migrant crisis? A pragmatic example of two nights or three nights ago, an EU spokeswoman who, in about one superior position, told countries on the Balkan route that she was less involved in border reductions and more in building a refugee reception centre. So countries on the Balkan route cannot solve problems that cannot be solved by the European Union. And when a few months ago, a few months ago, Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor representing the EU, and... and when the EU promised Turkey some three billion dollars in aid, in return for Turkey to stop a wave of refugees towards Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know what association I heard back then? A very bitter association, an association in the Dubrovnik Republic during Turkey's occupation, part of Europe when the Dubrovnik Republic paid tribute to Turkey to preserve the borders of the Dubrovnik Republic by Venice and Turkey. I am not against the EU helping countries that are directly threatened by refugees, but there are Jordan and... etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let us remember that a year ago, Turkey's leadership threatened the EU to flood it with refugees unless they meet some of their requirements. That is why I say the EU, and in all this context, Croatia must also examine its place in the EU and its strategic interests in the context of all these events, and I believe that the new Government will take these things into account well. The question is often asked, of course, whether the EU has an alternative and the answer is usually the EU does not have an alternative. That answer looks to me like about one parole. The EU has an alternative only that this alternative is much worse than what we have now than the European Union. This alternative is at least a thousand billion costs for customs, borders, etc. if Shengen falls, then the alternative is the tension between political relations between countries based on minorities, interest zones, etc. etc. And I hope that today's leaders in Europe will practice less selfishness, more visions towards the European Union and will be consistent heirs to Robert Schuman and Conrad Denauer, the people who launched this idea, who launched this project. And certainly Croatia should insist on building the European Union, more of the European Union, yes, less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3569	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Ivan Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3570	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I wanted to respond to several thesis presented by my colleague Ljubic. The first of them is that we're at the table at which he decides. Well, here is the impression that I have received not only since we are members of the EU, but also during the campaign, that the EU is referring to Croatia as most refer to me in the Parliament, i.e. that the influence of Croatia in the EU is equal to the influence of me in this House as one man who makes less than 1% of this Assembly as Croatia makes less than 1% of the European Union. If we remember only a campaign that was not at all, it was one-sided propaganda by all the media in Croatia. There was no public debate except on TV when Roko Šikić and Mrs Vesna Pusic faced each other, if I recall. I've followed all these processes well. There was even a reward that if I'm not mistaken for 500 kn for every article in the media since national enlargement. Who finds an article that discreetly speaks about EU accession, of course, was not and no one has received 500 kn from the fund if I am not mistaken for 40 000 kn for the prize. Furthermore, when it was voted on joining the EU, who was from this House against it. I think we all remember who was in favour and who was against, or who represented all those who did not go to the referendum disappointed by this campaign and the process and all those who voted against in the referendum obviously did not represent them. So I ask you if this is the EU's standard for such a mass of people who have expressed one will in Parliament to represent no one. Is that a European standard or is that not a European standard? Let's also remember, and I followed those processes when the laws were passed in this House as on the conveyor belt. There's no doubt that European institutions are much better than some of our own, especially DUDI, but I think my thesis is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3571	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3572	Well, look, I could agree with you even though I didn't participate in Croatia's political life at the time if it wasn't for the space used to discuss and exchange arguments the project countered when discussing many things concerning the EU accession process. And I could even agree that there was more room for discussion, so that maybe some chapters might negotiate better. However, it is also irrefutable that the EU is certainly the highest standard in the world today for the protection of human rights, for the protection of minority rights, for the protection of social rights, and that Croatia is actually an ecological champion if you want environmental conditions, that Croatia must have become a much better country through these processes. And for me, in this context, the moment itself of EU accession is less important than the process that Croatia went through or had to go through to meet those standards. Today, I, who live in BiH, recognize the fat difference that I make in all these things between my home country and this other country of origin, and it is certainly the way that we should go. And since I've been given the opportunity to report back to you for one more thing. So I appeal to the Croatian government and to the Croatian Parliament, to all institutions of the Republic of Croatia to provide all technical assistance to BiH in the EU accession process. But it may also seem paradoxical that I say that I come from BiH, to take advantage of all my political position as an association of the EU and NATO to condition that BiH makes the necessary constitutional reforms in order to equalise the position of the Croatian people as formed constitutional in BiH because this is a condition of BiH's stability and this is also the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia to have a stable state at 1000km of its borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3573	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3574	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your colleague Ljubic, as you come from this Corps, means from BiH, that state policy should take care of our Croats in BiH. No, it is the constitutional obligation of all governments, and I hope this time that the Croatian government from this constitutional obligation to the Croats in BiH as a constituent people will preserve the unity of that people and the whole of BiH because it is not the goal of the Croatian state. To governments in pre-promises or some pre-election campaigns only your vote and how many mandates you have but should be of primary interest to the survival of the Croatian people in these areas and stable BiH. Croatian politics must take care of these people, such as If the Croatian generals from the HVO are in The Hague, they should be given all legal assistance to defend themselves. And not to be given for one example, like an example. Lex Perkovic, and behind that, the state authorities are standing and defending by all means, to discover the murders of our migrants in the world and our generals are defending themselves and we don't know how they were left to themselves. These are interests to preserve our Croatian people in this area because they defended themselves and only defended themselves with Croatian citizens in Croatia or vice versa. You say national interests in the EU, unfortunately in the accession negotiations itself and in the EU voting campaign itself, and the whole process did not protect the Croatian national interests. I mentioned ZERP, voted in this House under pressure and withdrawn. And these are the key problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3575	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3576	Dear counterpart Bulj, I decided to answer, not because I disagree with you, I deeply agree with the part relating to BiH, and I once pointed out from this speaker that I believe that BiH and the Croatian issue in BiH today is the primary strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Not just the Croats in BiH. For two reasons, I think. The preservation of political subjectivity and the stay of Croats in BiH protects the long-term and territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia. So, Croats in BiH are guaranteed that Croatia will be represented in BiH on an economic basis adequately as it has been so far. It should not be forgotten that Croatia's largest trade surplus comes from BiH, which is registered cumulatively over 10 years to some 5 billion euros. And of course the Croats in BiH are responsible for that. What I also want to point out at this time is that Croatia should use not its constitutional obligations but also the fact that Croatia is a signator of international agreements, Washington and Dayton, which are damaged by the damage of Croats in BiH. So the International Peace Agreement was violated. Croatia is a signator and Croatia cannot watch and remain silent about violating the rights of Croats in BiH on the basis of violated international agreements. Therefore, it is part of what Croatia needs to achieve in the period ahead of us, with the aim of protecting the political sovereignty of the Croats in BiH but... the protection of their strategic state and national interests here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the indictments currently pending in The Hague on the joint criminal enterprise, so-called. Supposedly, where the officials of the Republic of Croatia are also listed at the head of Tudjman and Šuška, I have said it and I will repeat it here, so if this verse were to remain and in the second degree judgment it would be far more dangerous for Croatia than the charges brought against Gotovina and Markac because the charges against Gotovina and Markac to Croatian generals concern the internal relations of the Republic of Croatia, this concerns the relationship of the Republic of Croatia and the alleged aggression towards BiH. I therefore urge Croatia to deal seriously with this issue in a political, legal and financial sense if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3577	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3578	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's very good that we have representatives coming from BiH because they remind us how important geopoliticals are, reminding us that big geopolitical games of great force are still going on. We have been a little lazy about this and since we have become a full member of the EU. Well, then often people think it's some conspiracy theories, but BiH is the best example that very large players play their games. I am glad that you also mentioned in this context the EU and said that it has an alternative today. By a few years ago, it looked like it was going to work, and there are no alternatives, in fact, because of the European nations' awareness that without the EU, we are all becoming weak together. However, the new challenges that have taken place since the exit of the possible UK from the migrant crisis have shown from the economic and financial crisis that it is not necessary for the European Union to retain this form in which it is now shown that it is not necessary for European nations to recognise the European Union as the only solution and to keep it at the cost of and destroying the quality of life that European citizens have. So all options are possible. In this context, however, I just wanted to say what came from several debates during today, Croatia must be very rational and cold-blooded in all these events and pay particular attention to its own interests and its own incomes. Croatia must look for partners within this European Union today, Croatia must, of course, use financial resources and Croatia must influence the adoption of laws but Croatia must use membership in the European Union today to protect the interests of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today our position is stronger than ever before when it comes to protecting the interests of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for this reason I support your debate and I think it is also very useful for representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3579	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3580	I thank my colleague Jandrokovic. As far as the first part is concerned, I don't know if I was clear enough when I said Croatia should build its place in the European Union, but Croatia should also reconsider its national interests in the context of changes that occur both in the European Union and outside the European Union, because at our borders and at the borders of the European Union there is a new geopolitical reconfiguration. What once didn't seem realistic today is quite on the spot so Putin's Russia never even thought about it, Jelicin's Russia to make myself clear, so I didn't think anything beyond my limits. Today, Putin's Russia has a huge impact on the world's processes, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, via Serbia, through Republika Srpska, etc., etc. In fact, the former Turkey did not have any Ottomans to say that ambition, today's Turkish, Erdogan's Turkey, Turkey's economically reinforced, today's Turkey, which is increasingly losing its secular character increasingly affects me to say so in the process in the Balkans, is again Bosnia and Herzegovina's target as they say. Therefore, if the small state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is interested in large global regional players such as Russia, Turkey etc., etc., then it should be particularly important for Croatia with which Bosnia and Herzegovina borders 1000km especially should be important because of the fact that the Croats there are constitutive. And as for the future of the European Union, therefore the leaders and today's European Union, and in the first place, the leaders of the most powerful countries of the European Union should, as I say, eliminate selfishness, practice sufficient vision and leadership, and then crystallise what the European Union will be in the future whether the customs union, whether the European Economic Community or the United States of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3581	Thank you very much. And the last replica of that respected representative, Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3582	Thank you, Mr. President. I would first of all like to thank Mr Ljubic for his commendation for the dedicated work of Croatian diplomacy of Croatian governments in a continuous push for Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path. There is a minister, and I hope that this policy will remain the continuity of foreign policy, and from some of its statements it was given and read. I am deeply convinced that the European Union is the best framework for the further development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It offers Bosnia and Herzegovina values that are crucial to its development, such as tolerance, respect for human and minority rights, a multi-confessional, multi-ethnic society, the rule of law, preventing the abuse of power for personal wealth and all that is essential for the country. And that is why we will continue to support the European path towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, towards the European Union. I also think that this is the best solution for the Croatian people. We see that the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a Republika Srpska through which they try to realise their interests. Bosniaks are the most numerous people within Bosnia and Herzegovina, through numbers trying to realise their interests by using them in the decision-making process. The Croatian people are the smallest, have no entity and eat what can change the status quo we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the help of the European Union and the reforms and values that the Union brings. And that is why I see the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the people who should be most prone to reforms and the most prone to the arrival of the European Union and NATO in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have also expressed concern about the future of the European Union, I agree with you here, but we need to treat this concern as an attempt to increase caution to address new problems and new challenges facing the European Union. The European Union is all of us, 500 million citizens living in that country, these are our governments and our policies, our behavior on a daily basis, it will be what we will be towards it and what we will want from it. If we behave very selfishly in this migrant crisis, we build between ourselves a wire and a fence, if we ignore international rights of migrants, we certainly will not contribute to cohesion within the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3583	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3584	Kolega Klisović, therefore, here I am, as you yourself have acknowledged the tone of my presentation, etc., is going after us to try to build awareness here in Croatian politics, no matter who the government is, who the opposition to the strategic importance of Bosnia and Herzegovina for Croatia and about the strategic importance of preserving political... Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You yourself said, because of the unfair division of Bosnia and Herzegovina itself in Dayton into the entity Republika Srpska 49% of the territory from where it was expelled, avoided or evicted over 95% of the Croats and the other entity with an absolute Bosniak majority, that today we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have 3 political paradigms that we had before the start of the former Yugoslavia's collapse and the beginning of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the one hand, the separatist by Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are practiced through increased autonomy or separatism in Republika Srpska. The second is centralist and internalist by political Sarajevo, which is unable to turn the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina into a centralised internalist state, which is practiced in part of the Federation, which was created as a Bosniak-Croatian Federation. Croatians, because of this fact, because of the withdrawal of not only political rights and the right to choose their legitimate representatives, but because of the confiscation of their rights and to have the results of their work, because of the transfer of funds from Croatian companies and regions to the centre of Sarajevo, and then by selective distribution of the right of confiscation... More and more Croats are moving out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our time is not an ally, nor is Croatia's time an ally. Therefore, Croatia needs to engage strongly with its allies. In the EU, directly in relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina that Bosnia and Herzegovina is finally reconstituted in a way that can achieve true equality between the three constituent nations because Bosnia and Herzegovina can only be politically stable in such a way and can only survive in the long term in such a way. Any other epilogue that would lead to a resolution and so on is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia precisely because of these facts that I was talking about. If nothing else for a thousand miles of border.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3585	Thank you very much. And now the final word will be given by the Honorable Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Dr. Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3586	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This debate shows that we lack much more debate on the EU, on the Croatian EU and on foreign policy. And I now want to tell you that I am ready before every General Affairs Council to come to the Committee on European Affairs before each Foreign Affairs Council to come to the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so that I can present the views of the Croatian Government on European affairs and on external affairs, to show the activities of the Croatian Parliament. It's very, very important. I guess I'll make it to 12.30 for lunch with Mr. Dombrovskis, who is the Vice-President of the European Commission, a member, means the Commissioner where we'll talk about both the budget and the reforms on the European Semester because the first important act of this government, whose member I am, will be proud of that, will be the budget. It will be reformable and after a long, long, long years will be a deficit below 3%. There is the first important step of the Croatian government and we will prove our credibility there, and then there goes this whole package of laws, a law that will reform our beautiful and beautiful Croatia. So, Mr. Klisovic, don't worry about us. That will be, there will be a lot of these laws and a lot of those reforms. Croatia will not be on the wallpaper. You know why? Croatia will be much more active on the European and foreign policy plan. What Mr. Representative and friend Bozo Ljubic said, we do it very actively. I also told everyone Mr. Steinmeier in Germany when I was also Mr. Gentilloni in Italy, Bosnia and Herzegovina, there Croatia is in favour, and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the engine of BiH's EU integration, which will strengthen their position in Bosnia and Herzegovina and allow them to be truly equal. So we do it very actively in front of everyone without a complex, but clearly in a way that we can be active. As far as I am concerned, we will be very, very active in the European cooperation plan and strengthen our visibility in the European Union. That is why I propose to Mr. President of the European Affairs Committee, dear representative Jandrokovic, I am ready to come. Call me, let's make a mechanism, I come, I express my views of the Croatian Government on European affairs and foreign affairs. The same goes for Mr. Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Mlakar. We've done a lot with our neighbors. I already mentioned, I was in Italy two days ago and after six years of being Mr. Franco Frattini in Croatia, Mr. Jandroković in Italy, we had another meeting at bilateral visit level after six years between Italy and Croatia which are otherwise as we know very, very friendly countries. We have a very strong development of cooperation, and I've already done this with my colleagues in Hungary with Mr. Sierra, and we're strengthening our cooperation. Mr. Ladislav Ilcic mentioned this fourteenth law. There is one directive, and we will do it a little more nicely, as Mrs Anka said, Mrak Taritas will be a little bit more visible as everything is translated into Croatian legislation, and what comes from the EU, so that it is more visible. There's a directive, I'll send it to you so you can see it. I welcome what Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash said, much more debate, much more conversation, and we need to prove that we are here, that we are indeed an active member of the EU. I also told Mr. Klisovic to the Germans if you will and everyone else we are all responsible for the EU and the big countries and the smaller countries. We Croats are responsible, others are absolutely responsible. But those who are bigger are more responsible than us because they are bigger and we tell them so much about Croatia's role in the EU. We're doing it. Likewise, Mr Ljubic and dear Miro Bulj are not here, as far as the president of BiH is concerned, we will be very, very active and we want to be the most engaged member state in the EU as far as bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina into the EU is concerned. And as I said our proposal was, I said in Mostar when I gave the lecture, that for the Croats in BiH the European path and equality, equality being two sides of the same medal. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to continuing cooperation with the Croatian Parliament and I want us all to be strong and recognizable in the EU together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3587	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister, if you thought you were done, you weren't. We have three replicas. She is the first of those respected MPs, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3588	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you spoke very friendlyly with Mr. Frattini and changed his mind. He was a secretary, I think one of the undersecretary or secretary in Berlusconi's government if it was the same person who said in 2009 that Zadar and Dalmatia were other Italian historical countries. So when you see him, tell me what he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3589	He has raised a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3590	Thank you very much. I wouldn't react, but Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the representative, falls short of the general norms that rule in the Parliament. So, one man who is a testified friend of Croatia, a man who has made a great effort and effort to help Croatia on our way to the EU and the conclusion of the negotiations, who has never questioned Croatian sovereignty and territory, that a representative here accuses him of owning Croatian state territory in such a banal and bizarre way. It is unusual, it is offensive and it really speaks about the level of the representative who thus spoke in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3591	I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have been violated by the fact that he is an offended foreign representative. And that violates the Rules of Procedure, so I'd like to pray that it doesn't seem to be any more. I would now give my word to distinguished representative Josko Klisovic, who also had a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3592	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you here, I have heard that Minister Kovac intends to come before the board whenever we invite him for foreign affairs and European affairs. Namely, I have already asked for a debate with the minister about the priorities of Croatian foreign policy, the priorities of the new government's foreign policy. Unfortunately, the board meeting has not yet come, so I want to inform him this way. As for the engagement of Croatian foreign policy, it has been engaged so far. I want the minister to be engaged, diplomacy and the entire government, but let's not forget that both so far and in the context of BiH that he has told us nicely and confessed to Mr Ljubic and other foreign political issues we were at the defender of Croatian national interests. And as for the question of offending foreign statesmen if you quote their words, it shouldn't be an insult but just a quote of someone's opinion that we don't have to agree with, and I believe that nobody in this assembly agrees that Zadar is an Italian city, so I don't think there was a place for your reaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3593	My colleague Klisovic, you are the new representative, you are not in a position to sexise with the President of the Parliament, so I would like to draw your attention to this. I'm not gonna give you a heads-up right now, but read the Rules of Procedure. I would normally ask MPs to read the Rules of Procedure those who are new because I see that there are different approaches to things that do not correspond to the Rules of Procedure. But now he has requested the word as a replica of distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3594	Thank you very much. Just one thing, Mr. President, I am extremely pleased that you have announced your willingness to come before the General Affairs Council meetings, the Foreign Affairs Council. It wasn't a practice until now. The ministers were coming or the minister was coming after those meetings. So that your decision will certainly be well accepted here in the Croatian Parliament but it will ensure that we really strengthen the influence of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on European Affairs and that we can really talk to the representatives of the Government or the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs about what you will say and what you will represent on behalf of the Republic of Croatia at EU meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u3595	Thank you very much. I think we're all here now and we could all go to the vote. And finally, what we had today, a proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union for 2016. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. 98 votes for, two abstentions and one against. I find that most of the votes have been adopted by the European Union's 2016 acquis on harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis. We will meet again here at the plenary session next week, so March 2nd with the first point to be the report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2014. I wish you a pleasant weekend. And another notice and one request. The announcement to the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission that the 8th session will take place today on Friday 26 February immediately after the vote at the hall "Stepan Radic", so 133 on the 1st floor. And the second request is, please, once again that working-body meetings are held on Mondays and Tuesdays, not Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays and not at all, absolutely not during the plenary session that continues. So please don't let that happen. The session was interrupted at 12.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6835	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Committee on the European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, the Proposal for a Decision on a Decision on discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, the Proposal for a Decision on a Decision to be taken by the Chair of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the chair of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. The above-mentioned proposals were established at the 4th session held on 26 February 2016 by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. So, the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Siniš Varga, and Josko Klisovic is elected as a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6836	Please let us vote on that. I'm actually opening a debate first of course if anyone has anything to do with it. If not, thank you very much. Please let us vote. Who's in? I'm closing the vote. 99 votes for, 1 abstention, no one against. I find that most of the votes were voted as proposed. Next, please make a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6837	We further have a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, Joško Klisović, is hereby dismissed, and Siništa Varga is elected as a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6838	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. The vote is over. 102 votes in favour, 1 abstention. I find that most of the votes were adopted as proposed. Here's your next decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6839	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament Đurđica Pralas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6840	I'm opening a debate. Before I close the debate, I would like to express my gratitude to Mrs. Djurdjici Pralas for her work so far, which she has worked as head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. I had a need to say that. Please vote. I'm closing the vote. 98 votes for, two abstentions and one against. I find that most of the votes have been decided. Please make the next decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6841	We have a proposal for a decision to appoint the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. As head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, he appointed Antonija Rimac Gelo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6842	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. The vote is over. 99 votes in, three abstentions. I find that most of the votes have been decided. I would now like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Justice of the Honorable colleague Arsen Bauk to explain two motions for a decision, one proposal for a decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council of the Council of Representatives, and the second is a proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Attorney's Council of Representatives. Dear Representative Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6843	Thank you. Article 35 The Law on the State Judicial Council has been arranged for two members of the Council to appoint the Croatian Assembly as one of their representatives. By letter of 24 February 2016 The SDP representative club proposed Orsat Milenic, and by letter dated 26 February, the HDZ Representatives Club proposed Davorin Mlakara. The Committee on Justice unanimously voted with 7 votes to establish a proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council from the order of the representatives tabled by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6844	Wait, we have to vote one by one. First of all, please vote on this decision. First, we have a debate? We don't have an argument, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Please vote who's in favour? I'm closing the vote. 103 votes in favour, 1 against. I find that most votes accept the motion for a decision. Please make the next decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6845	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office is arranged for two members of the Council to appoint a Croatian Assembly from the ranks of their representatives, one of which is one of the order of opposition. By letter dated 24 February the SDP club submitted to Josip Lek and submitted to Drazen Bošnjaković by letter dated 26 February. The Committee on Justice unanimously voted with 7 votes to establish a proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Attorney's Council of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6846	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. The vote is over. 101 votes for, 1 against. I find that most votes have accepted the motion for a decision as proposed. We would then move on to the election, appointments and resolutions, so I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, Mr Franjo Lucic, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6848	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament: Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament; Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament; Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament; Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and members of the Committee of the Prize Vladimir Nazor and the termination of the term of office of president and members of the Committee of the Vladimir Nazor Award. These proposals and Decisions of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament were set at the 5th session held on 11 March 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6849	I'd like to ask you now to vote one by one. So the first proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Franjo Lucić is hereby dismissed and Leon Žulj is elected. Please, I'm opening the debate first. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. Please result, 113 for and 1 abstention. I find that most of the votes were accepted by the proposal. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6850	Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Branko Hrg is hereby dismissed and Davor Vlaović is elected as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6851	Do we have any objections to that? I'm opening a debate. No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. Who's for the Committee's proposal? The vote is over, 113 for one abstention. I find that most votes accept the Committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6852	Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Josip Borić is dismissed and Franjo Lucić is elected as a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6853	I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. Who's for the Committee's proposal? The vote is over. 108 votes for, 2 abstentions. I find that most votes accept the Committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6854	Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee and ending the term of office of president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee. As Chairman of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee, academician Zvonko Kusic is named. For members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee, the following are named: Dr. Nikola Poljak, academician Dubravka Oraić Tolic, Prof. Branko Ivanda, Biserka Rauter Plančić, Almira Osmanović, academician Stanislav Tuksar, Joško Ševo and Ivica Kunčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-26-0.u6855	I'm opening a debate. No, nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the Committee's proposal. The vote is over. 108 votes for, 7 abstentions. I note that most of the votes were accepted by the Proposal for a Decision as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Good morning, everyone! I ask you to take your seats and we continue on our agenda as planned. Therefore, the first point today will be - Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest in 2014 Reports for the Committee on Conflict of Interest pursuant to Article 30. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and by the Committee on Justice. You received their reports at the session. The government also delivered its opinion. Does he want a representative of the applicant? Oh, I'm sorry, only the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina came forward.
