ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u213	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Here you go, colleague Lackovic raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u214	I thank the chairman. So, I'd like to take a break, and I'd like to get to know the public about the work of the Parliament on this tax reform, the law package and the media on how they're monitoring this situation and about yesterday's salmonella case and what's been going on about this discovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u215	So, the Parliament and the salmonella together? Okay. Thank you. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u216	Vice-President of the Parliament, also on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, we are looking for a break regarding the salmonella case, which is now current. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u217	Thank you. Dear Representative Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u218	Mr. Reiner, I'm looking for a break to sue "Monster Marijan Hanžekovic" for insulting me and want my immunity removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u219	Okay. Man, this is Parliament and you can talk about whatever you want. Anyone else for a break? Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is also seeking a break because of insufficient food control and food safety in the trade chains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u221	Thank you. That means we've exhausted everything. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00 p.m. Here, colleagues and colleagues, the break is up. I'm asking you to take your seats. Before we begin with the announced speeches of the clubs, I ask you nicely to keep the integrity of this House, to pay very close attention to what words we use, not to insult each other or anyone else and to do it all primarily for our own sake and for the dignity of this House, but also for the citizens who are watching us now. Since the first voiced the wish of the Labour and Solidarity Party, on behalf of which the distinguished representative Željko Lackovic will speak, I call him for a pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u223	Thank you, Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Today's break I think will reveal one great truth about ourselves. So, we can, we said we'd connect the work of the Parliament, monitor the media and case of salmonella in the food. So, the picture of us citizens is being sent to the media, and we witnessed yesterday watching information shows that there is nothing going on in the Parliament. An image was shown when the assembly was empty. Not a single word has been said about useful proposals and constructive debates, nor on committees, nor has it been respected that legislators are present at the assembly all the time and that they are constructively involved and follow what parliamentary representatives, clubs and individuals have to say. On the contrary, the cheap pulsism of our media house shows an empty assembly. A colleague of the Dragons was pulled from the context by one of the pay figures, and in this way they're doing a bad picture of us, and I'd like a picture of the media. So, in the Republic of Croatia, a month ago, a boy of five died of salmonella-bought eggs in Kaufland. As a Croatian state, we have done nothing even as much as we do when someone smokes in a café and closes it for 30 days. What happened, and it happened not a month after the dog, that we have salmonella in our chicken and that's what the media is talking about! They shut up for a reason because they're advertisers. Well, the bastard here in the Parliament is saying that Lidl and Kaufland are destroying our dairy production. For what? These are German chains, Germany produces 133% of its milk needs, we produce 59% of them and still reward them with one kuna and four limes for those who will not, or less, produce this year. I suggest that all the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia ban Kaufland and Lidl for 30 days, at least be in the same treatment as any cafe for cases of salmonella that often appear in them. Now watch this, what does the media write about it? Nothing! A boy dies for five years, where's that control system? Yesterday's New TV diary was "washing" Lidla! Because they said, "We've packed the goods," the Beer says, "We've controlled it, we've got the proper papers." Oh, come on! You have a variety of certificates, you have internal control of the goods. You knew the goods were broken and you didn't go out with that information. And all the honor and support of Mr. Tolusic, Minister of Agriculture on this information he went out with. And I call upon all the institutions in this country, punish Lidl and Kaufland as they are punished at least for smoking in a cafe. Lock them up for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u224	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, the next word will be taken by the distinguished representative Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u225	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is my colleague Lackovic. Just recently, a boy who consumed eggs infected with salmonella died. And what's going on? Absolutely nothing. The affairs last a few days. The situation calms down and everything goes back to the way it was. In this case, both the importer and the trader respected the procedure. Well, obviously our procedures aren't good. Obviously, they need to be changed. Imagine, by procedure, citizens shouldn't even have been informed. Croatia is a member of the European Union. We have our obligations, but we also have certain rights. Croatia must protect its citizens. The government must launch stronger control mechanisms for meat imports and for domestic producers. I wonder, and all of you, what would happen if a case like this happened in France or Germany? Are we really a less important country, or is it said, a country in a different category? How is it possible that we haven't already sent additional inspections into trade chains and the importer himself, even on a farm even in Poland? We import 6 million chickens a year at the dumped price of 13 kuna per kilogram. All those who grow homemade chicks know that this is simply an impossible price, for these 13 kunas we probably get at least chicken, and most of the various illicit ingredients like antibiotics. It is a shame to import salmonella-infected chicken alongside such capacities in Croatia. If this had happened to meat from Croatia, our home farm would have been closed at least, and a criminal application would have been launched against the owners. Don't we live in a state of absurdity where we conduct daily analyses and tests that aren't cheap, while importers on our shelves obviously can put whatever they want? In anyone where the only profit is important, Minister Tolusic in today's interview urged companies to take care of imported meat. I believe that they will still do so, as they have done so far. I ask that this case, at the very least, be addressed by the Minister of Agriculture here in the Parliament. And this is a situation where not only an assistant minister should resign, but others responsible in the chain. My question is, does the minister himself feel responsible, since it is the health and safety of our citizens? And I think it's much, much more important than the profits of the trade chains and importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u226	Thank you very much. In the name of the Living Wall, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u227	Good afternoon. Thank you, everyone! Well, today on the agenda again one person who insists on poisoning, polluting, harassing our citizens. That person is known to everyone. It is a Mason, self-recognized Mason Marijan Hanžekovic, who acquired his empire over the back of the poorest. And instead of joining his ears, instead of putting his head down, he, through his media, disgusting media "The Morning List" and "Globus", including "Free Dalmatia" so-called "Free Dalmatia". Hanza Media systematically harasses us parliamentary representatives. I'm asking until when? How long will he be muddying all those who disagree with him? Until when will he muddle all those who disagree with his thieving way of billing for a TV subscription, until when? How long will they insult each and every one of us personally and in their paid texts with these mercenaries harass us? And when I stood up to that by me, a morally punishable person who trampled on human dignity. Thank you, Mr. Rainer. [[Intruder Reiner: My colleague Pernar, I asked before the start of this break to choose words and to make these words appropriate to the dignity of this House, so please do so.]] Well, you're protecting Hanžekovic, what else can I tell you, you're defending him, you're making sure that you're just saying nice words. All right. [[/Intruder Reiner: No. I just don't want anyone to be offended here.]] Okay. You've turned yourself in for him, all right. I won't. I'm saying that this person has requested that my immunity be removed and that today, at eleven o'clock, the Mandate-Immunity Commission is meeting to decide on his request to initiate a criminal case against me for a criminal offence. This time I appeal to HDZ representatives, the SDP that are in that body, I don't know if anyone from the Bridge has inside, there's a bridge, please don't let that monster harass me. Please protect me. .../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Pernar, please, I asked you nicely not to use such expressions. I'll tell you very openly, in this House for private lawsuits no one has ever lost their immunity. So, anyway... Mr. Reiner, Mr. Reiner.....the Intruder Reiner: No matter what you think of anyone, but this is not where you use such expressions. [[Invader Reiner: It is not appropriate to use such expressions for anyone]] Thank you, Mr. Reiner, but for the private service of a similar matter, it's Mr. Zeljko Reiner, i.e. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, his immunity was lifted and he was sued. I'm afraid that I wouldn't be the second precedent after him and I pray therefore that you don't work precedents and protect me from that man who controls all the media, almost all the media and who insists on harassing not only our citizens but as we have the opportunity to see us here in the Parliament. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u228	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Josip Križanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u229	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! And according to this subject, in the last month, we have three threats: curly skin, salmonella, and bird flu. And I think the minister reacted with a spot and a good reaction in all three cases. However, I want to make it very clear for this speaker that the import lobby has destroyed Croatian agriculture and livestock, that we import over three billion euros in food of questionable quality. When I say questionable, then I think it's a slave of the deadline and no visible declaration, no date of first freezing and poorer quality. For example, meat is not allowed anywhere in the EU. But smart countries make recommendations. It has not been proven that such meat is healthy, but it has been proven to be poor quality. The problem is if such meat is defrosted and sold under fresh meat. We, Croatia cannot and must not be a cleaner of Europe. What they'd throw in the cafeteria is what we import. Croatian products are well controlled and I guarantee you that. Overstandards, no one forbids us to have overstandards and this meat imported at the borders. We ask for urgent resolution of the Fair Trade Practice Act because the frequency of border controls is too low. It can't be because of a few million kunas, ladies and gentlemen, that's what I've already told you in this House, Parliament's, budgets question people's health and death that happened a month ago. We're asking for the Law on Commercial Practice to be introduced as soon as possible. This implies a law which does not allow prices below the manufacturer’s price. The same grocery at the shopping centre in Austria cannot cost one euro, and in Croatia half the euro. What does that mean? This means that the trade chains of foreign owners supply without any control with food of questionable quality, which is three times subsidized by the exporting country and thus destroy Croatian agriculture. But not just agriculture, but industrial production. They're making an enormous profit. Following Regulation 141/15, we are obliged to address this situation which has been happening lately indiscriminately search these imported foods. Notice, it's about people's lives. Dear friends, there is a minister, and we here have to set up a political will because of the state's interest in production or import. We need to make maximum positive discrimination against domestic production in the way our neighbors do. And it's possible to do with so-called. ‘original sales’. Short supply chains. Who's defending us from our army, our police, our hospitals, or our nursing homes not eating the food they're in? Who forbids us from 80 percent of domestic goods in Austria must be on the shelves of the trade chains. It's an unwritten rule. Look at the size of our trade rules. We need to change people's minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-17-0.u230	Thank you very much.
