ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17931	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have a break after all. Here's your esteemed representative, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP club, I propose a break and request a break in the shortest allowed business life to warn of an inappropriate attitude towards the victims of the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17933	Dear comrade Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17934	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a ten-minute break to warn about the problem of late scholarships for students who are studying for deficiting professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17935	Thank you. Anyone else? The Honorable representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17936	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17937	For the record, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17938	So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club about the telecom corporation monopoly and possible corruption of Croatian institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17939	Thank you. Anyone else? We've got three. If I don't thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. Here's a colleague and a colleague, the break is over, and I'm going to ask the SDP Club to speak on behalf of the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP club has asked for a break from this place to warn of an inappropriate attitude towards the victims of the war. It is a topic that in Croatia these last two days is current, and it will be for a while if the government does not react. As to the reason why I asked for a break, I would therefore like to say something about the unknown perpetrator destroying the Vukovar exhibition, the killing of a city, which was set up in Novi Sad on the 25th anniversary of the city's destruction by the Women's Human Rights Organization in black in collaboration with the activist art troupe of Artclinics. Panois with photographs as part of the exhibition, which opened on November 18th first, were reviled several days ago by offensive and nationalist graphites, and were then broken on Monday. The author of the exhibition photographer Srdjan Veljovic said the destruction did not surprise him. Since I had a certain fear that the exhibition would end like this, there is a fear that my and other children would come into a situation to repeat such a thing, he said, alluding to the destruction of Vukovar. On the contrary, there's a paradox that from the territory that my generation, quote, so soulfully slaughtered, everyone wants to leave. This energy in unsuspecting territories has led to 25 years later people do not want to live in these areas. As we can see, on the other hand, in Serbia, there are people who are aware of the crimes committed, alleged signs, on behalf of their country. Such awareness exists in Croatia. And therefore to all those who send me these days threatening messages to Inbox, signed: For a home ready, and shared on yours and ours, can only be reported, those people in Serbia who organized this exhibition are mine, and those who destroyed this exhibition are yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17942	Thank you very much. In the name of the Living Wall, the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17943	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, I asked for a break to warn of the delay in scholarships for students who are educated in deficits. We listen these days that youth unemployment in Croatia is about 50%. Since there are a number of jobs in Croatia that have practically disappeared, and there is a great need behind them, and we also listen to employers' announcements that due to this state of affairs, therefore lack of proper occupation, foreign workers will be introduced. They're planning 19 grand. The Ministry of Defence and Entrepreneurship tried to alleviate this problem in such a way as to call a tender for students in deficits. To that end, 18 million kunas were granted. The competition is open on 1.9.2016. It was completed 14.10.2016. under rather complicated conditions of application. So the young people signed up. They expected to receive 750 kuna a month or 9,000 kuna a year, but until today they did not receive any response to the competition. Today is 7.12.2016. The first semester is coming to an end. So I repeat once again, the students who applied for the competition not only did they not receive the funds provided in the deadlines but they did not receive a reply to the results of the competition itself. The question is, therefore, what does the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts do, i.e. through the new Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Why, then, does it not allow these young people to go to school as they were told? Why is the state stalling with such simple things as competitions? Therefore, the state does not respect an ordinary procedure that has been put in place in a public call and which ultimately encourages a culture of non-payment, which is also highlighted in this country as one of the key problems in the economy. I hope that this delay will not cause some new strike for students like he was this year at the Ministry of Science, when only at the 6th month, so at the end of the academic year they managed to win their right to scholarship. The students therefore need a scholarship for the reason that they pay those obligations that are important and not to receive a scholarship in the 6th or 7th month of the following year when they may need it for vacation or vacation. We see from this state that in 2016, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts was the worst Ministry of this government, that there is total chaos, that among other things, I remind you that the ministry only used 50% of the budgets that were planned, so one billion kuna funds were foreseen, the rest was completely unused. On the other hand, by joining these two ministries of economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, the new minister and Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic announced some guillotines, she also announced that she would pay her employees by effect, not only her own, but all the civil servants. So right now, there's a possibility that these measures can first apply to their ministry, to check who these people are who are irresponsible, so they treat young people who have some ideals, who still trust this country, who are still thinking about staying here to stay out of the country. Let it determine not the responsibility, or responsibility of those who are guilty and finally fulfil their obligations as means a cultural and regulated rule of law. So much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17944	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the MOST Club, the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17945	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I have been preparing for a long time a review of the situation in the Republic of Croatia because I believe that at every session of the Croatian Parliament we must talk about social aspects that hinder and prevent the development of the Republic of Croatia until this aspect is completely resolved. The economic situation, poverty, hopelessness, emigration in the Republic of Croatia have one common denominator, one trigger that puts the stability and stability of the Republic of Croatia at risk. This factor of uncertainty, hopelessness and injustice resulting from poverty and emigration and thus political instability, respected fellow MPs and advocates is called the legal enslavement of our society. There has been slavery, in my opinion, because of a small part of the judiciary, I say a small part but obviously a very influential part. Namely, the lack of trust in the judiciary stems from the effects that this group has on society and individuals, so it is obvious that the domination of the minority over the large part of the judiciary that works for the benefit of our country and its future. The biggest damage after the creation of Croatia was the code, through unfair and wild conversion and privatisation. However, 25 years since the establishment of the Republic of Croatia and all laws adopted by our judiciary have not responded to these challenges and there is no movement. Economic circles and contacts assure me that no one can and will make serious investments in the Republic of Croatia because they cannot expect real security and predictability. Now, that particular example that led me to this debate. So that's where I express the area of telecommunications, where according to the documented claims made by the participants, the full and illegal rule of the large Telekom company is being realized. The company is argued that our courts in concrete cases find very controversial and absurd views to cover up the behavior that violates the fundamental values of this society. Thus, in the legal conflict of a concessionaire with a large company mentioned, courts completely distort the meaning of the telecommunications law and its rules at the time by declaring those regulations governing the competition in telecommunications totally non-binding to the mentioned large company. Consider, for example, that according to the decisions of domestic courts for a foreign carrier, the rule of right-hand traffic does not apply. Imagine that an independent regulator has found that a large company has been acting against the law, that abuse of monopoly and overcharges its services, and that courts in court proceedings for the return of too much charge and which has been going on for almost 20 years, simply say that this law is not binding on that large company, that large company and that a large company can charge both how and how much it will and all, despite the fact that market freedoms and competition are the basis of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. It is not noteworthy that, in a concrete case, such absurd views of our courts are completely contrary to earlier judgments and views of both the Supreme and the Constitutional Court. Such views of our courts offend common sense, elemental logic and expert opinions of independent sectoral experts, as well as recent decisions and penalties of the 70m-euro commission belonging to a large company precisely because of violations of the right of competition in telecommunications. And it can carry only one message, a message that the Republic of Croatia has become a bit of a prisoner of international stakeholders. The learned knowledge of RS will in a concrete telecommunication example is so strong, concrete and documented that it causes fear of the future. Additional light is given to this corporation by American investigative authorities on the way the international group that belongs to the mentioned large Telekom company in the Republic of Croatia, which seems to enjoy the unreserved favor of our courts or competent institutions, bearing in mind the worrying state of the non-market for electronic communications. According to publicly available documents, it is undeniable that the international group present in the Republic of Croatia in our neighbouring countries has corrupt political parties and individuals with the aim of illegally affecting the competition in those countries. The findings that occur through concrete examples of the conduct of courts in the Republic of Croatia in the cases mentioned by the group say that the described phenomenon of privilege in the courts corresponds perfectly to the established corrupt mode of work of the company in our neighbouring countries. And finally, dear colleagues and colleagues, do I question whether the ends of the impact of this corruption action are known to be mentioned by the international group, and whether such an action may have been exposed to the Republic of Croatia and with what consequences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u17946	Thank you very much. We will now continue with the agenda and the first point will be as announced: - Final proposal of the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.48. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. Contributions to the report are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Maja Markovčić Kostelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is my first address to this High House, so you'll tell me if I don't properly explain certain parts of this important law, but I'm here to answer all the questions. This law therefore introduces provisions of the EU acquis into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, in particular Directive 2014/94 on the establishment of infrastructure for alternative fuels. So, apart from our obligation to join the EU. We are introducing this significant legal act into Croatian legislation for another fundamental reason, which is to ensure for our future traffic with significantly lower emissions, harmful emissions to the environment. This contributes to climate change arrangements and encourage the use of therefore transport vehicles not only in road but also in other modes of transport that have significantly lower emissions of harmful fuels, harmful emissions. What are alternative fuels? As we all know, these are fuels that are low carbon or not carbonic at all, such as natural gas, hydrogen or electricity. And this law creates actually a legislative framework to help use such transport vehicles on the basis of built infrastructure. So this law itself represents a legal framework and concrete measures that we will take in the construction of infrastructure will also be defined by a special sublaw and these are framework policies. This law does not provide, therefore, for the application of this law there is no need to provide for additional resources in the state budget because, as I said, the adoption of the sublaw will provide for financial models for the construction of concrete infrastructure. This ultimately means that within the deadlines provided for in the draft of such framework policies and also in the directive, we will have on Croatian roads, meaning that on the TNT corridor in road and rail transport, as well as in airports and sea ports, there will be adequate charge stations for electricity as well as for the use of gas. In addition, the Croatian government is developing a project that will address maritime transport and will include the development of coastal line passenger transport using alternative fuels. Here's what was in the shortest lines, I believe there's a reason to support or pass this law in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21812	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State you've said all this nicely and I'm actually to be honest with you on this subject I have no idea. But I answered the line just so this would be in the camera. And so that Mr. Vice President doesn't take away my word I'll read the bill's reasoning for the next two minutes that you don't say I'm not sticking to the subject, and that's what my colleague Bojan Glavasevic is going to do after me for today. The growth of transport systems based on the use of renewable space and energy sources has led to a shift in environmental pollution and dependence on oil use. In order to allow for further development of transport and, on the other hand, to reduce the negative impact of transport on the environment and the dependence on oil imports, it is necessary to develop preconditions for the use of alternative energy in transport. This should be achieved by means of a series of policy initiatives including the development of transport using alternative fuels as well as the development of belonging infrastructure. It doesn't matter what I say. I'll turn off the microphone. It's an important picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21814	My colleagues are very interested in what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21815	If they were interested, this wouldn't be necessary. In line with the currently available technology, taking into account the European environment and the EU legal framework, i.e. Directive 2014/94 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October on the establishment of infrastructure for alternative fuels SLL 307 28.10.2014, hereinafter referred to as Directive 24/11/94 EU Republic of Croatia, the alternative energy for the development of the transport system includes electricity,... hydrogen, biofuels, natural gas, incinerated gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't have time to look up, so feel free to stop me. Unless... and the use of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia so far there is an extremely limited use of other... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Transport energy with a very low market for non-oil-free means of transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to implement the provisions of the legal framework for the use of alternative energy in transport and the development of energy infrastructure, which is yet to be used insufficiently, this law is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21816	Here's a thank you very much for your contribution to this topic. Dear Representative Bojan Glavasevic. [[Bauk: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll pick up where my colleague Bauk left off, hopefully a little bit more pronounced because of his colleagues on the other side. In order to implement the provisions of the legal framework for the use of alternative energy in transport and the development of energy infrastructures that are still used to an insufficient extent. This law is passed. The implementation of the law will be monitored in a manner consistent with the guidelines for the transposition of Directive 2014/94EU by national policy frameworks and other binding documents, i.e. State and reporting assessments. This proposal for a law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia transposes Directive 2014/94EU by harmonising Croatian legislation with the EU acquis in the area of infrastructure development, alternative fuels in transport. Directive 2014/94EU aims at equating the conditions for the development of the EU transport network. The objective is to develop alternative fuel infrastructure as a prerequisite for the use of alternative energy in transport to achieve sustainable transport system development with minimal negative effects on the environment and society. Basic issues that need to be settled by this law. The law lays down measures to encourage and develop infrastructures for alternative fuels, and entities to be executed by state administrations are responsible for transport infrastructure, energy, environmental protection, construction, internal affairs and finance, as well as local and regional authorities, i.e. regional self-government. The most important issues covered by this proposal for a law resulting from the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2014/94EU relate to the establishment of minimum requirements for the construction of alternative fuel infrastructures, including places to charge electric vehicles and natural gas supply sites, which are gas ingested, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21818	Thank you very much. Of course, what you have now done does not conflict with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, it fits the practice of parliamentaryism and even the history of parliamentaryism. [[Intruder Glavasevic: Thank you.]] However, I am not sure that it contributes to the reputation of this House because your message that you wanted to convey could be conveyed differently, in other ways from seeking a break and delivering as you have conveyed each other's message until a press conference is called, etc. etc. Therefore, I plead with all my colleagues to try to contribute to the integrity of this House, not to destroy it, within the framework of parliamentaryism. Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'll open up the debate. The first one came forward for the debate, and on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the distinguished representative, Michael Zmajlovic, will speak on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21819	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal for a law on the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructure at first sight seems to support it, because the explanation is that we are in fact just harmonizing with the European Directive and it does not really contain anything controversial. Because its purpose is just to transpose the provisions of the directive. But what's controversial here is that this law only bears that ambitious title. The key elements of the implementation of the directive are not contained in this proposal at all. That is why we believe that the adoption of this law is necessary, but that there are no implementing measures in the law which are sufficiently precise and clearly defined how the directive will be implemented. Another important element is that Croatia had until 18.11. this year to fully implement the provisions of this Directive. So we're late and with this law we're actually just buying time and we've made copy pastes of the provisions of the directive. Therefore, it is not known how many chargers will be, how they will be spread, which are alternative fuels which are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia which will be used to reduce emissions in transport, etc. This is all transferred to a document called the national policy framework, which is also not clearly seen from the law and what should be defined precisely, who will be the bearers of the implementation. So you're not giving a clear frame. It is very clear that this law is important and that this infrastructure is important, because while projects are being developed on the one hand to better connect transport routes on the other hand, there are, of course, ambitious targets for reducing the pollution emissions that occur in the transport sector. Almost a quarter of EU greenhouse gas emissions are generated in the Transport Sector. The additional problem is also the dependence of European transport and Croatian oil transport, most of which comes from imports. And since imported oil mainly comes from increasingly unstable areas around the world, it further increases supply uncertainty, thus jeopardising the regular functioning of transport. From the previously explained needs for the development of the transport sector, while taking into account the demanding objectives of reducing environmental pollution and reducing dependence on fuel imports, there is a clear need for diversification of energy sources in transport. In this context, it is also necessary to impose a solution in terms of the establishment and strengthening of alternative fuel infrastructures which are considered acceptable to the environment as well as conventional fuels such as gasoline and diesel. Such an option has been recognised at EU level, and a directive on the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructure has been adopted, which was to be transposed or transposed into the Croatian national legislative framework. The development of total transport in terms of precisely these alternative fuels faces a well-known vicious circle, which is that investors do not invest their capital in infrastructure building because there is insufficient demand on the market. Furthermore, the price generated by alternative fuels is very high due to low customer demand, and on the other hand, customers do not want to purchase such vehicles since they are expensive and due to the lack of adequate infrastructure. Therefore, the need to support public authorities is unequivocally in order to overcome these problems, which are achieved at EU level by the said Directive. The previous government, therefore the government in which I was the minister, started implementing this directive and, in fact, a system of incentives for electric hybrid hybrid hybrid plug-in vehicles was established at one applied level. So in two years on Croatian roads we have registered 1347 hybrid vehicles, 156 electric vehicles and 70 hybrid plug-in vehicles, which has shown that this is one huge trend of increasing such vehicles that should ultimately result in reduced emissions. In parallel, the construction of a network of chargers, electric chargers, as well as a charger for other fuels such as compressed natural gas was encouraged. So the first chargers were set up in Rijeka, vehicles released, buses driven by natural gas were also followed by the city of Zagreb after Rijeka. But what is disputed here is that implementation has been completely stopped. So in 2016 you have no incentive for electric vehicles, the construction of a network of chargers has been stopped and absolutely Croatia is no longer implementing anything on this trail. In addition to these fundamental strategic problems, I also have observations on certain specific articles, which is that Article 4 actually prescribes a literal Article 3 of the Directive defining the content of the national policy framework. It is entrusted to the national coordination body, which is the CEI and what is important to emphasise that Member States should notify the Commission of these national policy frameworks by 18.11.2016, so we are late. Where is our national policy framework? And I can't get the impression that this law has been passed just to establish some legal basis so that we can buy time and postpone sanctions and pay certain penalties and pens for not passing on or not respecting these deadlines. And the result of all this is that we go in reverse order, we do the law first, and then we do the details of the analysis through the policy framework and set the goals, and define the measures to achieve the objectives. And the generosity of this approach is, in my view, that there are many formulations in this law, such as: An appropriate number of publicly available places for charging electricity, etc. will be established, and it does not answer the question of who will ask them, which is the appropriate number, who will finance it, what are the financial models, who will pay for it and what is the fundamental question that is the purpose of this law if it is so undefined. Such formulations shall also be extended through Articles 6, 7, and 8. the minimum technical conditions prescribed by the Directive shall be adopted which is good. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And that's great, too, from the directive, but the directive provides a framework. But Croatia and this bill should contain more detailed implementing provisions. So this bill should have answered the question, which means justifiable and non-discriminatory. Will there be any price-setting methodology? Who will control and even how will this provision be implemented in practice? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So totally inconclusive law. The national policy framework, which will give an assessment of the situation of market development and concrete measures for law enforcement, will be developed later, as we find wrong. And it is precisely this debate in the Croatian Parliament that makes no sense because it is necessary to know first what measures we will take and how much it will contribute or not contribute to the Croatian economy and its citizens. The construction of infrastructure for both electric vehicles and compressed natural gas requires a prerequisite for development, not just rough meeting EU targets. And now that we see a bill like this that's completely non-injurious and doesn't define anything and we take into account the suspension of the vehicle supply incentives that are driven into alternative fuels, the suspension of the charging network. On the other hand, additional burden through the tax reform of local self-government units, which also as public authorities must participate in this, and, on the third hand, through tax reform, has led to the purchase of cheaper vehicles that have lower emissions, less consumption, they are less accessible to our Croatian citizens, so we have opened a space for importing used vehicles with high CO2 emissions, polluting, reducing traffic safety on Croatian roads. The question arises whether this Croatian government communicates with one another in the resolutions and whether they recognize strategic, Croatian strategic national interests. In my view, the national interest is to keep Croatia clean, green, it is a tourist country, and if we want to keep it that way, we cannot encourage the purchase of used vehicles that pollute the environment, which threaten the safety of road traffic, and this bill and set of laws adopted in this House that complete tax reform actually leads to one chaos, the collapse of the market on the one hand, and on the other hand to increased pollution in transport. That's why I can say in front of the SDP Club that we can't support a bill like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21820	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, the good part of your debate is fine and it's really true. But I answered the line to remind you maybe when you mentioned how you as a minister encouraged it all together, to remind you that the Environmental Protection Fund is in a thick deficit, that you as a minister spent two years in advance the funds you didn't even have, and that it's probably one of the main reasons why there are no incentive measures for this problem right now. Have you forgotten that? If you've forgotten, I remind you, and here it is, a colleague here behind me to remind you of that part of your megalomaniac desires for beautiful spaces that neither Westin nor Sheraton have at the very least, so you've made it possible. You've been a minister, and it's really funny for me now that you're saying it's not good that there's no incentive measures, and I'm saying, I repeat, you left behind a huge deficit in the fund, you spent the money in advance, you centralized it all together to be away from the eyes and local self-government, and you mentioned it here. And now you're saying this isn't good. Let's just go back a few days when we discussed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21822	Thank you. The esteemed representative Michael Zmajlovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21823	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hrg, I'll remind you that the 2016 Financial Plan has just been brought by this government, your HDZ Government and the Most. That this is the government's responsibility for the deficit. Not the previous government. The source of that deficit is bad planning, you see who signed the Financial Plan and who was responsible for the realization. I'll tell you, let me, the result of that deficit is the sole management of the fund. Growth in expenditures continued while revenues were reduced through parafiscal burdens. Total collapse of the special category management system, by waste, that's 300 million minus. And as far as energy efficiency is concerned, you were unable to withdraw 150 million kunas planned at the position of the Ministry of Construction. That's all you've been through on the rebalancing. This should have ended in the fund and such a deficit was not from the aspect of energy efficiency. And please, don't manipulate and deceive the Croatian public. And as for precisely energy efficiency in transport, so all of you who were mayors and mayors know that the activity of the Environmental Protection Fund, to be honest, is ten times increased in the mandate of the previous SDP government. Ten times, and this says the fact that when municipalities and cities conducted an energy reconstruction of family homes, up to 700, 800 houses were spent annually, and in a year of implementation after this model, 8 to 10 thousand family houses. That's how we left you a fixed portfolio, and by continuing your free fall and mismanagement of the Environmental Protection Fund, it's a responsibility and only you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21824	Please, be quiet. Thank you very much. The next should speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, the esteemed. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next Club of Representatives, the HDZ, in the name of which the distinguished representative Darko Horvat will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21825	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected legislators, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Listening to the careful exposure here is the predecessor of his colleague, Zmajlovic, I would say unlike some others that he could agree with about 50 percent of what he said. What is the fact, on 18.11.2016, of a directive that should have been transposed into Croatian national legislation by then is not, not until today, but we are aware that this directive is from 2014. All of 2014, the whole 2015, and now it would be nice, I'd say, that both sides of the Parliament find out: yes, we're too late. Maybe these six months the HDZ government is guilty of this, but for two years I would say the anemics of the coalition government and the guilt of that resistor. So, one fact that is given here from this speaker that the law is very general, that the law does not have implementing measures, that the law does not have implementing acts, I will only remind myself that the sublegal acts that will be drawn up under this law are an integral part of the law and precisely defining national policies through the recording of the situation will give action plans based on the implementation that will be achieved through those objectives which are through this national framework, will start in 2016 and will not stop until the moment it is met. I'll remind you of another fact. So when we talk about this alternative fuel portfolio, then we are aware of the fact that in Croatian legislation we have the Law on Renewable Sources based on which it was made in the European Commission and verified and now already in the development of a second national action plan, we have a law on energy efficiency based on which we also have certain action plans. And I have to admit that I was uncomfortable with the fact that I was apostrophe a little earlier from this pay phone that it might have been wiser to draw up national action plans first, so based on these national action plans to create a legal framework based on which they would have been adopted. I think it's completely wrong and I think this is the right way. So the law which, I will agree, is one general legal framework, by adopting a law which we will oblige the Resort Ministry to take within 6 months all the implementing measures necessary and necessary to achieve the objectives of this topic, so through the national policy framework, the adoption of this law in the next 6 months will just be defined by all these action plans. The fact that the emergency procedure is therefore defined is precisely by the directive in question No. 94 of 2014 must be transposed into Croatian legislation and in accordance with Articles 204 and 2o6. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament I am convinced that that is exactly what will happen. So I will not repeat this performance which has been carried out by reading a single assessment of the situation and the basis that preceded the adoption of this law, what is the fact that, in accordance with currently in the Republic of Croatia, available technologies and taking into account our European environment and the EU legal framework under consideration, Directive 94 from 2014 treats alternative fuels with electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, biofuels that already exist today and are used in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which are diesels, bioethanol, natural gas and oil gas. So what is the goal, or what is the real purpose of this law? The aim of the methodology is to develop the infrastructure, the infrastructure needed in order to put vehicles in a certain amount through the use of various incentive measures on the Croatian market, which would then not be limited by the radius of movement and by some other limits, but through the infrastructure in question would allow them to use and traffic normally for Croatian traffic. Likewise, the moment when we create an opportunity for market conditions or market developments for such energy products will result in one synergy and at that moment we will not require or need encouraging measures from the state budget based on which such vehicles will be purchased will already be priced and some other comparative advantages of such vehicles will be far more accessible to the Croatian citizen. So what are we actually talking about, or what are the basic questions the law answers to? Therefore, the law must lay down minimum requirements for the construction of alternative fuel infrastructures, including places to charge electric vehicles and natural gas and hydrogen supply sites, as well as existing technical specifications, and you have well apostropheeded, and there, a colleague of Zmajlović, with you fully agree, we have not invented hot water, but we have been subject to technical specifications that are normal in our European environment simply transposed into laws and sublaws. A key document that is yet to be expected and a large part of the work that the ministry and some other institutions have yet to do is a national policy framework. So again, a legal environment within which action plans will be developed, so from an assessment of the current situation and future development of the alternative fuel market, national, individual and common objectives for the establishment of infrastructure, the necessary measures to achieve national individual and common objectives, measures that can prescribe the setting up of alternative fuel infrastructures as part of public transport services. And yet again, at the beginning of the year, there was a big radical shift already in the adoption of the 2016 budget. One large part of the incentive measures include the subsidisation of interest on entrepreneurship loans and other measures. They were simply expelled, excluded from co-financing from the state budget, we turned to European funds. And I would say that is perhaps even one little excuse why the inflow of these funds at the moment is not in those monthly tranches that it is through certain tenders and projected because correspondence with the Commission and with the consent of the tender documents with the Commission still takes a little longer. Another important task that the law represents in front of people who will be involved in the production of NOP. So national policies and from this booth were also apostrophe that there was no inter-resorial co-operation of this government. They simply commit to inter-resorship cooperation in Article 4. So I'm going to read just one sentence, so the NOP is in line with the laws of transport, energy, spatial planning and environmental protection. I cannot interpret this sentence at all but the basis of a cross-resorship cooperation which is the basis for the NOP in question to grow into a quality action plan which will have concrete measures and concrete implementation. The law in question also defines the reporting and notification methodology and the law in question provides a legal framework for the provision of electricity, hydrogen supply, natural gas and what should ultimately be one such general law, it creates assumptions for the adoption of an action plan. The formation of national policy and when we are discussing today what is the main cause of non-existentness, I would say even unpopular incentive measures because in 2014, 2015, 2016, and in addition to the accounts that are still coming from published tenders from 2015, I will not say directly from the state budget but given that the budget of the Environment Protection Fund, which is also at the level of billions and 800 million kuna in 2016, has been breached for nearly five hundred million kunas, is very indicative of what the competitions from 2014 and 2015 have just created a deficit in the budget of the Environmental Protection Fund, and whose deficit was then eliminated in general, any perspective of any kind of incentive measures as they were given in 2014 and 2015. The HDZ Final Club will support this law, the HDZ Club, regardless of one slight delay, believes that the legislative framework in question is good and I believe that through the definition of national policies but primarily through the recording one quality recording of the situation found. Through the law in question, we can also get a legal framework for the adoption of the applicable implementing acts in the first half of the following year and for the time being in 2017 we also have certain benefits from the sublegal acts in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21826	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the real lawyer, Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21827	Thank you very much. So I can also agree with one part of your exposure because it matches what I said. But I cannot agree that history, that Croatia has no history. In fact, nothing happened before the HDZ and MOST government arrived. Therefore, the expert basis for the national policy framework was developed in the last quarter of 2015. So it exists. And all of 2016, instead of the measures being developed and the concrete story about the establishment of this infrastructure has actually been developed for the whole year and we have passed one framework law and now we expect the next 6 months to further analyze something and we actually did it, you have it in drawers left in the last quarter of 2015 made of a prominent Croatian one institute, the ministry ordered, I think that traffic, seafaring and connections. So, professional bases exist and there was no reason to pass this kind of framework law, it could have been more specific because I am sure that this law will experience changes when it comes to concrete policy-making and policy-making and you will see that it will need something to change and a legislative framework so that we can generally implement this law. As regards the fund and the incentives for the purchase of electric and hybrid vehicles at year level, which was from 15 to 18 million kuna, this should not be a problem in 2016 to maintain continuity and the revenues from the fund were not only from the state budget, but from certain fees, but from European funds, particularly related to these measures from the emission trading system, therefore revenue from European funds. So I don't think there was any reason not to keep one continuity because it started to create a market, the network of chargers started working parallelly, and the market for such vehicles was encouraged and I think it was a good thing to continue and I believe it wants to continue because it's the state's interest in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21828	Thank you. The Honorable representative Darko Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21829	So instead of answering, I could start by correcting an incorrect quote. So it's never been said from this pay phone that nothing has ever been done or that the coalition government has done anything. But I just mentioned the fact that the directive under consideration came to the government's desks in 2014. And everything okay. At one point, she got a little bit neglected, it's past fourteen, it's past fifteen, and we have bases at sixteen, and I agree with that. And there you are absolutely right and colleagues who have also made this law, so the legislator who made this legal framework based on these bases, and I will say by the methodology of accepting what the previous government left unlike some of the things that I personally witnessed, where someone who was either after me or after us had come empty closets and everything that had been done was completely irrelevant. So, yes, colleagues will take these bases and these bases will be useful for drawing up an implementing act. And colleague Zmajlović, take almost every law and try to find in which law an action plan has been implemented, in which law is implemented any rule. So to build laws in this way, then we shouldn't have any decisions, nor rules, nor action plans, nor any other sublegal act. That's why I think this is the basis, that this is the legal framework within which the story comes into the development of implementing acts, implementing measures. And I agree with you completely one large part of those technical specifications that Europe simply gave us or served no one will forget or use but we will simply transpose them into this action plan and the same rules which are worth in the countries of our environment in the following year will also be valid in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21830	Thank you. Comrade Horvat, please just warn me of something, or correct it. The Ministry, or Government, is the legislator of the law. We're legislators, we're a legislative body. We must always be aware of that. But the next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you have expressed surprise with the SDP's position on behalf of counterpart Zmajlovic that action plans are being done first, and then the legislative legal framework. Why are you surprised at that? Well, that's exactly what he was doing as a minister. And it wasn't just him, there were other ministers in that government who were doing just that. They shared money without regulations, without the right ones, to say some rules of the game that should be, without many being able to report at all. And there are some indications that they even shared new ones from the Environmental Protection Fund from his portfolio at the time in a way that some did not go through the competition, so they got the money, so they may have spent it unintendedly. And I am convinced that in this time, the Minister of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises, you have often been in the situation to hear from the complaint of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen especially of those construction works, the construction sector which complained that the Fund had remained in debt to them for the works they had done. And then today we hear here when the former minister says they haven't spent their money in advance. They spent what they didn't have, I don't understand your surprise at all this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21832	Thank you. The Honorable representative Darko Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21833	Well, here's a thank you, colleague Hrg. So it wasn't a surprise. It was simply an experience of everything that they agreed with you and craftsmen, micro, small and medium entrepreneurs lived through. But not only the weird methodology of negotiating jobs through the Environmental Protection Fund. So, the fact is that I was part of the government that at one point was unable to find any other solution allowed minus the fund's business account at the level of 150 million kuna, and after that, by piling up those invoices, we came up with the need to allow a minus on the business account of nearly 400 million kuna. And now that he's tried to explain to me what caused it, and he's aware of the fact that we had the same dynamics as in 2015, 2016. But it wasn't a problem with the income side, it was a problem with the expenditure side. And you don't have to agree with me, but it's very easy to check. And now that we're going to ask the existing fund manager why he hasn't called any such or similar contests in this year, so it's a very simple answer. Therefore, by virtue of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, if you cannot provide funding sources in positions of the budget, then you cannot plan the expenditure side towards the revenue side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21834	Thank you. The next is the replica of the distinguished representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21835	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Horvat. I'd prefer that you put out in this presentation of what has been done so far and what they actually said a little bit through the replicas how much has been done to protect the environment and these energies that we need to use, I'd prefer to hear it, and a lot of money has been spent. I would like to suggest why, as a Croatian state, we already have large producers of hybrid electric cars, not giving special benefits to the citizens to import it, so that at least we can be the first in something in Europe? We don't have enough oil, we have God's gas, and that's what it's all about. About the luxury that they had in protecting the environment and their spaces we already know well, I just want to know how much of what was done and what was going to be done in the next four years. And these laws, the subjugation, the adoption, are constantly being passed, and you can't really see anything. So every four years, we're going to change the laws again, and why don't we just get the law done and see it and get it out so much, and we're going to do that. I believe that the Croatian state has a chance to give citizens a chance to import electric cars, hybrid cars and that we are a tourist country, we see for ourselves that the world is going that way. The Germans have built thousands of connections for electric cars that can be 400km, 500km already reaching distances, and I think it might be good for us to define a part of the program where Europe may recognize us, allow citizens at normal prices to import vehicles and to be stimulated by the state in that part. If a billion 800 million were spent on protecting the environment, not to mention our dumps and everything else that was not done, I believe that in Croatia so far is neither by chance nor 20% made of what was needed. And I'd like to know what's going to be done for the next four years. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21836	Thank you. I don't know if my colleague Horvat will be able to answer you, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21837	Here's a very short one. I fully agree with the remarks and what I said and from the pay phone in order to develop and play the market at all, you have to create assumptions. The assumptions are the creation of infrastructure, but not the way it has been done in the Republic of Croatia over the past ten years. It's a verse, a methodology that doesn't even exist, a legal framework that doesn't create any obligation or legal framework that it doesn't actually have. So, this story has so far been, in the Republic of Croatia, partially defined in several other laws, unarranged, without any implementing act. Finally, I would say, unfortunately, not because we thought of it ourselves, but because Europe has simply forced us to, we get a legal framework within which an action plan or national policy will develop and create a methodology of the site where such charging facilities must work according to how much such means of transport will be or will come into the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21838	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21839	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, you have seen here since the beginning of the debate and you have seen that colleagues from the SDP on the proposal of the law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels have shown the letter U, they also expected the letter U squared because it is actually their only alternative i.e. The only infrastructure or only fuel that obviously drives them. And they're trying to try this one debate that should be a quality that speaks about the future they're trying to keep in the past, even mocking that past and their own work, if you've been listening to a colleague who spoke on behalf of a club that's managed to say here today we've heard already spend a 500 million kunas that were intended just as an incentive for many areas especially in what we're talking about today. And then they ask us, and when are you going to pay it back, when are you going to pay back that 100 billion public debt that we've managed to borrow in four years, when you're going to solve it, and why didn't you get there in a month and a half. A simple party that works from record to board of various contents in the past, and I don't think it takes too much to listen to it. Let's insist on what we're talking about, let's clearly show them that there are ways that there are laws, but that every law also has implementing acts that are like a rulebook, like a regulation that will come after this. And it should not be taken into account their remarks because what I say to a former minister who tells the regulation, the EU directive is super-legal, but everything after that is no longer right, as if it were not a minister and as if I don't know that there are opportunities for each of these articles to be worked out through regulations, regulations, etc. And it'll be much more detailed. But I say we leave them in the past and let them live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21840	Honorable representative Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21841	So here's one short sentence as an answer. So, this law is one of those laws where I hardly even see politics, so this is a fully technical law that will obtain in the implementing act a methodology that will be supported by formulas, numbers, impulses are important and the results of that methodology will depend on the credibility of these impulses. The sooner, the sooner the methodology is constructed and we start using it, the sooner we start building the system and with a verse that was present today, we'll start building a system that will slowly get a head and tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21842	And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Horvat, you've made it very clear that this later understanding of things that haven't been done is actually unnecessary. This legislative proposal is certainly welcome and it will have a good legal framework for further support in simulating this form. But it is forgotten to say what you mentioned about the Environmental Protection Fund that the budget rebalance that was passed covered what was breached and that 750 million kunas were secured to keep those agreed forms that had been paid. This is what seems to be the abuse of power of office when something unplanned is negotiated and shared. It is one item in all affairs of those who managed the ministry as well as the fund. And the largest one is equal, perhaps even bigger than the Mountain when the ministry moved to a building built by former director Sven Muller, and became head of the Environmental Protection Fund. And in that bush lies all this advanced mind, all this blurry with this law, and I believe that institutions are doing their job, so they're going to expose this biggest affair of former environmental managements as well as the fund. There's a rabbit in that bush. And it was nice to see the Toyotas being stimulated as hybrids using alternative fuels and probably one for former managers of his family's ministry. These are all the things that we will first create for ourselves, according to that first god, and then we will create for everyone else, and today we will be smart without need because what we were supposed to do about 2014 until today we haven't touched.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21844	Thank you. The Honorable representative Darko Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21845	Well, now I'd have to turn back again and say what I tried to somehow leave out of this pay phone, and I'd have to repeat my colleague, Dragonovich, so it wasn't said that nothing was done. There's a few of our speakers who said there was a lot going on. Now that and for what purpose, I agree with that we are legislators, I have welcomed the legislators here, and all these affairs and all these events that followed in 2014 and 2015 are somehow removed from this assembly and let the bodies of others do their job. And with what result, I am in that the results of these analyses and these investigations and we hear here as parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21846	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word would be taken by the esteemed Maja Markovčić Kostelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21847	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's what I'm going to try to do through this final presentation to refer to all the comments we've made so far. So, compared to the remarks that the respected representative Zmajlovic made in relation to the SDP's Club, it refers to the fact that this legal proposal is indicative, unsustainable and impregnable. So, as I was saying in the introduction, this law really represents a legislative framework, a necessary legislative framework based on a national policy framework that contains concrete measures. Without this law, it is not possible to adopt a national policy framework because it is simply a necessary prerequisite for adoption. We didn't sleep, we didn't wait for this law to be passed to create a national policy framework. The national policy framework, I have its summary here, is over and will be adopted and adopted by the Croatian government immediately after the adoption of this law. We're not waiting for a legal deadline of six months. It was designed, it was based on a very wide public debate preceded by both production and professional bases, but in which the entire spectrum and industry, different industry concerned, national councils, scientific institutions and, of course, the competent authorities participated. This national policy framework speaks of concrete measures in the area of infrastructure, but also of concrete measures on the use of certain means of transport. In order for that to be much clearer, I will read here some basic elements that the national policy framework brings, but before that let me refer to another fact. Here the thesis is that, over the past year, the development of the infrastructure network has actually been stopped, for alternative fuels, which has been completely missed because 126 new charging stations have been built in the last year alone. Furthermore, HEP has applied and received through CEF funds from the European Commission based on a Mediterranean corridor to establish 27 ultra fast chargers for electric vehicles. Likewise, we can share some dissatisfaction with the recent year's Environment Protection Fund why insufficient funds for the development of transport policies have been spent. But this is due to the fact that more funds have been spent in other policies such as restoring the energy efficiency of the construction sector. We are not satisfied with the fact that, during the previous Government, the gross of those measures aimed at energy-efficient vehicles, aimed at hybrid vehicles for which there is no scientific basis that would show that it really effectively reduces emissions. Through these measures of the national policy framework, we want to focus our policy and concrete measures on encouraging those resources that have proven to reduce harmful emissions and can achieve those objectives that we have set both through this law and the national policy framework. So here are the infrastructures for alternative fuels, when we talk about electricity, by 2020 the gas station will be available on every 50 km of highway, and in all agglomerations with more than 20 thousand inhabitants will also be available chargers, as well as in all sea, air and inland ports and railway stations. In relation to seaports and ports of river transport, it will be necessary to establish the supply of electricity from land for inland waterways and seaboats. First of all in the ports of the basic TNT network and in other ports until 31 December 20125. Furthermore, by 31 December 2025, loading stations will be set up in the ports of Rijeka, Vukovar, Slavonski Brod and by 2020 if there is no shortage of such charging facilities and so on. Complementary network. When we talk about, for example, the gas ingested, then the need for construction is foreseen for the closure and supply of gas in Rijeka until 2025 and in other ports until 2030. Of course, since it is overlooked every three years to assess the effectiveness of these measures it is possible that this dynamic will be needed and accelerated. As regards the network on the inland waterways, the need for the construction of the infrastructure for the prevention and supply of gas in Vukovar and Slavonski Brod is foreseen and we will also review the assessment of the necessary infrastructure in line with the market development as already said every three years starting in 2019. As far as compressed natural gas is concerned, on the basis of an economic cost-effective fuel assessment, it is envisaged to build a car charger in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Dubrovnik, Karlovac, Sisak, Osijek, Varazdin, Čakovec and Zagreb. These cities predict the construction of 13 compressor systems with the possibility of simultaneously charging personal vehicles, cargo vehicles and buses. I could read the whole spectrum here, but there will be opportunities to present and we will publicly present all the measures envisaged by national policy. But once again, I stress the adoption of the law is simply a prerequisite that we can even adopt a national policy framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21848	Thank you very much. We would therefore conclude the debate on this point and vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21849	Next is the final proposal of the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 48. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 100 for, 3 abstentions and 24 against the passed Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21850	We will move to the next point, and that is: - Final proposal of the Law on combined freight transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 53; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Reclaimed State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Maja Markovčić Kostelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21851	Thank you very much. This is another legislative proposal that achieves similar objectives as with the previous law. Therefore, harmful road transport emissions are reduced and relevant parts of the EU acquis are introduced into the Croatian legal system. The Combined Transport Act therefore provides for the full application of three European Directives, namely Council Directive 92/106/EC, Council Directive 2006/13/EC and Council Directive 2013/22. In fact, we previously had the implementing provisions of these directives, however, that was not enough. And the European Commission was on the verge of launching a pilot against the Republic of Croatia, which of course further encouraged us to bring this legislative framework fully into line. What will we achieve by passing this law? We will therefore ensure that part of road freight transport is directed towards more environmentally acceptable modes of transport, such as rail transport, maritime transport and waterway transport. In what way? So in a way that road transport operators will be stimulated to pay registration fees, when registering tow vehicles, freeing them from part of the public road charges. This measure has also been overlooked by the Directive, so it has been harmonised in all EU countries as one word and this measure refers to the promotion of combined transport throughout the EU wherever this measure is implemented. In one word, the Croatian carrier will prove on the basis of the cargo list that it has achieved the conditions laid down by law for the use of relief and will be able to use this privilege when registering in the Republic of Croatia. If there are any additional questions, I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21852	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to appear on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative, Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21853	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government. The HDZ advocates' club will support the final draft of the combined freight transport law. By adopting a new Law on combined freight transport, it is further harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU. It is an obligation to comply with the provisions of the Council Directives relating to transport policy and combined transport of goods and this law will systematically regulate the issues of measures to promote combined freight transport. And the goal, as we have heard, is to reroute to environmentally acceptable forms of transport, thus contributing to the decommissioning of road roads, to reducing the consequences of traffic accidents, to saving energy, and to reducing environmental pollution and noise levels. The law also provides an important assumption for the implementation of measures to reduce greenhouse gases and air protection. The law more clearly defines certain concepts in the rights and responsibilities of legal persons dealing with the carriage of cargo, the Law on combined freight transport also defines distances in combined freight transport in accordance with the Directive. In the case of combined freight transport, the carriage of goods between Member States where a truck, trailer, semi-trailer with or without a tow truck, an exchange box or container of 20 feet and more is used on the road at the initial or completed section of the journey and in the transport section by rail, inland water or sea, that share must be longer than 100 km of the air line. In the case of transport of goods carried out by road, the initial and final share of combined transport should normally be as short as possible. Furthermore, the law defines all the conditions for carrying out transport in combined freight transport and incentive measures. A measure encouraging combined freight transport is based on the reduction or compensation of the annual fee for the use of public roads to be paid in the registration of tow and connection vehicles. Therefore, the resolution ministry provides for the adoption of a regulation which will elaborate in more detail on the incentive measures and the compensation to be taken, relating to all tow and connection vehicles involved in the combined carriage of cargo. In the 2017 and 2018 budget projections, the funds for the implementation of this law amounting to 2 million kuna are provided, but we cannot be certain how much of the projected resources will be sufficient because today we cannot determine exactly what quantities of transported goods are carried around, which took part in the combined transport of cargo, because the Statistics Office sees all the data collected and portrays as domestic transport of goods. Of course, the ministry will have to make additional efforts from and from their professional services and will likely receive these data through the stakeholders involved in the transport. In line with the White Paper, which defines the development strategy and future of transport in the EU, greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by at least 40% between 2021 and 2030. This means that the transport sector should use less energy and energy that is cleaner, make better use of modern infrastructure and reduce its impact on the environment. The White Paper also says that by 2030, the target is to reroute 30% of the load from the road to the railway and to the waterways and by 2050, as much as 50% of the cargo from the road to the railway and waterways. These objectives and Europe can hardly be achieved and our railways should not be mentioned in this context because since 2011 the decline in transport on our railways has been more than 2 million tonnes of goods. But European guidelines best speak, or signal where to invest, and what, among other things, the future of Croatia's development can be built on. Unfortunately, we did not follow those guidelines from a series of facts. Croatia's railway infrastructure needs complete reconstruction and modernisation, and if this doesn't move quickly, the railway will lose the sense of existence. Just yesterday, members of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee received a disturbing letter from the train traffic union warning us that they are writing a disturbing deviation from the safety of rail transport in HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. in which they state that incidents, disturbances and faults occur multiple times at railway and road crossings which will inevitably lead to the worst accidents of those with human victims if nothing is done. This letter shows that the non-famous record means a rail-road crossing with the largest number of malfunctions on HZ Infrastructure lines has 128 malfunctions in 2016. I can also say from my personal experience that the train from Slavonski Brod to Zagreb was faster when I studied than it is today. So 30 years ago, it was possible to reach Zagreb in 2 hours, and today it takes more than 3 hours. In order to stop the decline of rail freight transport, as I have said, our priority must be to develop and modernise rail infrastructure and the great means of improving the railways are secured in European funds, but judging by the state and preparation of the projects and the size of the procedures, i.e. the complexity of these projects, I believe that we will make good use of them. Inland maritime transport is also an integral part of combined transport. Unfortunately, in Croatia, river transport is underdeveloped and the total amount of goods transported in Croatia has been judged with a small percentage. On the Sava River it is only the transport of crude oil from Slavonski Brod to Sisak, in the Danube there is a slightly better situation but as I said negligible in the total freight transport in Croatia. There are a number of activities we need to take to revive this type of traffic from the reconstruction and establishment of the waterway on the internal waters, construction and modernisation of the river ports, and to connect Croatia's internal waterway means the Danube and Sava multi-purpose Danube-Sava canal, which will cut the waterway to Western Europe by 4 hundreds of kilometers. In maritime transport, too, it is necessary to specialize in the Adriatic ports for the reception of certain types of cargo, equip and modernise it so as not to load, loading or manipulation of cargo inside the port represents a narrow throat in the combination of transport. It is important to point out that the Adriatic ports are the deepest in the European Union and are the shortest way for goods from the Middle and Far East. However, we are going back to the transport of Croatian railways and their further transport of goods to Europe. In addition to tourism and agriculture for future Croatian development, the transport sector is among the most important economic branches an efficient transport system is a basic prerequisite for competitiveness. We must work to promote an efficient, safe and sustainable transport policy that will meet the conditions for competitive industry and new jobs. Of course we will do everything to bring our legislation into line with European legislation, we will address all administrative obstacles. But that alone is not enough for the development of transport and overall development of the Croatian economy. In my view, it is now or never a challenge to modernise the transport system using European funds with a priority on rail and water infrastructure in all their dimensions and to include them in European traffic flows. It is the last time to take measures and activities to stop the negative trends in transport in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21854	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first to represent the Honorable Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21855	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Cosic, you mentioned the railways nicely, so I'd like to refer to the railways right now. We know that we come from Slavonia, you from Brod, me from Vinkovci and we all know that we have traveled up to 2 and a half hours to Zagreb. We have a Croatian state for 25 years. In 25 years, we've reduced the speed of the train to about four hours. Now we're traveling from Vinkovci. I wonder what we did. I see that the investments towards the Krisevci and Hungary are in full swing, not to mention the failures that they haven't done before. However, I am asking here in the Parliament and I am asking the Croatian public and all of you here how it is possible that the railway towards the east via Vinkovci, and down to Turkey, we did not make Greece, to tie to France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland and we invest somewhere in the secondary somehow via Hungary, and from Turkey and around goods go around Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Austria. So do we sleep in this country? Do we even know what we're doing? Is it possible that ours, I travel by train so I once from Novska to Gradiška the whole train stopped on two buses plus 35 was out there. I couldn't get off the bus, it was to get people to die. So I ask you, isn't the shame of the east of Croatia completely neglected. It is a disgrace to Croatia, including you, and gentlemen and you! It's like you woke up yesterday like you couldn't do anything. Investments are all wrong. From Vinkovec to Tovarnik we go 160 to Brod, and students and students go to Kutina for an hour and a half. So are we normal people? Are we normally investing in our country? It's like we're doing everything wrong! 300 thousand thresholds would raise 20% speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21856	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by distinguished representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21857	Thank you very much, dear fellow Misic. So here's what you've confirmed is that the state of the railway line that connects me to the east with the west of our country and that one was the backbone of transportation further to the Middle East. What do you say? This problem is not since yesterday, so it is not today, it has been going on for many years, and the EU's intensity is as we have heard that as much of the burden is being transferred to the railways and is the backbone of that combined transport. And that is why Croatia has received enough funds, which unfortunately has failed to launch so far, to realize in projects. The only project this year that I have to say has come alive and here is ready for implementation is Long Village – Crosses that are part of the same corridor, meaning low-level railways from Rijeka to Budapest and it is a very important corridor, and this corridor of the tenth, our corridor of which you have spoken about he has lost total goods ten times more goods going through this north corridor, corridor 4 that took this primate into the transport of goods. And I don't believe that so soon the transport of goods to this tenth corridor of ours, if we don't take it now, means decisive steps. We still have until 2020. We know that the problem is to build projects and study environmental impacts and all that it requires. But it's simply about time like I said now or never get into it, because otherwise the railroad will lose the meaning of its existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21858	Thank you. The next is the replica of prominent representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Ćosic, you spoke well about how the number of railways was reduced and how the speed was absolutely reduced. But the tens were shut down because of the inertness of the pruning directions that were functional. I would also refer to what is said about waterways. The waterways in the Republic of Croatia are totally abandoned and devastated. They don't follow at all... The convention, they do not respect what is necessary and necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary to connect a waterway with rail routes and thus achieve the cheapest transport of cargo and goods. That's what we must certainly do in the future, that's what must be the cheapest and fastest. Everything is narrowed down to the roads and most of the cargo is transported by road corridors and roads, and we can use the waterways and Drava and Sava and Danube, and then connect them to the rail transport. And that would make Croatia well connected and well-netified with these alternative directions, rather than crowded roads on our roads full of freight vehicles, full of traffic accidents, full of deaths and all that contributes to the final detailed debate only by turning back, not progressing. I therefore believe that the resolution of waterways is necessary and necessary to regulate the Ministry of Transport's orders in order to comply with EU directives, in order to be clean waterways, in order to be able to sail to the destinations defined in the strategy and which are committed to European conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21860	Thank you. The honourable representative Pero Ćosic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21861	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, you've noticed that well. Namely, the Sava River from our border with Serbia and to Sisak is an international waterway, the Danube is international, Drava is to Osijek, so we have rivers that are part of the international waterway, but their airworthiness is not possible except when certain waterways are because no waterway is arranged in that category for which the international waterway is prescribed, meaning that it is categorized for those rivers. For many years nothing has been done, the former government has abolished all the way to the Department of Interior, which I hope this ministry will return. We know that this management is compared to maritime navigation that it is a small administration, but it should be given importance because it will never be launched by internal navigation that is very important and very important for the transport of cargo either in combined transport or directly on the rivers. What should certainly be done means to continue building and modernising these ports that are started both in Slavonski Brod and in Vukovar and in Sisak, and this strategic project Danube-Sava needs to be organised and should be given to build in concessions or some other kind is it really going to be the backbone on the inland waterways and connecting and Sava with the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21862	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21863	Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The law has only ten articles, so three and a half pages of which six are purely technical. The first three are definitions and starting points, and the last three are completed provisions. Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall be copied from the relevant Directive. In fact, Article 4 of the Law constitutes Article 1 of the Directive and Article 5 of the Law of Article 4 of the Directive, and Article 6 of the Law is Articles 8 and 9 of the Directive and Article 7 of the Law is Article 3 of the Directive. The total directive has 12 articles. This is prescribed and this law is aimed at exclusively harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU. Now what's interesting about that law. For example, Article 6 states that it is allowed that the gross mass of vehicles which is... transport 42 and 44 tonnes, respectively, depending on the number of axles, which is a little contradictory with the largest permitted mass in Croatia, which is 40 tonnes. Now, the question is whether such a carrier reports an extraordinary transport, but it does not pay compensation or pay a reduced fee, so that's the first question. The second question, the law provides for two million kunas as a cost for implementing it in 2017, as much as in 2018, is therefore the means to promote combined transport, i.e. detimulation of road transport, i.e. To stimulate rail transport. The incentive would be in the form of partial or full exemption from the annual fee for the use of roads, which is paid after registration of the vehicle, which will subsequently be defined by the Minister by the Regulation. So that's where the deadline for the regulation should be shortened. Now, those two million kunas a year seem a little unserious. In principle, I see only here to satisfy the theory of equal form, form equals theory because, for example, in 2015, the government reduced the compensation to carriers of not the true god for that purpose but for another purpose, it was through the decommissioning of parafiscal duties and it was some hundred million kunas a year, and the question of whether they were such effects for the economy especially for the transport system. So I'm talking about 100 million kunas less parafiscal burdens, now we're talking about two million kunas of combined transport. The next thing is that these two million kunas are generally nothing, so it is questionable whether the law will live and return to its initial postulate that it is a law that meets the theory i.e. form. And one more thing, and that's that those two million kunas will be the cost of the County Road Administration, and I haven't seen about the vehicle registration I haven't seen in the law... of law or in some acts in which it will compensate to the County Road Administrations. And it is crucial that in our opinion, therefore, in the opinion of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP that the Energy Efficiency Fund could and should actually be involved in subsidising combined transport. This is definitely acceptable in the EU, but it is probably the reason that the fund in Croatia, as we heard from previous exposures, has run out of funds. That the fund participates with some kind of subsidy, not that it is transferred to regional self-government, my opinion that it would probably live up to the law because according to the information that is visible and available, so in 2016 the fund had a traffic plan of around 140 million kuna, and it spent only 36 million kuna. Probably for electric cars and bicycles. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will, because of these remarks that we have, in fact, be abstention in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21864	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of the Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21865	Here's the Honorable Chairman. So here I am really surprised at my colleagues from HDZ when they comment that we should clear the roads why our river paths don't work. I mean, Mr. Djakic, you've been here for the fourth term that memory doesn't cheat on me. I'm asking you who's been around all these years. I'm laughing a little bit, aren't I? [[Intruder Reiner: My colleague, I'm sorry, you are replicating the distinguished representative Hajdas Doncic.]] A little wider context Okay, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, yes, but you cannot replicate another representative.]] So, all these years we know very well who managed the railways, who ran the river roads, the transport, who ran the Croatian highways, and today we're discussing that our railways are not good, that they're worse before we ever studied, that our thresholds are rotten, that our speed is small, that the rivers don't sail ships. The Republic of Croatia does not remove gravel from Sava, Bosnia is practicing it. Because we don't take it out of the riverways we don't pass. Here we are trying to help truck drivers, they are really in a difficult position because of the great competition and competition that is from the European Union, and any assistance is welcome to them. However, there are many other things that we could save on this CO2 emissions, and there are people driving on auto-gas and they are being punished at a certain amount when they register their vehicles instead of having those 600 kn taken off so that more people get on auto-gas and reduce CO2 emissions. I think the railroad is in the worst situation it's in. All governments are this railroad, she was treated as a stepmom, and today not only do we not have a certain number of trains that used to drive but we have embarrassing speeds, so you can also use a tractor. I also appeal to the ruling, but to the opposition that we are really starting to work on helping the transporters, but also to help the railways, in extreme and Croatian people to finally drive decently and faster, so that they can cross 100km in an hour and a half, at least by rail, not in 3 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21866	Thank you. The honourable representative will answer. There isn't. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Hajdas Dončić, you stated in your presentation that for the implementation of this law that we agree should be adopted and brought into line with the European Union directives, only 2 million kunas were secured in the coming year and 2 in 2018, and I agree that this law requires a number of measures, projects and more resources to help the Croatian economy, in order to get rid of the traffic plugs that we have on Croatian railways between Slavonia and Zagreb. Only 40km from Novska to Okucan has been solved. And what about further investments? Why it wasn't more intensely done, that and you can answer why it wasn't more intensely done. And surely so, it is necessary to resolve the wateriness of the Sava River because in the last session it has been promised to remove the saddle barrier before Slavonski Brod. It took less than 2 million kunas to do that, not done. And also investments in ports, river ports, Slavonski Brod, Vukovar, Osijek, do not go at the rate that we should make such a law and measures that we want through the implementation of such laws. First of all, the five, six million kunas that are invested annually in the port of Brod, in its modernisation, and for the truck loading terminal on the railroad, are far too small. So I ask you why so little is invested, and we all want Slavonia and Baranja to develop, not to mention the Danube-Sava channel that all the countries of the Danube region put into strategic documents and priority. He is now silent about why this project is not being further built even though it was started in part from Babina Greda to Sikirevac. Part of that route was built. Why it is not further mentioned and it is a prerequisite for such laws to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21868	Thank you. The esteemed representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21869	Thank you very much. This is a fundamental problem that stems from a very simple fact, which is, unfortunately, Croatia entered the European Union a little late. It's the same thing when you come in, to make a little joke, at the party at 3:00 in the morning there's nothing left. No booze, no nothing. So we entered the European Union a little late when the corridors were already set. I do not want to go deeper into the debate now, but unfortunately I say about Slavonia that corridor is not strategic, you cannot co-finance it by, I will say the European Union's joint investment. You can only finance that corridor from Rijeka to the Hungarian border to Bortov. Because it's a tragedy. In fact, Croatia had no influence on that because it entered the European Union too late. That's also the problem with the Danube-Sava channel because it wasn't operational. That's the problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina and cleaning up Sava's trough. So you have too many things that you can't influence. So, not to defend the current minister now, it's just a fact. Because that's the key problem. I say, for traffic, we're a little too late to enter the European Union. We could've done some things a long time ago on our own, and then we could've just used the concession. Now it's gonna be really hard to do. Here's just one of my personal comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21870	Thank you. The individual debate was attended by distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, mostly in this law, which is really very short and which is a alignment with the European Directive, everything has already been said. I'd just like to give one different approach to this law than what's so far in the debate and what's been talked about. Therefore, combined transport involves the transport of goods in special cargo units on vehicles of at least two transport branches, where no goods are manipulated in places where vehicles of different transport branches are encountered. This means that it is possible to establish quality combined transport in the Republic of Croatia, necessary strategic approach to thinking and building traffic routes that can fulfil this combined transport task, which I believe is extremely important in order to reduce on the one hand the cost of transport of goods, and on the other hand through this other mode of transport, a cheaper and more environmentally acceptable contribution to environmental protection. In fact, this was also the most important intensities for which the directives are being adopted and which is why co-financed, subsidized combined transport in Europe and then in Croatia. However, in order to achieve combined transport in Croatia because we are talking about the law to be implemented in the territory of Croatia, it is necessary to strategically consider this combined transport and its development. I am sorry that, in the meantime, after the presentation on behalf of the SDP club, Mr Siniša Hajdas-Doncic presented his debate on behalf of the club, as we tried to discuss the strategy for the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia here in this assembly. I must say that this strategy that would significantly determine the development of combined transport in the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 2015, almost without any debate in the Croatian public and especially without any debate in the Croatian Parliament. I remember the strategy that preceded it, which was adopted in 1999 when the Croatian Parliament discussed the strategy for three days. The government of Zoran Milanovic is the same, or similar, and I think a less quality strategy has been adopted in just 15 seconds of debate at the cabinet's session. Why am I saying this? I am saying this for the reason why this strategy should be set in the financing of precisely those traffic routes which could encourage combined transport in Croatia. It was already this morning about the debate that, as two main branches of transport that allow cheaper goods to transport and contribute to the protection of the environment, railways and inland navigation in Croatia are completely abandoned. They are. But I must say that, practically after the war and after the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube Croatia has invested extremely much in the development of traffic routes in Croatia, though, in road traffic which is the most expensive form of transport of goods if compared with internal navigation and railways. And these first 10 years of this century were primarily marked, determined by investment in road traffic, in development, construction of highways and state roads, although financed by public funds with the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, which contributed to the growth of public debt. And now, in this second part, for the second decade, it remains for us to develop the combined, or those branches that contribute to the establishment and development of combined transport from EU funds, which the EU also encourages both in rail and inland navigation. In doing so, I must say that the internal navigation in our country is completely abandoned not only because it is not invested enough but primarily because it could not be invested in it until it has been established relations with, quality relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina that will enable the rehabilitation of the Sava River's waterway. When we talk about the Sava River, when we talk about setting up internal navigation, then we need to know that, for this purpose, the International Commission for the Sava River Basin is one of the fundamental tasks of helping Member States, that means both Croatia and Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia to establish the wateriness of the Sava River, at least at 1990 level. At this point, it is not possible because such relations have not been established which can be realised both by solving technical documentation and by obtaining a local permit and building permits and by means of EU funds, European funds, I speak at least to the level of the one that was until 1990. Namely, we are today witnessing that in, that on internal navigation even less than 0.2 total traffic of goods in the Republic of Croatia takes place on internal navigation and that is up to... anywhere around 6, it seems to me almost 6% of total traffic took place on internal navigation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the task of this government and this ministry is to really go into the project of regulating and rehabilitating the Sava River's waterway to bring the East of Slavonia back to life, which was previously discussed in order to invest both in Sisak and Slavonski Brod and in Osijek and in Danube, so all of our river ports. It is a pity that the former government abolished the Internal Navigation Agency, whose headquarters was in Vukovar and whose basic task was to develop internal navigation, as well as the primary and arrangements of the Sava River but also in any case also the Drava and the construction of the Danube port. So what I'm saying is, that this law could be implemented at all, it is necessary to edit that part of the combined transport that allows it to be implemented. It is clear that for this purpose in the state budget, we will single out only 2 million kunas alone speak enough. This in the first place says that we do not have enough carriers that can absorb more funds from the state budget. On the other hand, the sadder it is, to talk about the fact that we do not have the possibility of leaving other users of combined transport in the Republic of Croatia with that possibility. Unless, in addition to the railways and in addition to the inland navigation, we also set aside sea transport where the Republic of Croatia has invested heavily, very much in the construction of sea ports. Over the past 15 years, about 650m euros have been invested in Croatian ports and so on, two of the most important areas of Rijeka and Ploče, and two of the most important cargo ports have been invested in around 650m euros, again in large part of the debt, by the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, but if the construction and completion of the projects in Rijeka and Ploca is not answered by building that type of combined transport, which is the railway, and these 650m euros will remain the money used in the construction of infrastructure that we will not be able to fertilise. Therefore, the mission of this government, the task of this ministry is not only to... This law on combined transport than what is more important and this is to enable it to generate combined transport to the Republic of Croatia, which is by investing primarily in railways, on those corridors for which we will receive money from the EU and by investing in internal implementation, which is primarily in the rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway, the construction of Sisak, the construction of Slavonski Brod, the construction of Osijek and the arrangement of the port in Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we succeed in doing so, these are huge money for which funds can be obtained in the EU but if we do not, then this law itself, however far the implementation of the directive in Croatian legislation will remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21872	Thank you. We have on your presentation of a single replica that is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21873	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, you yourself have finally said in your debate that if we do not develop railway corridors, therefore the complete railway infrastructure will not liven up this law, and in that sense I mean one remark on your exposure. You can blame Zoran Milanovic on the former government now, but this problem has been under way for 25 years. For 25 years, this problem has existed in the Republic of Croatia. So rail transport and we see, according to the indicators, that's what we heard on the board from the distinguished representatives of the ministry that rail transport is falling more and more and more on the road transport level every day. What I was about to say, and I agree with you here, we are not going to achieve this law not only if we do not bring quality strategies ourselves, but if we do not really convince the carriers that it is in the interest of them. So this incentive goes directly to the release of some of the duties they have, however, since they exist on the market, since the price of oil changes every day to them is of course in the interest to translate as much goods as possible into a unit of time. If we don't convince them that it will indeed be for them, that they will have benefits, in this way that they will also be freed from road charges, in the course of the technical examination of the vehicle for road compensation and in other forms. If that were truly worthwhile for them, they would not decide on these measures because it might even be a burden to them. But why should we now overload on rail transport and then or here in the case of water transport? If this way I can get them a bigger profit. So, in addition to general interest, there is an individual interest of each carrier that we should not ignore, and only if, by proper strategy, what you said and the traffic connections then and the correct measures towards entrepreneurs in particular, the transport sector can revive this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21874	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague... Croatia has invested very much in the transport system, very much. And that's what I said, primarily in the construction of road transport infrastructure, that's huge money, very big money she invested in building seaports I said about 650 million euros. Significant money is currently being invested in air traffic, in construction, in the arrangement of airports, however, in this section I was talking about and I would say to the greatest extent that this law is being touched by railways and inland navigation. That's where we made the appointment. As far as internal navigation is concerned, we can have some justification in the fact that river navigation, or inland navigation, died during the Homeland War, and that was the fundamental reason why the traffic on Savi disappeared as the longest waterway in the Republic of Croatia. I said that I resent the former government three things, the first thing is that the most important strategic document that perhaps more than the regional development strategy contributes to the regional development of Croatia and that is the Strategy for Transport Development of Croatia. That document had to go where and where the greater public debate, be more comprehensive, be here too, you were in that term in the Assembly, we did not at all, although several times in the name of the club from this pay phone, I asked that we be able to say something about it as parliamentary representatives. That's not what happened, that's not what we decided. That's one thing. And secondly, I think that we, I think that the opportunity has been missed in that term and they have already had a certain way in a very high phase of preparing documentation for regulating the Sava River's waterway. And here I said that it is now a challenge and a task to this government, and I am sorry that an agency that only had to do with it has been abolished, it is the Agency for Internal Navigation, which is attached to Croatian waters. I don't think that's a good solution just for this reason I've brought up in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21876	Thank you very much. And now the final word will be given by the State Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ms Maja Markovčić Kostelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21877	Thank you very much. Let me first answer questions and then a few words about this strategic framework. So as far as the financial effects of the facts are concerned, we have indicated in the proposal for this law that the implementation of this law directly requires about 2 million kuna in 2017. Since these are estimates based on the use of combined transport by Croatian carriers so far. On the basis of the analysis we will carry out during 2017 and in relation to real needs, a different amount of funding will be provided in 2018, which will be from the state budget through the Energy Efficiency Fund. In fact, we will see how absorbent it will be, and it will depend, of course, on all other measures that we will actually introduce and offer to encourage combined transport. In the case of a question relating to the mass of the vehicle contained in Article 6 it is precisely this law that provides for the exemption as a lex specialis in relation to the general rules on the axle mass of the vehicle to stimulate the use of combined transport. And no, it will not be used, or will not be considered as a special transport and will not be thrown out by the fees provided for in the specific law for special transport. As for these strategic issues that have been mentioned here today as a country that we actually set out 20 years ago to revitalise transport infrastructure and their development we have to be aware of the facts of some things in history we couldn't skip and that everything is looking for its own course. We developed road infrastructure because it was abandoned and inadequate for proper development. The large funds are invested in maritime infrastructure and the sector is beginning to deliver its results. At this point, we need to focus, and this is some strategic definition of this government, and in this direction we will also change the Transport Development Strategy towards the very modes of transport that have been abandoned as components of combined transport so far. Here we are talking, therefore, about rail transport, primarily about freight segments, but also about passenger and sailing inland waterways. The hubs as logistics centres that connect different branches of combined transport will also be stimulated by different measures and will need to be developed. We have a great opportunity to use EU funds, but that is why projects need to be developed and we need to be significantly faster in this. We need to strengthen our absorption capacity. This means that all those legislative and other obstacles that we face in the development of such projects should be eliminated. We need to start talking about digitalising traffic and, in this sense, we need to bring certain forces into the development of digital society. I believe that through this new Government Digitalization Office, we will be able to achieve it. In fact, the traffic of the future is something we really need to talk about today because that future will come to us long before we can expect it. The railway is definitely the strategic priority of this government as well as the internal waterways. The fact is, when we talk about inland waterway traffic, we need to know that we're talking about a multilateral framework, so we're not alone here. It is completely insufficient to develop infrastructure on our part of the waterway when we share it with neighbouring countries. And that's why we just got a frame through... The Commission, through the Danube Commission, a framework through which we can strengthen not only infrastructure projects and then use CEF funds but also these logistical, therefore organisational and operational segments that are equally important for traffic efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that we will also be able to discuss in this House the new strategic framework of transport policy as indeed the vessels of the housewives of the country's economic development at all, and in this context this law is a pebble and should be observed so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21878	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21879	Dear Mrs. Markovcic Kostelac, here's the end where we come from, let me make an appeal here because you're here now. So it's the Podravi Ipsilon, the road from Vrbovac two to Bjelovar and Virovitica. There it is in the construction phase from Vrbovac two to Farkaševec, then it is projected to Bjelovar, to really do everything to make that road come alive as soon as possible. Because all of what you're saying and strategy, and when we talk about the incentive measures for combined transport, it's all going to bear fruit when we have safety on the roads. We have a D2 state road and a DC34 state road that goes from Slatina to Miholjc. Those roads are at a time when people go to work, those roads are really death roads. They are very dangerous, and if in this direction and in strategies there is not thought in accordance with both these laws and other incentive measures, there will be no sufficient security in transport. So this law has a broader dimension than what it is intended to achieve, and I urge you in that direction to do everything possible to speed up these works.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21880	Here will be answered by the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21881	Yes, I thank you for this inquiry. Road safety is a much wider topic. Infrastructure is only one segment that affects road safety. Therefore, we also work together with colleagues from other ministries on a whole package of measures to improve road safety. This includes, of course, raising the level of security and quality of the infrastructure itself. But as I say, it is not one and only prerequisite, and it is precisely by developing combined transport and directing part of traffic to other modes of transport that improves safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21882	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude the debate on this final draft of the law, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21883	The following is the final proposal of the Law on combined freight transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 53. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on combined freight transport. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. Most of the vote 101 for, 26 abstentions and no votes against was passed, the Law on combined freight transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21884	We move to the next point, which is - The Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation on Air Navigation Safety - EUROCONTROL of 13 December 1960, as amended on several occasions and agreed by the Protocol of 27 June 1997, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 49. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure whose reports you received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mrs Maja Markovčić Kostelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21885	Thank you very much. This is therefore one of those ratification laws, a law confirming the international treaty in this case, the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol of 13 December 1960 as amended and supplemented, and would become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, in force above the law, on the basis of the Constitution. The European Aviation Safety Organisation, therefore Eurocontrol was established by the International Convention on Cooperation on Air Safety in 1960, and as I have already said on several occasions as amended by the 1970 Protocols, '78, '81. and the last Protocol of '97. A year. Croatia listed this Protocol in 2002, and it significantly regulates the accession of the European Community, today the EU to the international Convention, and the conditions for entry into force of this Protocol are precisely related to the ratification of this Protocol by all EU Member States, and therefore it is no wonder that the European Commission is actually encouraging Member States to end this ratification process as soon as possible. The purpose of this approach is to assist the European Aviation Safety Organisation in achieving the objectives set out in this Convention, and this is primarily to be one and an effective body responsible for determining the European air traffic management policy. The European Community shall exercise its competences conferred by its Member States in matters covered by the Convention and shall be authorised to be represented and involved in the work of all Eurocontrol bodies and voting rights shall be exercised by the European Community or its Member States, depending on whether the decision concerns the issue referred to in the direct competence of the European Community or within the competence of the Member States. In accordance with the provisions of the Protocol in question, the European Community will apply to the official routes of air navigation, as well as the relevant approach and airport services of air transport in the field of the annual information of its Member States and within the limits of the territorial application of the Treaty establishing the European Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21886	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. Then we move on to the debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21887	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol of 13 December 1960. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, and provides a statement of its compliance with the EU acquis. The European Aviation Safety Organisation Eurocontrol has been established by the International Convention on Cooperation in Air Navigation Security since 13 December 1960. In 1993, the parties to the agreed convention launched a review procedure, which ended in 1997. The objective of the revision was to extend Eurocontrol's competence to all aspects of air traffic management, as well as to establish more effective decision-making mechanisms by strengthening the discipline of its Member States. The Protocol has been amended on several occasions and has been approved by the Protocol of 27 June 1997. On 8 October 2002, 30 countries signed the Protocol in Brussels, including the Republic of Croatia, and the European Community. Since 8 October 2002, 10 other states have signed off on the ground. The Protocol regulates the accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation on the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol and lays down the conditions of that accession, jurisdiction, voting rights and mutual relations. The Republic of Croatia is one of the few remaining signatories that have not yet ratified this Protocol as well as, in this context, invited the competent institutions of the EU Republic of Croatia as a Member State to do the same as before and thereby remove the possibility to initiate further procedures of the European Commission under Article 258 of the Republic of Croatia. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU on the basis of infringements of the law relating to non-compliance with Article 4. The EU Treaty. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is as soon as possible to end this legal procedure, to express its consent to create assumptions that the Protocol is coming into force as soon as possible. As the text of the international treaty cannot be changed or completed at this stage of the procedure, this law is proposed to be discussed and adopted by means of an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Finally, the HDZ Representatives Club will adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation on Air Navigation Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21888	Thank you very much. Since no one else answered, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21889	The following is the final proposal of the Act confirming the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation EUROCONTROL of 13 December 1960, as amended on several occasions and agreed by the Protocol of 27 June 1997, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 49. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Act confirming the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation EUROCONTROL of 13 December 1960, as amended on several occasions and agreed on by the Protocol of 27 June 1997. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 126 for, one abstentioned and no vote against, the Act confirming the Protocol on the accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation EUROCONTROL since 13 December 1960 has been adopted, as amended on several occasions and agreed by the Protocol of 27 June 1997.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21890	And now we're going to move to the next point, which is: - Final bill amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 36 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the material has been delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here, distinguished Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21891	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The adoption of this law is necessary in order to establish a provisional accounting for the use of the water paid at the price of the water service of public water supply, in the period from 1 October 2016 to 1 January 2018, and taking into account that the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of the water economy, which was adopted in accordance with the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament, ceased to apply with the date of 1 October 2016. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, According to the 2009 law, the objective of the law was in the spirit of the principle of reimbursement of costs from water services and, in line with the principle of the pay user and wage polluter, from the EU's roof water directive, the Water Framework Directive, to solve the problem of water loss in the long-term, and to comply with the technically acceptable water loss, as well as to establish telemetric control of the quantities of water affected. In order to adapt the new conditions to water service providers, a transitional period has been left for at least 5 years and that period has been extended until 1 January 2017 and this Regulation has ceased to apply on 1 October 2016. In the same time limits, water charges continued to be charged and charged to end-users and consumers respectively. During the transitional period, water service providers did not achieve the expected training and did not provide funding for the resolution of the loss of water in the network, and the same amount was 46 per cent on average. For these reasons, the application of the water collection model for the use of water by affected quantities of water, rather than by quantities of water delivered, would lead to significant collection of water, while the objective of recovery of losses would not be achieved. The calculation of the compensation for the use of water by the quantities concerned would result in additional financial burden on water service users by contrasting the price of water services between the affected and the delivered water directly burdening the standard of citizens and business and the financial stability of the water delivery service providers. Therefore, this law proposes to establish a temporary way of calculating the compensation for the use of water, retaining the previous or current model of accounting in which the compensation for the use of water is calculated according to the quantity of water delivered to end-users for the period from 1 October 2016 to 1 January 2018, or until conditions are obtained, or until a fairer manner of accounting is proposed with the possible change of the obligors and fundamentals. The re-action of the provisions is proposed for the reason that the proposed method of accounting for water use charges does not change the current method of accounting and thus does not affect the increase in the price of water services for end-users and the same in accordance with the provisions of Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that, for particularly justified reasons, only certain provisions of the law may have a return effect, which is to avoid additional financial burden on end-users or consumers, of course. Furthermore, this law proposes the integration of the use of funds for the use of water and water protection benefits by enabling them to be redistributed to projects co-financed by EU grants and, in line with the commitments made by the EU Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Water Quality Directive for human consumption. In fact, the needs of planned investment are higher in public draining and wastewater treatment, which is about 77 per cent of the investment, and the income from the basic water protection fee is lower than 30 per cent of the income from the water use base, which will be harmonised by the proposed integration of water charges. It also extended the purpose of these fees to finance the construction of connections for end-users of public water supply and public disposal, as well as the financing of the supply of water service equipment. For water-based projects under the Operational Environment Protection Programme 2007-2013 ending on 31.12.2016, 199.1m euros were secured for water-related projects, and from the OPKK 2014-20. 1.05 billion euros. The importance of this provision shows that its consumption is significantly improved by the withdrawal of EU funds in 2016 until 25.11.2016 and the overall implementation of water-based water-based projects financed from EU funds was 806 million kuna, of which 609 EU funds, which is more than 2014, in 2015. In addition, it should be pointed out that the proposed amendments to the law also propose the extension and purpose of funding from the water contribution for construction of buildings, for irrigation as well as for the purposes financed from the water treatment fee, for example. the construction of regulatory and protective water buildings, the implementation of preventive, regular, extraordinary flood treatment and other, with the aim of increasing the efficiency of the use of water compensation funds and the need to achieve a greater functional capacity of the flood defence system and of the primary melioration disposal system, this law also proposed extending the purpose of funding from water management fees, for the construction and maintenance of buildings for detailed melioration disposal, i.e. financing of construction of buildings, urban deforestation. It's accumulators, retentions, coastal channels. Taking into account all of the above, the need to adopt this law, which is in the interest of both citizens and water service suppliers of the Republic of Croatia as well as the total water economy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21892	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? And I'm sorry, we have replicas, we have two replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21893	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's Minister Dobrović talking about water and human consumption. I would just like to draw attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2007 in the case of a complaint from Opatija when the Constitutional Court decided that the exclusion of the household from the water network cannot therefore be used as a means of collecting water debt. So I'm asking you as a minister of what kind of action the ministry intends to do to raise awareness of our citizens, that everyone is aware of their rights, that no one can rule out water because for some time in their lives they are unable to pay bills, so what activities you will take to inform citizens about their rights to constitutional rights. The second thing, which measures you will take, since we know that in the case of a communist from Opatija, an article in the statutes of that society that states that exclusion is possible, so the Constitutional Court has decided to delete the article, which actions you will take as regards other suppliers to verify their regulations, statutes and to delete such similar articles from there in order to comply with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21894	Thank you. Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21895	Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you said that, and we support it, we need to enable water suppliers to be stable and the goal is for every citizen to have drinking water and of course we do not want that burden to be lost in the network, it flows to the end-user to the consumer because it is certain that, with this economic price, the water should be guided and the social elements that our fellow citizens have water and that they have enough at all times to be eligible for their home budget. At the moment part of the public affairs of the Croatian Waters wants to be transferred when it comes to public water disposal to local self-government units, talks are being held that, with the communal compensation of the solutions, they also send to the payments of the unit of local self-government. I know that has caused a lot of disfavor with the head of the municipality many have come to me and are afraid that they do not have the capacity to do so, it is one thing, that they do not have a harmonised square of ownership, identical to that of the municipal fee between the units of local self-government and Croatian waters. So I ask you what you plan to do in this direction because there was an initiative to postpone this measure for 2018 since we have local elections in 2017. And also if you have the opportunity to answer what with those water suppliers that haven't solved the property on the water supply sites. It specifically draws in the Sikirevci, which is also supplied by the Vinkovci water pipeline, the Vukovar-Srijem County areas and part of the Slavonski Brod waterway, the Brod-Posavina County. Property law has not been settled and the locals of the Sikirevci municipality and neighbouring municipalities are rightly asked when it will be regulated and whether they will have certain revenues based on it to strengthen their budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21896	Thank you. So the committee's reporters won't take the floor? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia's esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović, he's not here, he's losing his right to this. Next on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives will speak the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21897	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are facing amendments to the Water Economy Financing Act, which among other things determine water prices for end-users. However, given that this issue is one of the key and strategic issues of the Republic of Croatia for its future, I would like to look a little closer to the wider context of the water economy. In fact, the Water Economy Financing Act is projected to be charged according to the affected, meaning taken at the source of water quantities rather than by the quantities delivered. However, it was also left at the time for water service providers to implement measures to tackle losses in the network to make them acceptable. But they didn't do it. In view of this, the Parliament has adopted a postponement of the application of this law because it is clear that its application would significantly increase water prices for end-users. Now this application of the law wants to be delayed again, this time until 1.1.2018 and it is therefore very important to tell citizens that this law represents a real time bomb for their standard. So the losses in the water network are currently around 50% of the water affected, which means that for the same amount of end-user accounts should be increased by the application of this law as of 1.1.2018. If that happens, and we're voting right now that it's going to happen, it means that already these legal changes will undo all the positive effects of these modest pay increases we've had in the last two years. So, in fact, this law should not be applied in any way and especially not before water distributors solve the problem of water loss in their systems. It is very important to note the responsibility of public companies which have not acted on the necessary recommendations of public companies, which in Croatia represent a litter of art, which are harassing people in different ways by forcing them not to join the network even though they have wells, or if they have some kind of local water supply, for example in villages that do not do enough when floods occur in some area while at the same time having such conditions of work as all employees in Croatia would envy, they have huge salaries, and they are using numerous benefits, they are doing losses and they never correspond to anyone for anything because they are politically set up and therefore do not have an obligation to the citizens. So it's important to see how we're already paying for water right now. Here I have brought my personal water bill of 200 kuna and the price of water alone is 80 kuna. So the price of water is 80 kuna, and the rest are different fees of 120 kuna, which means that 60% of this bill is compensation and only 40% of the water that I have spent personally. By applying this law from 1.1.2018, the share of water spent will likely drop to 20% and 80% of the bill will pay for the water we did not spend. I must also point out that the price of water is criminally expensive. According to water wealth, Croatia is third or fifth depending on the estimates of countries in Europe and we had a price of water ranging from 14.90 kuna per cubic metre to 15.30 kuna. The euro is estimated at around 2 euros. So 1.98 to 2.3 euros. At the same time, the price of water in Madrid is 1 euro cubic metre, and in stores is cheaper by about 25%. The directors are lower in Madrid by 10% and the average salary there is 11 200 kuna. In Milan, Italy, a cubic meter of water costs 3.20 kuna, meaning approximately five times lower than in Croatia, the directors are generally lower by about 17% and the salary is 12 800 kuna. In London, the directors are lower than in Croatia by about 13% and the salaries are averaged at 18 220 kuna. So you tell us now, tell the citizens how it's possible that with such water wealth and a standard as we have, we have such prices of water? Well, we're going to pay the water even more expensive, but we're already paying it more than milk, and we're very likely to pay it more than gas soon. And now this law allows water prices to rise by 50%. If you don't know the legislator, I think it's important to know the citizens. Here we go, very simply here in front of the Parliament is a store of 1.5 liters of water costing 7 kuna. In Slovenia, a liter of water costs, 1.5 liters of water 1.10 kuna or 15 cents. Obviously, it's either incompetence or robbery, and it's probably a combination of both. It is also important to note that our neighbours are Slovenians, and they are not far from here, perhaps half an hour by car, passed the law constitutionally, they have installed the Constitution here recently that water is public good and that water cannot therefore be on the market, that only water can only be managed by the state and in a way that is nonprofit. So here's the article of the 70th Slovenian Constitution. And what are we doing? We give water to concessions and allow tycoons to earn abnormal profits while citizens increase water bills. In 2015, Croatia gave 29 concessions for water at which the concessionaires earned about 2 billion kuna, 2 billion kunas I repeat, and the Croatian state was revenueing from 12 million kunas. So we've sold a fortune worth 2 billion kunas or someone's income for 12 million kunas. And, of course, the question must be asked to whom it pleases. How is it possible, for example, that the water of Jamnica draws 70 million litres of water and that the amount of water is paid by 12000 kuna, while the same amount of water is charged to Croatian citizens over a million kuna. Of course, this subject could be further elaborated on who recently gave the water to the Czechs of Studenac, etc. But here I think that you have realized that giving water to a concession is particularly wrong in the light of the Slovenian amendments to the Constitution and that it further objectes to this increase in water provided for by the forthcoming amendments to the law. Also, as my colleague Sincic said, I must mention this at this time that almost all producers, i.e. water distributors, are engaged in illegal measures of forced collection, i.e. excludeing people from water by breaking Articles 3 and 21. A constitution that says that Croatia is a social state and, among other things, that every man has the right to live. A man without water will die within one to two days, and therefore measures are being taken in Croatia to shut down water, as a rule for those citizens who are socially at risk. In 2007, the Constitutional Court ruled, the Constitutional Court, that water mining is unconstitutional. So people's lives are in danger. In 2009 the European Directive 2003 was adopted. 54ES, which clearly says that not only is water excluded, but it is prohibited to switch off electricity and gas. So basic directors. Here's the clear one. In this context, each Member State defines the concept of threatened customers that can relate to energy poverty and, inter alia, I stress the ban on the exclusion of electricity and gas by such customers in critical times. So, in times of economic crisis, or recession. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made clear by its 2015 regulation that it is prohibited to unplug the water of users of guaranteed minimum benefits and users of personal disability. Last year, I saw with my own eyes a motionless man with no water. So tell me, Mr. Minister, the foundation of which you rule out water and leave people at risk to their health, that only their right to life is threatened. All the answer that you've offered us so far on these questions is here's exactly what we have ahead of us right now, which is that it's going to increase the prices of water. That's all you know. Instead of protecting citizens and providing them with water as a public good, you plan to lower water prices by at least 30% in 12 months to increase water prices by 30 to 50%, perhaps by more. Therefore, this delay should not only be accepted, but this whole measure should be abolished and other ways of calculating water consumption should be introduced so that it does not therefore come to the status so that only wealthy citizens can use it, which again shows the tendency that in Croatia the government does not care about the interests of citizens, but everything must be paid. And only one who will have money, and you know who it is, a little narrow elite at the top of the social pyramid, only they will be able to afford some things from health, education. So here's what we see now and from the water itself without which there is no life. If this law is implemented, and therefore it says in the amendments that I want to warn citizens that they will no longer be able to pay for water, that their network distributors will continue to unplug them and continue to carry out the tasks and the blockades will continue to destroy their standard. In this sense, I recommend that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia digs up a well in front of the house as soon as possible or installs a rainwater collection filter because in the future it is obvious that no one will be able to drink any more water from Croatian sources without paying it very expensively, and it seems to me that in the end they will pay it not only to the state but in fact to tycoons among which a significant part of them will be from abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21898	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Ivan Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21899	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of Bunjac you were talking about tycoons who sell water expensively. I'm just reading an article about how the boss has exhausted too much water through the Jamnica, so it would be nice to mention how the boss got to Jamnica at all. Namely, in those magical times of conversion and privatisation after the first local elections in '93. Branko Miksa was the mayor of Zagreb, and Mr Vuljanic was the mayor of Zagreb County at the time was also called Jamnica since it belonged to Zagreb County, the directive must be given to the boss. Mr Vuljanić refused to do so. What's going on? The county, Zagreb County, connects with the City of Zagreb, Mr. Miksha solves the matter, the boss gets Jamnica '95. When I was six months old, it was a takeover assembly if I wasn't wrong. After that, late '95. again new elections, there was also the Zagreb crisis culminated, returned to the map of the county, but now it is not Zagreb County, but Zagreb County as it is today and that is what happened in our past and how individuals acquired property. Otherwise, if it's important Mr. Miksha works in Agrokor today, he accidentally ate, if it's important Mr. Vuljanic was on the coalition list One option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21900	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21901	Yes, it is, in fact, about how it was possible in Croatia to buy companies without a single kuna in their pocket. We have now seen that the law was passed last Friday that the origin of the property will not be questioned, so such cases will not be investigated. However, as far as this particular case of Jamnica is concerned, it is that someone pays a cubic meter of water of 16 limes, and as I have already said, the citizens are paying 15 kuna. So someone's paying 16 lips, and the citizens are 15 kunas, and it's actually supposed to be the other way around. It should be that the concessionaire pays a higher amount than the one charged to the citizens. You now calculate yourself, if Jamnica draws 270 million gallons of water annually and if the price of a liter of water is in the store of five kunas and you now calculate what it is. That's about a billion and 300 million kuna, and the cost is 16 lip per cubic metre. So basically a liter of water is sold for incriminating. And someone allowed it, and it allows one who now wants to increase the prices of water to citizens, not right now, but since 1.1.2018, and it shows a very bad way of management that most importantly shows the trend of expansion. Because I repeat once again, this year we have lost the source of the water of Studenac and new concessionaries have appeared who would like to take our water sources, in any case we should prevent it as soon as possible, and I'm afraid it won't be possible just because the concessions have been issued for 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21902	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21903	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I agree with you that it is not fair to exclude people from the water supply network because water is necessary for life. But do you know that in the Republic of Croatia there are people who want to get out of the water supply network, and they can't do that? In the Municipality of Voćin, people drink medically incorrect water that they pay neatly, pay and compensation for maintaining the system. They have taken a number of measures since the petition, all the authorities have informed the issue, but nothing has happened yet. Here is the minister, let him hear, of course at least the minister is responsible for this situation right now, but let the inquiry see what's going on in Voćin Municipality. I say people drink that water, I saw the school sign, the water isn't for drinking. Watch out, at the elementary school that's connected to that system. And that's one absurd thing that exists with us. So on the one hand, people who can't pay because they're excluded, and on the other hand people who want to pay for the right water, and they can't do that. If it's excluded from the system again, it's no use, because they need healthy and proper water. So it's a lot of work for the minister to do a lot of things that are illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21904	Thank you. My colleague Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21905	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor. So it goes with the trace of this violence that I mentioned earlier, so the exclusion of water, but people are forced to connect to the water system, I don't know about the Voćin case, but I know about the village of Hlapici in Međimurje County, which has its own water line where, by all measures, the Public Health Office is that water is more quality and, of course, cheaper than the one offered by the network distributor. However, they are simply forced to connect to that water and, most importantly, the quality of water means that it is weak, and control is very weak. So, you don't actually have clear parameters where a citizen can find out what kind of water he drinks than if he wants to know then he has to pay himself at the Public Health Institute for testing water according to my knowledge of more than 200 kuna and there's a fact that citizens are limited by their rights in a way that is done by a monopoly, that there's no choice in what it's called taking water, but it's put into one system, and then when it's put in place when he no longer has any alternative, then those prices increase then simply the citizen has no choice anymore, and in that way they're actually breaking and the market principles of price. So all these questions should be answered legally, and the measures should go in the sense that the citizen who does not want to be must not be the beneficiary of the water network but can take the water in the way he considers most appropriate to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21906	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to report for the replica, but some of the things that come out here just aren't like that. First and foremost, I speak as mayor of the city who had to invest a lot in water supply. Today we still have to invest, we have problems, we also have a water supply in our area. And if I was happy when that charge room was made because there works 80 people who regularly get their salary, the company works, pays all taxes and contributions and can't just be seen in one element, in one segment such activity. But I came forward for another reason, the price of water in Croatia from the tap, which is 90% of the units of local self-government, and we are very rare in this case in the world costs an average of one lip in which it is included in both disposal and all these taxes that go on it. One cubic of water is 10 kuna per drain on average with all these elements being upgraded. So that's true. One liter of drinking water in Croatia from the official water line costs 1 lip with draining. And many citizens would like to have a water line, but they haven't because they haven't been able to build it yet. And I have a whole series of settlements that unfortunately don't have water lines yet and people are looking for water. And as for your idea of digging a well, I don't know if you've tried to dig a well, whether you've tried to count on how much digging a well costs, whether you've tried to figure out how much maintenance it costs, and how you can keep that water healthy for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21908	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21909	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague, I don't know what you're talking about, namely, humanity has lived for several million years without therefore Croatian waters, so I don't know how they would die if they didn't have that company. It's just that the price of water is too expensive and that if someone can't pay it then they have to find some other way to get to that water. It is amazing to me that in Croatia water is not publicly good in a way that you can now get drunk of water if you are thirsty without paying. So sometimes in all places back in the days of the Roman Empire there were some kind of public taps, there were public bathrooms, I don't know, so people could use water without paying, and that's gone today. Today, when people get out of the water, they just don't have any water to take. He has to take it to the store, and how to take it to the store if he couldn't even pay that bill for which you big that was very cheap. It's just too expensive for people. The water does not fit, the price of water does not meet the standard of Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens do not have 200, 300 or how many kunas to pay water because they survive many of them, I do not know with social aid, with minimals and it is simply too high. But it's also too high the price of gas, it's too high the price of electricity, you know it all well, but you're not looking for solutions to lower those prices, but you keep looking for ways to increase that price. And this same thing now that the electricity price is down, it's supposed to decrease by 10 kuna, we'll see what it looks like next year, but I'm almost convinced that these prices are going to rise. And it's time to stop at that once.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21910	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Franjo Lucic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to say a few words about this proposed law. But I'm not going to speak to my predecessor, Bunjca, because indeed as long-time mayor of the town of Pleternica, and here's my colleague, as well as the current mayor of one city, I would not agree with that rhetoric, especially as you speak negatively about this particular thing today because it's not so black, it's not that there's nothing going on and there's no crime. But in order for more to be done, of course, yes, but I will certainly talk about it a little later in my discussion. We are witnessing that this Water Economy Financing Act has been applicable since 1 January 2010 but that there have been constant and troubles and that it has been realized that certain things should be changed especially when it comes to compensation and therefore all that matters which concerns the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Croatian Waters. In any case, it is intended to be done for the benefit of citizens and certainly neither this law nor other laws are passed on to the benefit of citizens. So who would do that in today's day? Croatian waters with the ministry want to do everything with this compensation around the affected and delivered water that is precisely in the shortest period of time, we are aware that the law and time that has been set aside are not certain works made by distributors so that and how they can apply this law in the procedure at the very source and thus charge water. We are also aware that our distributors have not been able to raise or borrow so far and have waited for Croatia to enter the EU and that in this way we are really trying to secure EU funds that are irrevocable, which is a minimum interest credit. That's why I'm aware and right in my middle in which I come to Požega-Slavon County, our distributor has just failed to provide funds or to build or fix those pipelines where there are losses on average 50%. We are aware that other major cities, for example, Zagreb, have far greater losses. And it's not a small job, and it's my opinion that in these years until 1.1.2018 it won't be possible to apply this law because in that case, if we went to the water operation at the source itself, really, then the citizens would be damaged because someone would have to pay for it. However, it is certainly also the interest of the Ministry of Water to secure the funds, because today these losses of both the water and the Croatian water could achieve far higher revenues or reduce those costs that distributors themselves have. That's why I want to go here today and say that the application of this law will not go to the harm of citizens and that it will certainly be done everything and find some other solutions. I would like to say a few words because indeed, in Croatian waters, huge jobs are being done today in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the income from water contribution and water management fees is used according to the principles of solidarity and championships in needs in the national area of the Republic of Croatia and the funds collected are intended for the construction and maintenance of water-owned water-building buildings operated by Croatia and for the implementation of the prevention of regular and extraordinary flood defences, including the work of regular water maintenance in the jurisdiction of Croatian waters. One thing I might say is how complex it is and why we don't actually have a system of flood defenses today and we certainly have income, but above all, the need for flood protection is that in Croatia we have a length of water flow that exceeds 60 thousand kilometers. So the very appearance of this 60,000-km figure requires us to simply face it and find out what the problem is and that it is not possible to solve it in a short period of time. Further, for the purpose of defence against floods, more than 4 thousand kilometers of hydrotechnical embankments have been built to allow different levels of protection from floods. Since I come from the county, which is also at risk with weather disasters and in 2014, we had a huge flood of large scales. The fact is that in the past time period we did not have the need for protection on certain rivers, but because of these climate change, there was a need to build exactly protective channels, so here I will also say thanks to Croatian waters for putting the construction of a flood and flood protection in the town of Plekrenica in the length of 4 kilometers and where we will therefore address the issue of flood defence. Of course, as I said earlier in this past time period, there was no need on that stock except for the Pleternica to build protection channels, but as I said, climate change happened and today we simply have to build on certain shares and not only the embankments, but we have to build and dams. So we will also build a big dam that will completely solve the flood defense and also build all of these dams that were built in Croatia as retentions and as accumulators, but it will be done, but it will also be applied to be accumulators that will have a huge amount of water to protect a given area at a given time, but most of all we in Požega-Slavon County want to build a hydropower plant and we have already built one in the City of Pleklernica which has proved to be of great importance and value for the city itself and I am sure that on certain waterways, and so far we have already built several dams, we plan to build another 6.7 dams but not only in the City of Pleclernica but also plans others in Croatia. And that is something that is very important because this energy that is obtained through hydro plants is indeed recommended today by the EU, and we will certainly have the obligation to build it for that type of production, but I say the very conditions that we have in the Republic of Croatia are imposed on us that maybe the units of local self-government are far more invested in such projects. What I would also like to say is that so far it has been built in the Republic of Croatia 58 multi-purpose volume accumulations of more than one billion cubic metres, 43 mountain retention and 5 low retentions on the Sava, Lonjsko polje, Wet polje, Kučina, Zelenik and Jantak total volume greater than one and a half billion cubic metres. So here's the construction of these exactly accumulations that tells us that we've already done everything in certain cities to protect ourselves from the worst, from the floods themselves. And we also have a channel network that makes up both laden and connected lateral channels that you can also see in your environments. But precisely, these resources that are being allocated today are aware that they are insufficient and that we simply cannot control their arrangement fully with these means. And we do have a lot of abandoned channels today, no matter what we've been cleaning up in the past. However, editing and cleaning such channels requires retail daily maintenance. When we look at today and the incomes of Croatian waters that are somewhere around 3 and a half billion, perhaps we can say and maybe individuals think they are huge funds. At the same time, however, we also know that the cost, which is also large, includes a lot of funds that are currently being used to defend against floods. So the revenue from the water compensation is given annually in revenues of around 2 billion and 200 million kuna. I would also like to say a few words, and this is particularly important for all of us in the Republic of Croatia because of those floods we had, and this is because of the lack of funds that we did not build certain protections, we can say that the flood that was on the Sava River and in Racinovac and in Rajje’s village are indeed floods that destroyed the local population and destroyed the future of people. To build far more high-quality defense systems, these compensation funds are not enough. Croatia's entry into the EU has also created the conditions for Croatia to withdraw funds both from the non-refundable and from the minimum interest credit rate. And in this way we will provide the Republic of Croatia with a more peaceful future when it comes to flood protection and, of course, the future of the population that is near the rivers. We only need 4 and a half billion to build new buildings by 2021, and by 2038, we need no less than 12.8 billion. But as I have said before, climate change has just caused exactly and protection where it has been so far gone and probably this means will be needed in a far greater amount. What Croatia's waters have provided just on loan to CEB 40m euros in loans for these purposes, and with, pardon 40m euros in loans received with minimum interest Croatian water will provide an additional 40m euros in water, so 80m kuna is going to protect the defence against floods, which is certainly for every praise. Of course, building this together requires one great energy, but first of all, we should all get involved with well-intentioned suggestions and we should not speak from word to word about negative things, and especially not for those things that do not exist at all and certain problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21912	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lucic, you mentioned this, and I must refer to the role of the local self-government unit in the water economy problem, i.e. primarily water distribution and draining. In particular, since the burden is mainly on the distribution and disposal of drinking water and wastewater on the load of units of local self-government, it is necessary to strengthen the financial capacity of those to worry about how the quality of water that comes into the household would be as good as it would be to ensure smooth water treatment. So from the households and its purification. There is also a problem with the fact that, with the communal fee, compensation for water treatment is charged. The communal fee as a form of remuneration will not be able to exist for much longer. Therefore, tax reforms will also go into the form of tax that will be paid because it is a matter of harmonisation with the EU by calling into question again the way in which this fee will be charged, i.e. how it will be charged by local self-government units. Also, all in the direction of strengthening the fiscal capacity of local self-government units to take care of this problem, we have also received on the benches of the proposal for an amendment of the HNS Club, which says that, or which suggests that the collected water contribution or water treatment fee remains a significantly higher percentage to local self-government units. This is the direction in which we should think, especially since you yourself said that since you come from local self-government, you were mayor, since the burden of this is mostly on local self-government units, not in the central state, or not on Croatian waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21914	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21915	I agree with my colleague Hajdukovic that the local self-government unit should be disbursed as much as possible. But we are aware that this fee, in fact, that we are talking about, should be far greater, but we are aware that this and the compensation are not being paid as it should be, and since we have been collecting during the past period of time a certain amount of water compensation, we are witnessing that it is precisely a great struggle with the public is indeed citizens in a difficult situation. And then they ask a lot of questions, and why this channel hasn't been cleaned up, that channel, and basically there's not enough funding, and I'm saying there's a lot of irregular payment, and that's why we've both got channels and certain problems created, that's why. But I certainly think that by this very means that I talked about earlier, about the EU funds will certainly bear most of the burden of Croatian water because I am sure that the units of local and regional self-government as far as it is concerned that certain channels would and would be transferred to a local and regional self-government unit in fact would lead to a general collapse of non-functioning of these channels because we have just witnessed that in certain cities and municipalities it is so said that, because of the difficulties in life in general, people do not pay, and in fact these channels would not be maintained at all, and it would be even more chaos than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21916	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21917	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, you were talking about the use of EU funds, this law in the extreme case of changes going in that direction so that those funds could be used for that part, you were also talking about this part of the influence of local self-government and water supply and network development, and so on about the losses in networks, it seems to me that somewhere around 50% of the average losses are in the Republic of Croatia and indeed this prolongat is not charged by the affected but by the sold water absolutely goes to the benefit of both citizens and of course the local distributors who are there. I'll be here a little bit maybe, you were talking about the Pleternica, I'm going to draw up some more of the problems that we meet in Croatia in some other areas. Here you can see one example which is the endemic example in Croatia, namely the separation of water and sewage from municipal and other activities, all of which in Croatia have almost succeeded, there was no problem, but there is one case that one of the co-owners has a 3% stake in the ownership of the Komunal company Križevci and it blocks. And all that ends up in court together, you get a first-degree sentence, then ends up in the High Commercial Court, and then we wait two years for the High Commercial Court to pass a sentence. But in those two, three years we have been waiting neatly we pay all these contributions to Croatian waters, but from Croatian waters because we haven't divided the company we haven't been able to get a single kuna in three years back of returning the money to what we even paid. So there is a mass of these problems, obviously, that there will be little more of these laws to be developed and some things to be solved because these situations are in fact being challenged by the realisation of these European projects. And in the part that we talked about yesterday at the new Public Procurement Act and to some other laws, here are the laws related to Croatian waters, as well as the ineffectiveness of certain institutions in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21918	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21919	I agree with my colleague that there are problems all over Croatia, but above all we here in the Croatian Parliament and our respective ministries must change the laws. Here was the Public Procurement Act but first of all we know that individual and natural persons, but certainly here is a municipality that simply tried to block and you lost two to three years. We certainly new laws that need to be improved, especially when it comes to strategic investment, cannot happen to some natural person or legal person or here as a unit of local self-government block such a project that is of paramount importance to all the population. Therefore, by supplementing the Law on Exclusion, by supplementing the Law on Guaranteeing that certain projects must go, and someone whether it is a unit of local self-government, whether it is a legal person, whether it is a natural person, whether he solves his problems by means of a judicial means and seeking his own compensation, and the court expert will certainly assess what damage it is. Let a special one account be paid to him, but the work simply must not be put up with, and they must be carried out. However, it certainly is necessary to change the laws and everything that we have done in recent years has proved not enough, that we still have such problems on the ground, because here we simply see it from this example of yours, but here I hope that right here, our minister hears this all together and hears it, but surely he knows that he will do everything with his influence with the other ministry to simply do these jobs and certain projects far faster build up, not to wait because of certain obstacles.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21920	Thank you very much. Next replica representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21921	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you spoke in your debate about the problems of cleaning the canals and resources that Croatian water also has for this purpose and that these funds are mostly insufficient to clean all channels. Now, according to some of the information I have, the way these canals are being cleaned may be the one that was done tens of years ago and over, and these canals are mostly grown with some wood mass, so a good part of that wood mass is either lit or buried in cleaning these canals. In a conversation with some entrepreneurs dealing with the collection of bio-mass for the operation of power plants and those collecting wood for the production of splinter, they say a good part of that wood mass could be used. Well, my replica is part of it and the proposal is for the minister because it is in the ministry and energy and environmental protection and the water economy, to see how Croatia can lead instead of cleaning these canals only cost, to try one part of that wood mass actually sell when cleaning these canals, so that there is still income for cleaning and other then channels where there is not so much wood mass or not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21922	Thank you very much, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21923	My colleague, you have indeed set the line right, and I have also been president of the Committee on Agriculture during the SDP and with Minister Jakovina several times bile talk about it, but nothing has yielded fruit. Well, I'm asking you right now, Minister, and what my colleague was saying is true. That contractor who gets a contraction on certain waterways, I have to say, you know what they do with that mass? They're burying her in the ground. And you know why? Because he can't sell that mass to anyone. Croatian forests are required by law to take care of that mass. They say we don't care what they want. Or I don't know any other sort of thing. We also have wood growers that have biogas plants. Well, people asked to untie it, and they can't give it to him, and this one, if any of those peasants out there, can't even tell him: "Here, drive it, 'cause there's a law that simply fits the one who's a contractor. And of course the police come and then make records. So, I beg you, settle it very simply, that one or, don't just give it to the Woods, excuse me if I told the Waters, don't give it to the Woods because they don't want to master it. Give some simpler law, come up with, get ready as soon as possible. Today we have a lot of people dealing with bio-mass. Let's take advantage of it, not if it rots by the river there, at worst I tell you, man, so that he who does the work doesn't have a problem he burys it in the ground, no one sees it. Here's what you're doing. That's the truth, I'm telling you from the field. But it's the law that can't be applied differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21924	Thank you very much. Another replica of your exposure. Dear representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21925	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Lucic, at one point you mentioned climate change. It was just yesterday that my town, the city of Vodice, was the first to start in Croatia with the implementation of the Coastal Region Management Plan for the rise of water levels caused by climate change. It's something I'll eventually have to run other towns and municipalities along the coast and it's a lot of work, we're just starting with it, but it requires a lot of resources and a lot of time. We know how much trouble we've all had, and so does the city of Vodice, related to the many rainfalls. We have not yet started to deal with these problems, and the construction of water buildings, large drain systems, is all something that is tasked and standing on Croatian waters. Here, my appeal for you to get a better teaming up as soon as possible, to start calling the competitions and allowing cities and municipalities to solve these problems, or to think about a model like we have with some other incomes, to transfer some of the funds directly to cities and municipalities, and then to work it out with those funds collected in our area. For example. More than 2 million kunas are collected annually in the area of the town of Vodice. If only part of the funds were direct income and remained in our budget, we would have opened the competition long ago and done that part of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21926	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21927	I agree, fellow Members, that climate change has just done a lot of things, and I was saying that here and in my middle in the continental part of certain shares, we didn't need defensive dikes, but it turns out that in 2014 alone, we had 180 million damages in Požega-Slavon County, and these are huge amounts, and now we're going to solve this particular problem with this dam. Just 10, 15 years ago, I didn't hear and I didn't know and it wasn't noticed that there were so many rainwaters, so 180 liters of even 200, I don't know, Rijeka, you, and of course here you are now in this problem, and so when I talk about those channels that we're saying by 2021, 4.5 billion, a total of 13 billion, these funds will be as time goes by and because of these climate change, they're even more insufficient, but here's thank God by entering and Croatia in the European Union we'll have grants, but we'll also be able to get better funds or loans at lower interest. We're simply going to have to commit to that because I'm saying, here you are, just the kind of problems that cause great material damage and where, directly through such rainfalls, local people are threatened both legally and physically. In any case Croatian waters do a good job, they should be supported but we must act faster, we must secure these funds as soon as possible because we do not have time. The damage is huge, and we saw it right from this previous period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21928	Thank you very much. We move on to the debate on behalf of the club HNS and HSU, the esteemed representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21929	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ministers, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Part of these amendments to the law can be supported, and they relate to the very reasons for points 1 and 2, meaning the establishment of a temporary accounting for the use of water. Simply in the explanation is very clearly defined and we are aware of both the situation and the circumstances. Under point 2, it also means integration of purpose. Given the needs and needs of Croatian waters, and I would say first and foremost to the needs of Croatian citizens, however, under points 3 and 4 of the HNS club cannot support these changes, and here I will explain why. In fact, it was always a dilemma about who and how to pay for the water involved, like the water delivered. And it's a good thing that regulations are settled and defined differently. In fact, we are aware of the situation with public water service suppliers, practically 50, 55% I think it's an average in the Republic of Croatia where there are existing losses. Although I say this part of the amendments to the law to prolong the bill by 1 January 2018 is to support it, I am not sure that and then we will not be forced to go to the prolongation of that deadline because I am afraid that at such a pace, with such weak financial opportunities and the capacity of the supplier of the water services of the utility companies, we will not rise further from perhaps 5% to 7% of the improvement in these water losses. It certainly is not good that end-users as citizens, and I don't think under the Constitution they can pay for something they don't get, that they can't get that burden on them. Of course it will be your task and Croatian waters to try an adequate solution in those two years. As far as the integration of purposes is concerned, the fees for using water, water protection fees, we can absolutely support it. In the context of time and space as regards the use of these funds, I agree, and this data certainly says what the current needs are for the water supply itself to be here at a relatively good level, but as for the treatment of wastewater and sewage, the fecal disposals are practically lagging behind and below the real standards not only of transition countries but also of others. There is certainly a need to make additional efforts and I believe that these changes will speed up somewhat. Now of two fees, a water contribution and a water treatment fee that we certainly can't support. We've also given the HNS and HSU an amendment that we're trying to correct. We were also trying to do the same during the former government and those governments before that simply no minister has found it appropriate to consider, in more detail to consider our demands, so here we are giving you an examination in the hope that you will accept, consider, or simply in the spirit of these last tax changes of tax laws, let us call it tax reform that you will see and that these water compensations that should certainly be made a full revision because one part of both businessmen and citizens call them parafiscal duties, may have some elements, I would disagree. These funds have their own purpose, their own justification, but I think that the schedule of these funds to be collected should be distributed or located in a completely different, more acceptable way, and all by the model of which the Directive also speaks, the user pays. It should also be that one who pays something to get something for it. As for the water contribution, I withdraw analogy with the Law on the municipal economy that defines the municipal contribution, so it's paid for building a solid facility, it's paid for the same pay base, the spatial cubic meter. I do not see why some of these funds are analoguely used for the use of utility funds, which can be used to make part of these funds available to the local self-government unit and to be used on the basis of the means of purpose. Furthermore, as regards the water compensation for water management, you will probably have it in the following year if you respect the amendments or do not respect them, you will have certain new amendments to the law simply because the intensity of the Tax Law speaks about the Minister of Finance not to be paid on one property and the same property of several taxes. The water treatment fee is currently paid for the same real estate now paid for by the municipal fee, and the real estate tax will be paid. Of course, I am not in favour of double taxation of real estate, but in the following year we will still have a certain dilemma from 2018, the doubt primarily you as a resorient ministry. And when it is looked at that the water tax is paid on all real estate, whether it will be paid on undeveloped building land as recommended or in the Real estate tax law, and whether it will be paid as it used to be on agricultural land. Why did I bring up the water? In the bill of law, you state what I cannot agree with, I have made it clear to the board. The purpose of the water contribution is to build irrigation buildings. I don't know what, where you found in this proposal a foothold for it. When you have very clear in the existing Water Economy Financing Act, point 6. Irrigation fee. This Regulation shall enter The irrigation fee shall be paid on agricultural land irrigated from irrigation buildings owned by units of local self-government. Namely, the user pays. Principle of the directive, principle of tax policy. I don't see why citizens who don't have agricultural land, who build a house in the urban middle, would pay for the construction of a irrigation system in rural areas for the purpose of agriculture. I don't see why. I understand that the resources from the water fee are generally tax policy that the funds are collected in solidarity and that not all resources can be exactly where they are collected, that they are spent there. And I'm not into it. There are developed, more developed, less developed regions. I also received an explanation from the previous government and from this former one, so imagine how much only with the basis of the water treatment fee will the city of Zagreb receive. Well, why not? But if he gets the funds, he gets the obligation to use those funds on purpose. According to the programmes, according to one that needs to be aligned with Croatian waters. According to the Water Act, according to the Water Economy Financing Act. I don't see why not. Furthermore, in the existing law I also got the answer: Yes, from the water contribution units local self-government gets 8 percent. Yeah, right. Well, I mean, I don't mean to be awkward, but take that 8 percent. Do not help us in this way to help the local self - administration because these 8 percent are more than embarrassing. 5% we get at the bar, local self-government, to collect water compensation plus administrative costs. Along with communal compensation, respected ministers, ma'am, those aren't enough funds. That's not enough. The minimum cost, the net cost to say so, is somewhere between 7.5 to 8 percent. And not to mention the gross salary where we have an employee who only has to deal with it. So my proposal is that this part of the amendment as regards, unless you accept the amendment, we cannot support the law. This part of the amendments relating to the integration of the purpose of water use charges, water protection fees and the prolonging of the deadlines can absolutely be supported. However, be aware that in the coming year, the basis of the concept of tax policies that are suggested by these mini tax reforms, you will have to do a more comprehensive amendment to the Water Economy Fund Act, the Water Act, because it is not clearly defined in the Water Act or perhaps insufficiently read which waterways are in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, the regional self-government, I do not think any of what is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Waters. You're going to say that it's very clear, but we managed at least I don't know, here we can, a lot of colleagues and colleagues have from the bar, if anyone can know exactly which waterways we're talking about. I don't think so. You need, if not otherwise, the Croatian waters have a water flow register, to make it clear to anyone in whose jurisdiction it is. As regards the Croatian waters themselves as a city-owned company, we have proposed that part of the water contribution is also set up by 30 percent and part of the water-editing fee, i.e. to leave to local self-government units. I believe that you will have the basis and long-term experience and practice, and I believe that you will have the opportunity to see for yourself the business, rationality, rationality, rationality of management within Croatian waters, that you will realize that it will not be any impact on the budgets of Croatian Waters. However, citizens will get a better, better service. If so, it is only 30 percent of these funds and that we can react in a timely manner. We're aware of the circumstances, we're aware of climate change. From today to tomorrow, we need to react. And the citizens expect it from us. They expect you too, Mr. Minister, because, of course, citizens who swim especially in the area where we have a lot of water streams, where practically within an hour, two hundred-year-old waters exceed, you're practically swimming. Economic facilities, courtyards, houses. I can't because I'm not irresponsible enough to send them to you or to Croatian waters. I try to find a way to react and how to prevent or prevent it. I believe you'll appreciate our thoughts. In the hope that you will accept the amendments of the HNS and HSU Club, and I also see that by listening to the debate of colleagues and colleagues that there is reflection in this direction if amendments are accepted, we are ready to support these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21930	Since we have a lot of replicas, I think we'll do the replicas at 15.00 hours together with the debate on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. It's 13:30. Here we continue the afternoon session with the replicas. The first is Mr Batinic's presentation, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21932	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Batinic. Although some time has passed since your debate you have raised one very important question, which is the relationship between tax and compensation. As we can see in this proposal of the law, there is a calculation of the water treatment fee, there is a rule on the basis of which the compensation is arranged and is related to the municipal fee. Here while Minister Maric defended tax reform, he said he would replace the utility tax. We can't possibly be true. We can cancel the communal fee, we can bring in real estate taxes, but it has nothing to do with each other. The truth in the future is likely to have a problem with the water treatment fee. You have rightly mentioned why someone pays this fee because when we talk about fees, we always expect some sort of counter-service as opposed to taxes. In this case, it is difficult to define, and I see that here in the legislative proposal there is an extension of this purpose of using the water treatment fee, and then the question really arises is whether we as payers and those services have a certain counterservice or are increasingly turning into taxes. And as far as income here is concerned, it is said in the legal solution that the highest expected 70% of the revenue from the water use fees, and 30% of the water protection fee and that around 1/5 of it is intended to be spent for water supply, and 4/5 for draining. What will certainly happen to us in the future, and this is because there are fewer and fewer people in particular in rural areas, and the sewer system is being built and in these areas it will not be sustainable. It's simple to say that it's picturesque enough to be filled with someone. And now it's happening that the system has to be washed regularly to make the pump cells all in order to function. So there will be some costs that we cannot count on at this point even though we have received, there have been funds from EU funds or somewhere else from other sources we have received funds to build, but there will be major problems in maintaining these systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21933	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21934	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Žagar, yes, I was deliberately driving to the hearing of Minister Marić when he spoke about the mini tax reform simply in such a way that Croatia's water with its fees will have to change not only the paradigm of the relationship compared to that but also the purposeal spending. We are all aware that these funds are being raised at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia that, in accordance with the needs of a particular area, it must be spent, but also with the full right of citizens, the daily question I receive as a counter-service for paid funds. And where do they pick up? They're reporting to local self-government. The local self-government has no dedicated income for what the water treatment fee is used for and what the water contribution is used for. It is simply just another part of the tax that we pay as citizens where the purpose of collecting is to be redefine, etc. As for your second part of the replica, as far as the use and water compensation is concerned, I agree. However, I am a supporter of this principle that the user pays the polluter pays. We must be aware that what we use to finance it ourselves. Whether these systems will be sustainable or not, so each of us has a certain experience and these agglomerations that are at the stage of some beginnings, some endings, some environments, etc. When you look at the study how much it will cost at the end of the price of water it will simply have to collect. We're going to have to do this as citizens as end-users and we're going to have to finance it ourselves and pay for it. We're probably aware of that. Could it have been cheaper, could it have been, simply at this point I don't think we have any relevant indicators except for the studies of individual agglomerations, how much treatment wastewater costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21935	Thank you very much. Next line, Marco Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21936	Thank you, Vice President. Here's counterpart Batinić, I support this amendment you sent as a representative club on the increase in the amount of water contribution and water compensation, part of the water compensation to local self-government units 8% is really one amount that doesn't mean anything to local units. In the budget of the town of Pregrada where I am mayor, it amounts to 27 thousand kuna. With these 27 thousand kunas, you can clean some 200 metres of canals, possibly strain for one street. I don't think it'll work out for you because it's obvious that these governments are reducing the original incomes of local units, otherwise they wouldn't have voted on that tax reform last week. And in this area, we have extremely large financial expenditures. Water supply is well done, at least there's a lot more to do, but I'm more worried about the drain. I will return again for example to my city, we have made complete project documentation this year, our water supply and disposal company, which is very few, there are 2.5 thousand users, so we plan to run for it, but the problem is again solving property-legal relations and services for that drain, which is about 600 thousand kuna. And I don't see simply how we're going to fund out of the city budget if we get these, and in fact that's voted out, in which way we can even secure them. I appeal here not only to the Minister in charge but also to the Ministry of Regional Development to find certain programmes through which they will provide some assistance so that they can prepare documentation, resolve property-legal relations and run for those funds that will be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21937	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21938	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, a colleague, yes, namely the amendment went in a way that 30% of the funds from the collection, means those units that collect the water fee to stay on budgets and to build up a spending programme on city councils. So these are the means of purpose and must be used in accordance with the Water Economy Financing Act, as well as the Water Law. That was the intensity of this amendment we proposed. As for redefining the entire tax policy, this tax reform was just one small part, one small segment affected by what it would take. In accordance with the way you look at the water charge, for roads, unclassified roads we don't get any dedicated funds at the bar. This comes from municipal compensation, tax revenues, etc. etc. So, if you're going to leave the paradigm of dedicated funds, you're going to bring down dedicated funds to local self-government, then we're going to introduce a single rate of tax that we're going to pay as citizens, and redistribution of tax revenues to go through internal acts can be resolved. As for the answers and previous governments, how many big cities will they get? So here's the last thing about water compensation I believe the city of Rivers that had a disaster to say, which happened to them that it would be very good for 30 percent of those funds to solve a problem that I'm afraid is once a cash inflow based on water compensation that I can't solve. It's about the coastal drain. This is about coastal draining, this is about a number of other categories of draining that should be solved anyway. The funds that local self-government earns simply are not enough. They are not enough and therefore here is this amendment that we have proposed in the hope that they will be considered and that adequate solutions will be proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21939	Thank you very much. We have another replica. Dear representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21940	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is counterpart Batinić, since we come from local units then we know the problems they really are. In fact, I stopped, that otherwise all water-related fees, we have really many comments from citizens when they say: they pay a lot of water-paying fees, two fees, and then they still have a water-tightening fee, and it's all very useful, but citizens are often confused about what they pay, and it would certainly be good that these two water-protection and water-use benefits are really united, and that within your system, within your plans and financial plans, it would be good if they were united and that they were then known to be the purpose of what is decided. I also agree that it is indeed a 5 per cent fee when it comes to the contract that units of local self-government have as a cost to compensate for all the work being done is relatively small, but we must also indicate that from compensation, there are indeed direct and indirect benefits, so that units of local self-government have the possibility that, through the water control fees, they can actually withdraw some of the funds in this sense that one part of the system can be built, or in the very system of disposal, where, by applying to Croatian waters, they can actually withdraw certain funds, and that is, in the end, the cities actually do not see those advantages that they actually have from this indirect harvesting of such income.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21941	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21942	Well, I'm not sure, colleague, that with the foundation of the five percent water treatment fee, you can finance something. There is a fee for development. You probably thought that was coming through the price of water. It's simply an asset that the city has nothing to do with. These are public distributor funds, water supplies, where their bodies, the assembly, are usually the majority owners of the local self-government unit. So, through their governing bodies, you can do some projects and programs. However, when we look at how much water supply losses are, over 50 percent, all distributors mean when these development funds would only be used for refurbishing, water supply reconstruction, it would take the next hundred years from these development funds that are alluded to reduce water losses to an acceptable measure. When I talked about these 5 percent that it wasn't enough, I speak not only from my own experience but also from the experience of many environments, and I believe if you will go analytically to work each and every one of your local self-government units, ask through the association of cities, ask through some others if these are sufficient funds of that 5 percent. No, they're not. They simply did not, however, see one co-operation, one partner relationship between the local self-government unit and the state, and we are partners. But we're also looking for a partnership on the other side. It means the state is treating us. Why the amendment? The amendment simply for the reason of his colleague Obersnel's what happened, he does not have the means to do so. The question is whether there's a tax income. Or God forbid it happened in some local self-government unit that has 800, 900 kuna per capita income. So how can he stop it from happening for the next week or two, depending on the weather forecast. For that very reason, means the means that will be for prevention and also for preventing direct damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21943	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. On behalf of the SDP representative club and Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21944	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We at the Social Democratic Party of Croatia Club are aware of the need to pass this law. In fact, it is necessary to establish a temporary calculation for the use of water by the beginning of 2018, and that is where I will join skepticism when we say that we will probably have to rely on this calculation or very similar for a very long time. We can also agree that the integration of the purpose of spending the water and water protection fee, investment in draining and purification, in which we are quite bad, good things and we have nothing against it. But what we want to draw particular attention to is that there is a need to ensure stability of the water price, for several reasons. The first is of course that the price of water is a social category because water is necessary for the life and normal functioning of the household but also that drinking water is a human right. That is, when we speak specifically, the human right to drinking water and sanitary facilities, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 28.7.2010. So we have an obligation since Croatia is part of the UN, since we have also taken on certain obligations, since drinking water is also a human right, keep that in mind when we talk about water supply problems. The big problem is, as the speakers before me pointed out the difference that arises from waterways to the end-user, which is on average 50%. But unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues in many cases are much bigger. I can tell you specifically, we've heard about that speaker several times already some concrete examples of bad or lasting water lines, or a sewer system. I can draw attention to you, for example, to the municipality of Cepin where citizens and municipalities have informed me of the catastrophic state of their plumbing where the water pipeline Chepin, which is the supplier of the water pipeline Osijek, is, therefore, from the place of water acceptance, i.e. buying, to the end-user disappears, some liberal estimates of about 80% of the water. In other words, that system of colleagues and colleagues leaks everywhere, to express myself in a colloquial way. Also, other than net loss, there is a problem with the air in the system. The air in the system is particularly sensitive since the water when passing through the pipes, the water measure if there is air in the system accounting for much more consumption than it is. In the end, the problem of mud or water pollution, since many distributors are actually saving on pipe cleaning because it requires water, therefore the system has probably not been washed since it was released into service in this mentioned municipality. So the pipes are full of mud that comes then, we come up with a problem of water health regularity which must be a priority because the water bears the mark as a drink in most of our system, so the water that leaks out of the tap is a drink, used for drinking, used to prepare food, it must satisfy the basic health conditions, i.e. basic health regularity and in order to be such distributors but we as a legislator must also take care. Just as we are discussing the water economy here, the debate is also being held in a parliamentary, or two parliamentary, food health committees. I think we can link this to the health of the water because in a whole series of units of local self-government we have this problem, including the town of Zagreb a few years ago when there was a big debate about it, or there were physical observations in the water coming out of the tap. So quality assurance must also be one of the priorities. When we talk about redistributing funds or investing in a irrigation system, we also need to be serious for a whole series of reasons. First of all, we believe that the problem of irrigation should be strategically and systematically approached, and we fear that the approach so far has been, in principle, ad hoc. So we have a whole series of situations where already built, irrigation plants are not put into operation or do not realize their original purpose, and therefore the money that has been invested in their construction has been thrown into the money and potential that these buildings were carrying for agricultural production but also for drinking water supply has also been dumped. I'll tell you exactly what I mean about the Velishkovci and Gat case. It is a system in Osijek-Baranja County for irrigation that could potentially serve, so it has a water supply, it has all the facilities needed to pump water into the irrigation system. It could also potentially have served as a part of the Belišć city water supply system and I will remind you that we had a big problem several years ago in the water supply of the town of Belišće, so the supply of drinking water due to the disputes and misunderstandings between the town of Valpov and the town of Belišče, so a lot of problems could be solved by putting this irrigation system into operation. Unfortunately, to this day after hundreds of millions of kunas invested in its construction, this system continues to gawk empty. A unit of regional or regional self-government has never even taken over from it into its management, and according to the law, it should, and that system is growing in weeds, collapses, serves you nothing. Or we'll get into a situation where it'll be more expensive to put this built facility into operation than to build a new one. And what have we done with that? Nothing. Why is that? Why the unit of local self-government did not take this over in its management of Croatian waters, why this system is not in operation, I cannot answer you, but the institutions that were to do so must, because it is a big investment, a large amount of taxpayer money that has been invested in a project that I repeat could solve a lot of problems both as regards water supply and irrigation. So when we talk about irrigation, about investing in irrigation, in agricultural production, we need to strategically and planly approach it. Unfortunately, we still don't have a strategy to develop agriculture, we have announcements from the minister that this is what it is, but for now only announcements. And in order to even plan our irrigation network, we need that. In order to plan the construction of the network, we need users, why do Velishkovci and Gath not have any users? Let's put aside now that it's not operational. Maybe it would have been if there were more users who were interested. Why do some other projects like a lateral channel in the Prince's Vineyards have. So that's a problem to look into. The more we talk about projects financed by public money, therefore taxpayers' money, regardless of what possibly the EU is co-financed in a certain amount, so EU money is also taxpayers' money, since the Republic of Croatia is also paying into the common budget. And finally, we have a problem with water distribution, draining and water treatment. So my predecessors talked a lot about it. Unfortunately, we are far below the European average when it comes to water draining and water purification. This is a major problem that we will have to face, for which we have the EU resources at our disposal, which we have withdrawn by good work but still insufficiently, remains insufficient because the percentage and percentage of the solution to these problems is at a very low level. Since it requires significant financial resources for the necessary improvement of these systems and since the burden lies well with the units of local self-government, so when we talk about distribution, draining water here above all I think about the units of local self-government that are mostly owned by supply and disposal companies, it is necessary to give more financial capacity to local self-government units. We often talk about decentralisation, we often talk about units of local self-government having to take responsibility, we often talk about it, and I absolutely agree with it that the members of the local self-government unit were mayors, mayors, mayors, the first communication channel our citizens have towards the authorities when they have a problem they need to be given levers of government or sufficient fiscal capacity to solve these problems themselves with their citizens on their own behalf and according to the priorities that local self-government units set themselves. Why is that so important? Exactly because units of local self-government are micro-management. Let's say so in this system and could be much more quality than perhaps some large distributor or Croatian water assess priorities, which are burning problems and why so. When I talk about water distribution, we also have a big problem, and these are distribution areas. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will draw your attention to only one thing, according to the 2013 data in the Republic of Croatia, there are 152 water distributors, in the area of the entire country. For example, I'll give you a comparison in Hungary, in the Netherlands, that's about 10. Now compare Hungary which is twice as big as Croatia and the Netherlands which is several times larger than Croatia is significantly smaller. In order to ensure quality, in order to ensure the financial power these companies need to have in order to maintain the network quality but also to be able to maintain certain standards and water and supplies and services, it is necessary to round up our distribution areas. That's what the government went through in that direction, and unfortunately we're pretty much there, and nothing's going on in this, at least significantly in this area. So here I pray and the minister this is an important problem, a significant problem that needs to be solved. Finally, the whole problem of the water economy, as well as the problem of the distribution of draining and purification, as well as other problems of irrigation, water price stability, etc. It is necessary to approach strategically and systematically and to assess this law as only a fire measure in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21945	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. First distinguished representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21946	Respected fellow SDP officer. My criticism will not be directed at you, nor at HDZ colleagues, it will be directed against one system or way of managing water resources. channelling river and riverbeds that kill biodiversity and which actually create suitable conditions for floods. In fact, they flood as such or disasters, or floods cannot be avoided, when there is a flood of a large amount of water, it is obvious that this water must come out of the trough somewhere and therefore it is necessary to work means systems in which it will be so-called. flood areas in which these waters will be poured out. Instead of doing such systems as the Lonjsko polje or the Kopači butt simply ignores the whole problem of floods, concreteized and channeled rivers, there are no more fish in these rivers, there are only frogs and on this sewerage of rivers and streams of ours, so Croatian waters spend millions of kunas and all of this is taken from citizens. So it's a crime of the nature of money from citizens, and I don't see it in this bill, and I don't know what it's going to do, but it's going to end in crazy practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21947	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21948	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, so that you have touched actually one topic that is very broad. It's a flood defense, it's a whole bunch of other things that can be solved not by this law but relatively simple. Here I will draw your attention to the fact that today is still in force to ban the extraction of sand from the river Drava, or gravel from the Sava River. That's what's causing the big problems. Sometimes it's easier for us to ban something than to control it. And I'll tell you what's the problem, so since the sand is being removed from the Drava River, the gauze is being reduced, so the ships don't have access to the port, the river port of Osijek, it also increases the trough of the river itself, or the water level. And finally, the economic effect is also very significant and quite far-reaching since our neighbouring country Serbia is the sand when it comes to the Danube so it pulls out and sells us that same sand, our sand that we could take out of the Drava and we could use. Same thing with the Sava River. Although this was about overexploitation of the gravel from the Sava River and from our neighbouring country, it went so far as to subdue the foundations of the bridge, i.e. bridges on the Sava River. That's the problem, but it can be regulated and I believe our port administrations can keep it under control and at least the entrepreneurs themselves who I've talked to have told me that they're not looking for compensation for extracting sand or gravel. They've had enough to pay for that sand they took out and they're calling the port administration, here's what you're telling us here, you're taking out so many cubes, there's so much to be absolutely under their control. This would also help our economy, namely the waterways, the construction industry and our local entrepreneurs, which reflect river and waterways anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21949	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21950	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister. My dear colleague, I'd like to replicate this circle of yours as a distributor. In fact, we have very bad experience on the ground in the current state example of me here in Split where the owner of the town of Split is distributors or businesses, plumbing and sewers and not a lot of this small municipality especially in the part of Zagorje which brings very little income and is the majority owner of the town of Split. And they have no reason or ambition to help, invest, and not even expand the network in any way because they have no reason to. And we're thinking about breaking up that big to less, and I know it's problematic financial. But you should give some kind of freedom, because this system is unsustainable or raised to the county level to make the county own someone. It's a circle again. We all tend to decentralisation normally, but this system is unsustainable in this way. Because the big city has no reason, or company that owns the big city to invest it, that it's looking for European funds, that it's competing for programmes. And it's an unsustainable condition for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21951	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21952	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sanader, that logic is that it should be better. In larger systems, it's more money. We will assume that the system is solid, that it will invest evenly and that their interest will be a quality service everywhere. The same thing can happen if we raise it to the county level. So what can keep the county from focusing on bigger centres and not less? But we always have to have that kind of good faith, because Homeland isn't a firm. If it were, then a lot of settlements wouldn't have a road, because it's not worth it, because there's too few residents. If you include means all costs of depreciation etc. It's just not worth it. But also this system, this system of small, particular distributors is also not sustainable. Here I told you an example of the Chepin municipality where the water supply network is indeed in catastrophic condition. And now, I'm afraid that at some point we'll just come to read from the papers that someone poisoned himself, that the water was broken. Many locals can no longer use the same water they charge for drinking, cooking, and the question of how much they will be able to use it for personal hygiene. And keep in mind that if you have a great spot of mud, or sand in the system, that it, that faster spends and systems within households, so the pipes, that you have to maintain them more often, change them, etc. So there's a whole series of problems. What's the best solution? Well, we're here to make a deal and try to find him. According to me and the experiences that I have, so the waterway Osijek also takes care of several neighbouring municipalities that share in the waterway. No major objections have been recorded so far. And of course, it is necessary to access it in an agreed, phase, strategically and with a vision and to provide everyone with the best possible service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21953	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative, Marko Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21954	Thank you, Vice President. Here's colleague Hajdukovic, two things that led me through your debate on this replica. First, you mentioned losses in the network itself. I think it is extremely important that Croatian waters pay even more attention to co-financing of projects related to the recovery of losses in the water network itself. We built the system, I don't think we're fast enough, even though the big funds were invested in it anyway. But on the other hand, we have a large part of the network that is in an extremely bad state and is actually producing huge, huge losses that are ultimately paid by our citizens. Another thing about these service areas. I also come from a city that has an extremely small water distributor that covers only two other local units less, but which is why it's important to go to service areas. I don't think they're going to have smaller distributors or financial, or human capacity to implement all these projects that should, primarily, relate to the drain and, in part, to the water supply. So the sooner we get into this togethering, the easier it'll be. Because the big projects are ahead of us, and it's actually about smaller distributors. I think that the proposal for service areas that exist is certainly good and that this law also needs to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21955	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21956	Thank you very much, Comrade Vesligai. Yeah, I agree. And when we talk about co-financing for network development, so what is the fiscal capacity of the local self-government unit that you're headed. Would you be able to finance if you were asked to, say, participate 45%? How long would it take you to do that? I bet at least one annual budget would be spent on it. And now that we're talking about you coming from a place that I would dare say above the average of development in the Republic of Croatia, what to say about a whole series of other municipalities, cities in the east of Croatia, or from Dalmatian Zagora, or from like that which do not have those capacities. How do you get to that? That's where the state should be first. So the more units of local self-government try to unload. So I agree, and here I again underline the distribution, that is, the supply of the area, the circulation of their, or the circulation of the distributor, is one of the possible solutions. But it's also closely related to, say, waste management that's within the jurisdiction of this ministry. So one small municipality, one small town cannot solve waste disposal problems, which will be in line with European norms, directives and standards. She can't do it alone, but she can if she unites with multiple units of local self-government. Then they will have fiscal, you have also talked about human resources, so they will also have human capacity and everything else that is necessary to solve this problem in a quality way, and that is cheapest for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21957	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. We're moving on to the next debate on behalf of the club. On behalf of the club MOST independent list Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21958	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers and co-workers, respected fellow MPs and MPs. You have before you a bill whose adoption is necessary for several reasons. In particular, for the purpose of establishing a provisional accounting for the use of water paid at the price of the water service, public supply for the period from 1 October 2016 to 1 January 2018. We recall the Regulation amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, which was adopted in accordance with the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it regulates certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament's section, ceased to apply on 1 October 2016, which entered into force the provisions of the original law of 2009 and which governed the way in which the water use charges were charged in such a way that the same amount of water calculated was covered by the origins and other provisions, and, as a obligor, determined by the water service provider. The aim of this law was, in the long term, to address the problems of water loss in the network, and to bring the compensation in line with the more technically acceptable water loss as a result of the telemetric control of the quantities of water affected. Since significant changes are being made to water service suppliers, a transitional period of at first five years has been left for adjustment, and that period has been extended on 1 January 2017, just as a regulation which ceased to apply on 1 October 2016. In the same time limits, water charges continued to be charged and charged to end-users and consumers respectively. Since water service suppliers have not been able or provided funding for the treatment of water loss in the network on average net loss is around 46%, counterpart Hajdukovic said that in some parts it is up to 80% somewhere but the losses are high. By retaining the collection model for the use of water by affected quantities of water, rather than by the quantities delivered, it would lead to a more significant collection of water without the objective of recovery of losses being achieved. As a result, there would be an unfair burden on users of water services by contrasting the price of water services between the affected and the delivered water, which is also an additional blow to the standard of citizens as well as to the business itself and the financial stability of water service providers. Therefore, this law proposes to establish a temporary way of calculating the fees for the use of water, retaining the current current model of accounting according to the supply of water to end-users for the period from 1 October 2016 to 1 January 2018, or until conditions are obtained, or until a fairer manner of accounting is proposed with the possible change of the obligors and fundamentals. The re-action of the provisions is proposed for the reason that the proposed method of calculating the fees for the use of water does not change the current method of accounting, thereby not affecting the increase in the price of water services for end-users, which is in accordance with the provisions of Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that, for particularly justified reasons, only certain provisions of the law may have a return effect, and we believe that avoiding the added burden on consumers' end-users or burden on citizens' standards resulting from the difference between the water concerned and the water delivered is a very legitimate reason. Furthermore, the adoption of this law is conditioned by the need to integrate the purposes for which the aid is spent for the use of water and water protection benefits, thus allowing their redistribution to projects co-financed by grants. Indeed, the applicable legal regulation of the use of aid for the use of water and water protection compensation is limited in such a way as to make use of the compensation for the use of water to finance the construction of public water supply buildings and the compensation for the protection of water for the financing of public sewage buildings. Given the large investment cycle facing the Republic of Croatia with regard to meeting the obligations in the part relating to the financing of the construction of water municipal infrastructure and the need to ensure the coverage of part of the national funding for eu-communal projects, thereby maximising the withdrawal of EU funds, this law proposes the integration of the use of water and water protection charges. It also extended the purpose of these fees to finance the construction of connections for end-users of public water supply and public disposal, as well as the financing of the procurement of water service equipment. It is important to note here that the consummation of this provision, which was laid down by the Regulation amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, significantly improved the withdrawal of eu funds, in 2016 until 25.11.2016 the total implementation of water utility projects financed from eu funds amounted to around 806 million kuna of which 609 million euro of funds, which is more than 2014 and 2015. During 2014, around 99 million kunas were realised, of which 64 million euro of funds, and in 2015 around 396 million kunas of which 255 million kunas from eu funds. Furthermore, the proposed amendments to this law relate to the extension of the purpose of funding from the water contribution, financing and construction of irrigation buildings and the purposes financed from the water treatment fee. In view of the fact that funds for the financing of the construction of irrigation buildings and insufficient for the implementation of the project under the national irrigation and management project for agricultural land and water in the Republic of Croatia, the proposed changes to this law relate to enlargement, as indicated for the purpose of funding from a water contribution in such a way as to finance and build irritant buildings as well as for the purposes financed from the water management fee, such as the construction of regulatory and water protection facilities, the implementation of preventive regular and extraordinary flood defences, construction of building facilities for basic melioration disposal and other purposes financed from water control fees. It should certainly be pointed out that this measure results in a reduction in the state budget for the construction of irrigation buildings, thus allowing the Croatian waters to use 58 million kuna in 2016, collected from the basis of a water contribution to the construction of irrigation buildings. In the middle of this year, thanks to these funds, after the seven-year construction of the water supply-melioracian irrigation channel, the total value will be 493 million kuna, we have finally brought water from the Sava River to the Bosutsko field, which will improve the small water regime of the water streams Bija and Bosuta and allow for irrigation of around 8,500 hectares of agricultural surfaces. The completion of works on the construction of this channel means a turning point in the possibility of irrigating the east of Croatia because each investment is raising the standard and quality of life in rural areas of stock for their future. Finally, the adoption of this law will allow for the establishment of a temporary accounting for the use of water in order to avoid the burden of end-users or the burden of citizens' standards by purchasing water prices resulting from the difference between the water concerned and the water delivered until a fairer way of calculating the compensation in question is established. Furthermore, it will enable the provision of additional resources to cover part of the national funding for EU water-based projects, i.e. to meet the commitments undertaken by the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the financing of the construction of the water-based infrastructure. A stable source of financing will also be provided for the construction of irrigation and construction buildings, the maintenance of buildings for detailed melioration disposal or the financing of construction of urban coastal sewage buildings and thus the functional stability of the flood defence system and the basic melioration drain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21959	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first is the honourable representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21960	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sladovev, you mentioned well. 40 percent that we have a water loss in our networks. 46 or 44, no matter. But it's around here somewhere. But it's embarrassing how much loss we have in the nets. It happens to our citizens that the nets are old and they burst, so it happens from an hour to time to break from home, and then what happens? It happens then that these citizens are being put under charge, charging that same water even though the truth network from hour to house belongs to a citizen. But if we're losing so much water and we're aware that these installations are old then at least the citizens in those cases should at least forgive that part of the water that's expired. I'm glad to hear this, too, that we're on our way to make water canals for Slavonia, so here's the MOST there in Voda and Minister Dobrovic. I hope he makes some moves in that. If the Waters spend 3 billion approximately the money of the Croatian budget I think it can be done a lot, that could even be believed a lot, a lot, a lot sooner made for Slavonia's interest. But thank God for even now making at least one part of it even though it could have been a lot more. And with these water losses, I don't know how many options and how many ministries can make these losses shrink. True, we are rich in water and that at least we don't need it, but again, it wouldn't be nice for people who get shot by pipes, who are old and old houses, people who have less and less money, to have to pay for it if the pipe broke. That's what I'm saying: if the pipe broke behind the clock. The truth is a citizen is responsible, but a citizen cannot dig up the country constantly and see and change the pipe. At least in that part, if we lose 40% into something else, we let those people have some kind of bar in that part of the favor that they don't pay for what they're not really guilty of because they're installed and unquality pipes sometimes when they're paid well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21961	Thank you very much. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21962	Well, Mr. Muscle, I agree with you that citizens shouldn't pay for a crack pipe, especially if the investor is responsible for the rupture of that pipe. But I would like to point out that it is this very law that in some ways water service suppliers are forced to reduce this huge percentage within a certain period of time. We are aware of the tourist season as many Croatian islands, and we are a tourist country, in some parts they remain waterless on the other side. Sometimes we act like drunk rich people when it comes to water. I think Croatia is the only country where the streets are actually washed with drinking water. When strangers look at it, they can't be surprised. It's just a little something, but I agree that some social people who can't pay for water should have the right to drink water. Here's our neighbours, the Slovenians, in the constitution, have introduced that water is a human right, and I think we should do it in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21963	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21964	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, two things actually moved me to replication. You said this was a temporary reckoning and it should be temporary until 1.1.2018. Yes, it's temporary, we agree. Temporarily introduced her and passed the government, the reasons you gave her nicely. But what I want, what I want to discuss and what I want to underline, I don't believe that by 2018 something radical will change the situation regarding the state of the network if we haven't been able to do it in the past two years I doubt that in another year we will make some general step. God forbid I'm wrong so I can make time right, but I don't believe it. He honestly doesn't believe me. I'm very skeptical. The other thing you're saying is irrigation is insufficient. Okay. They may agree in one piece, but again I draw your attention to hundreds of millions of kunas that are invested in irrigation capacity that are now failing if they haven't already failed. So, uh... Take a look at the big facility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's now in a situation to grow in weeds. I don't know what about... as many users as there are, whether it is put into service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the situation in which we first build infrastructure and then worry about who the end-user will be is neither real nor responsible management of public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21965	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21966	Dear Mr. Hajdukovic, I agree especially that I believe that you are better directed to this particular problem regarding Slavonia. It is also amazing to me that so far we have failed, so Croatia is re-infused by irrigation because the land is plentiful with drinking water and water for irrigation, especially when we have countries such as Israel, which are one of the largest exporters and vegetables and fruits, and we know how Israel stands with water. But I say here, we'll see how it goes. It's in everyone's best interest to fix it and get rid of it and get more irrigation. Here we go in that direction and I believe the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21967	Thank you very much. We have another replica, distinguished representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21968	Thank you very much. So here we are talking about water management, but if you look at how our country lords of water you'll see that it's one disaster, that we even import water. So, not only are we importing tons of frozen bread, not only importing bills, so swears are not produced in Croatia our money but we are importing water itself. I find this state, unfortunately, of both governments and previous and present and future, as if it were living in a parallel universe where they can't see or care about real social problems and that the laws are being voted daily as on a moving track. We're covered in paperwork, and the next day we're going to have the same problems we had yesterday and the day before yesterday. So nothing changes, the form just changes, and the content essentially remains the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21969	Thank you very much. The next club is the HSS club Ana Maria Petin. I don't see her in the hall, so she's losing her right to debate. We've got another debate on our own. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21970	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the Water Economy Fund Act is required by law, and it's been talked about for a long time from the very beginning, and it always draws attention because it touches what we like to talk about water, infrastructure, local self-government, state. And indeed, many today's debates and criticisms were directed at this very way of financing the water economy itself, i.e. on these numerous fees that appear through the law itself, which are paid either by citizens or by economic operators. And these 7 fees have been the whole source of all disputes over the past 20 years, mostly when we're talking about the water economy. We have compensation for the use of water, water protection fee, water treatment fee, Melioration discharge fee, development fee, irrigation fee and water contribution. When we look at 7 fees we'll all conclude maybe a little too much, maybe a little bit too much anyway. However, they are all explained that they are reasonable and there is a reason why they exist and why they have to be just as big as they are now. And we've all heard today that if there's something in Croatia, there's water, but it's a problem as well as in some countries that have oil, and then they get into trouble because they have a lot of oil. We're in trouble because we have obviously plenty of water. When there's a lot of things going on, I say the problem of managing those resources. And there were some discussions that I could agree with, some that went a little clean towards some individuals who wanted to use it more for populism than for what they really wanted in that part, order was introduced. Now we're talking about a water fee. She's really grown enormously in the past few years. In 2011, this fee amounted to €0.80 per metre of cubic water consumed or delivered. In 2013, it was already raised to kuna and 35, and in 2014 it was raised to 2 kunas and 85 limes per metre cubic. So we have a 300% increase in SDP power, 300% from 0.80 to 2 kuna and 85 lip. Later I will show what this means in the financial account of the Croatian waters themselves. How is that explained then? That's where one major dispute arises. The former agriculture minister, Mr. Jakovina, explained three billion euros in front of us. We need to secure our own participation, we need to raise it because we need to develop, so water supply systems, draining, irrigation, etc. However, this law says something else. It means that we must invest this water use fee in reducing or removing shortages on networks, water supply networks where there are huge losses. And we're coming to a dispute. Why? Because whenever you ask someone what Croatian Waters finance, they say we finance the main water supply facilities. These are water supplies, main highways, etc. Secondary networks whose problem? Secondary networks are the problem of local self-government where losses are the largest of these 40% in secondary networks. It means money to us, to you, to resuscitate the secondary nets of income that you will find out from your own options. And now we come to the Croatian waters themselves. Their balance is very interesting for 2015. Their property is about 13 billion kuna. Money at the cash register if I took a good look at 263 million kunas or at the bank. Their demands are $533 million. Whom We ask of the last of those who spend from the users. The liabilities of $3.5 billion, for loans and loans 2.8 billion in addition to all the fees that we pay, in addition to what we have been paid for, also had a debt of 2.8 billion. As the financial plan seemed recently we had a budget for 2015 here at the debate last week and the division said that Croatia's waters planned 3 billion and 130 million kunas of revenue and expenditures were made with 3 billion and 83 million kuna. Of which, 109 million kuna is paid, loans annual payment of 570 million kuna and then investment programmes. The maintenance of water streams and water buildings 843 million kunas, investments are planned to mean water supply and draining at 1 billion and 433 million kuna of that water supply of 83 million, drain 104 plus project Adriatic 197. So about 300 million kuna. Irrigation of the 127 million kuna and EU funding projects at the level of 397 million kuna. Funding projects through the loans of CEB and EIB 329 million kuna. It is that 1 billion and 400 in terms of building infrastructure at the level of 2015. And now that we compare what we had in 2011 and what these fees mean and their increases with 2015 as execution, then we can see where some shift in income of Croatian waters occurred. In 2011 the revenues amounted to 1 billion kuna and 509 million kuna. So now we're talking about 3 billion. At that time, we spent on water control, from the water treatment fee, in the year 659 million in 2011 and 2015. 779. The difference is about 120 million kuna. For water protection 288 million 2015, 221 2011 one small increase. But now we have a fee for using water in 2011. 298 million kuna, that's those 0.80 limes. 2015 769 million kuna. Your difference in 4 years is only with that increase of 300% 471 million kuna more. The water contribution at the same level is 330 million in 2011 and slightly higher in 2015. Where do we see an increase in income from Croatian Waters? Water fee 470, and EU funds, I said investments at 397 million kuna. That's the plus we've had over the past four years compared to everything that's happened until 2011 and up to the increase in this fee. What does that suggest? It suggests that Croatian waters have one paved path, a path that everyone behaves equally every year, so if we miss a little bit let's pick up some let's say fee. And there's a conflict with the local level that says give us something to do with it. Because we have obligations left, this law provides for the removal of the shortcomings i.e. the reduction of the lost cubes of various waters in the network but that network is secondary to most more than the main water supply facilities and there will be a certain problem at least that's how I see it. Because local self-government can hardly finance these losses, and that's why they are big every year, and the law predicts something else. So here we would like to hear in some debate what the minister thinks because I think those Croatian waters still need some other way maybe in the next period maybe a little change in their policy. Because when we look at all those numbers more or less they're equal every year almost. Approximately 20 more, 10 less, only funds pop up, and this water protection fee for the use of water paid by citizens in the account, and these accounts have collected about 20 to 25% depending on how much water is spent. And we think maybe we should, this is okay that we have to postpone for a year more, because it's hardly going to be solved these losses, and it wouldn't be good for those citizens to fall on their backs, and all the losses that would appear in the net, so someone's counting on us with some kind of license plate on how guilty they are because the system isn't good. It's really okay, but we really have to use 2017 to make a move in that part and find a way to resuscitate the part where it relates to secondary networks and there are losses that are most important. When you ask Croatian waters, they say we don't finance it. I think in that, you ministers are now new to me, because you now have water, before they were at the Ministry of Agriculture, and it will take you time to point it in the right direction, because I might say it's obviously a problem, and next year we might be arguing to postpone another year then this kind of bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21971	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21972	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, I understand your debate and in the direction that it is very important that when citizens pay a certain fee, they also receive a certain service because they pay. that they know where their money is spent. I'll tell you on an example from my county what can happen and we can see that yesterday's topic when we talked about the Public Procurement Act has nothing to do with this. You see one of the biggest projects of the Capinci-Vaška irrigation system is now in the final phase, the first phase of some 126 hectares, a total of 2,000 hectares are scheduled. When project documentation was produced, the total estimated value of works on 80 million kuna, the county should have paid 20% but it was huge money for the county. However, only unfortunately or unfortunately, it happened that the performer could not respect going with dumping prices, could not honor what he had agreed and there was an end of the contract. After that, a change of project shall be made. In the change of project by changing technical characteristics we get the same area for irrigation cheaper 20 million kunas. And this is the story in which Croatia is leading along with the local (regional) unit and the regional self-governments have to call the competitions transparently because we can increase this fee as much as we want if it is not spent fairly, we will not succeed in achieving those goals that we have outlined, especially if we consider that in the RH 2.6 million hectares only one percent is a system for irrigation. And when I say this, colleague Hajdukovic said how many users he would be, it's also very important in the design phase, because if we don't have a user, we're going to have to pay for the pens, and then we're going to have to go for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21973	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21974	Comrade Sagar, I've cited seven fees, these two I don't think have yet been introduced for meliorization and irrigation, and there would be some authority I think the county should do something in that part, however, obviously and they avoid their share of responsibility. However, as far as I'm concerned, we from the former Minister of Agriculture, the former Minister of Agriculture, had another initiative that has greatly accumulated our municipal system, which is one famous story about water agglomerations where we will have 20 water lines at the level of the Republic that will supply the entire area of the Republic and there has been one regulation, new utility companies have been established that have only water supply, everything else has been forced out into other utility companies. We got double utility companies, somewhere the same director worked in both utility companies to save himself because it was possible and we didn't bring the story to an end. We don't know where that story is and it's also standing in front of this minister to see what's going to happen next, not only here but also the other minister, the minister of agriculture. Because this story about Croatian waters also needs to be a lesson in what to do and how to do further, whether we will continue on the same path, so when we are a little short of a fee or we will try to change something through the system because whatever we do to Croatian waters when they invest, they invest in local self-government, it is a fact. And we can't say nothing was done. When you spend a billion and a half, two billion kunas you can see it except of course you can't see the plumbing, so it's a little problematic. It's mostly seen when everything's dug up. But it's something they don't have to do. It is only a question of whether we can in some way help citizens to be more efficient not to break everything on their backs and see how it is mastered by this company that it really is a normal company because we see that its level of duty is quite high given their balance sheet not too much, but it is not insignificant. And of course that's a big part of the year. The annual 570 you spend on repaying loans is not a small amount of money, and that would allow you to do a lot of things. But well, it's a story for...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21975	Okay. We have the next replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21976	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Boric. I'll start at the end. I'm just gonna ask you one question. Do you think it is normal for Croatia to have 152 water distributors with its 4 million inhabitants, and one Hungary with 10 million has 10 or one Netherlands with 20 million to the same number? Well, I don't think there's a trap that the government has seen and why it went to these... distribution areas. Now, you're giving an ever-wide historical review of course with an emphasis on those things that suit you, but I want to remind you of something else. All these years as long as there has been local self-government in Croatia, so in modern Croatia since '94. a further payment of the municipal fee. What's the cost of the communal fee? To improve municipal infrastructure. So we're also talking about the water network, the gas network, the power supply network, etc., etc. Good electricity is more under the HEP. But the problem is that this money was being spent or not being spent properly, and therefore many units of local self-government did not use that dedicated money to restore the network to improve it. Some units of local self-government are, but the problem is that you said yourself in response to the replica now just before, it is that this network is underground and gas and watery it is not visible and it is not attractive, and one fountain you can hardly see it is not attractive. And you can see one of the fonts, but you can't see the pipes in the ground, but you can't see a little net loss. And finally, what's in the interest of some "local power man" and as many fountains as possible, and for the losses in the network, it'll pay the citizens anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21977	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21978	Thank you very much. Col. Hajduković, this story about the municipal fee collected by municipalities and cities that are collected on real estate is not what you say, and it is not about water supply systems, but about roads and cemeteries and maintenance of unclassified roads and what I know is not what it's all about. What utility companies do and create the difference where they can invest something in secondary networks is called a development fee or some kind of possible development fee that binds to the used cubicity that each city has set for itself, so that it could generate a certain amount of funds that can then be used as a deposit for a loan or something else. And some cities used it both my city and the island of Rab, it used to be called some kind of eco-mark or something, and from that was built draining or water supply systems. However, there is one thing about the financial plan of the Croatian Waters that last year 83 million kuna was invested in water supply as a special and we still have part of the 397 and CEB and EIB loans 329, so there is probably water supply something in this. And revenue only benefits for the use of water cross 700 million kunas and should be as for the purpose of what this law speaks of. That's where we need to establish normal functioning and enable if it's for that, then we're going to remove the losses in the nets and let us deal with it. If we don't, then we'll pay for something that will continue to burden everyone in the next period. That's what we're talking about and it's nothing in the sense that something is so negative. I to Croatian waters, we all know that there are professional people working there and there are really very professional people in all areas and that a lot of things are done is Croatia is big, scattered and it is not easy to make water in our places that are especially on islands or somewhere, but all this costs, you can't see, but just some little inputs or suggestions that we should see what we really do when we already bring the law what to do with these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21979	Thank you very much. We have another replica of your exposure. Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21980	Dear counterpart Boris, although really long years in collaboration with Croatian waters can present a whole series of praises in the part of how much they participated in financing construction and participated in the preparation of the documentation itself. But when we mention the losses and what happens, our situation throughout Croatia is such that we still have a whole series of water supply systems through asbestos pipes even in some areas and that the failures are great. However, when you talk about financing and how to solve this problem, there is a provision that allows units of local self-government if they want to and in agreement with Croatian waters, to charge this fee, and then leave 5 per cent for this service of Croatian water. I think it would be necessary to resolve this issue by legal means to allow units of local self-government, because Croatian water uses data provided by units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, about the cubicity of space, housing, business facilities, and on the basis of these fees. If it was legally decided that for the name and account of the Croatian Waters, units of local self-government were to do so, at the expense of the payment of funds to Croatian waters, but to keep the service 10, not 5%, but 10%, and that these funds are strictly intended for these things to eliminate losses, I think that part of the problem that is related to financing directly handing over the local self-government unit itself, and regardless of Croatian waters would be much easier to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21981	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21982	My colleague Klaric, I know that Croatia's waters really invest a lot, have lots of multi-annual agreements and two-year agreements, and this is not at all controversial. I've even brought out how much it's on the level of the year. That's not small. I mean, I just wanted to warn you that we have one story that we inherited, and that's the story of raising the price of the fee for using water from 0.80 to 2.85, with the goal of participating means that we have more withdrawal of funds from the EU, that we have our share, etc. However, when we look at the annual implementation of the budget, we see that in the part of the supply of this law, it is 83 million in 2015 plus some funds from the funds and from the loans of the CBR, and I don't know how much of these depletion relations are, and how much for water supplies and multiple means of protection than it obviously invests in the water supply system, and that is where we need to find the best model and the best solution if we are already charging for the use of water, to invest and eliminate these losses in order not to come again to delay the application of this law. Or if in the end it all breaks down to Croatian citizens, I think that's reasonable enough and that we can do it in the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21983	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Final presentation by the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Mr. Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21984	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here I've heard in this debate a number of very useful exhibitions and I'm going to look back at this final address so on, I think there are three main points here. First, public supply and disposal are activities of general public interest, so they do not fall within the economic activities of the market. I think it's a good thing that's the case. So water is not a commodity on the market. The goods belong, and they are defined as common good. It is therefore defined in the Water Act and I think it is one good basis for building the whole system in a legal sense as well. The units of local self-government are those who are obliged to organise these activities and they mainly do so through their public companies. However, although this system is a simple thing, it sounds quite simple, we need to know that it goes first from the source, so that's where the water is organized, so that's where the distribution system starts, the pumps, so it comes to the city, the distribution of drinking water, the supply of water to consumers, the care of water quality. So we know that there are pretty strong standards regarding the health of water because it is, in fact, food, food. However, there is no end, then followed by drain, drain system, collection, discharge, transport, devices and finally release to the recap. And it is indeed a complex system that must meet many standards and criteria. So there are many responsibilities. So that system definitely has a lot of costs. This structure is known, so the prices and managers of these systems have a responsibility to pay all costs incurred so that this public system can function. So as far as payment issues are concerned for those citizens who cannot settle this because of their difficult social status and status, it is certainly not a question that must be addressed by the water supply system but is a social issue and I believe that there are some instruments as the social price of water, however, it is social programmes that must ensure that practically for all citizens that this right is granted, therefore the basic right to water as we know the substance without which it cannot be lived. Because, of course, the question is who is in social danger, it cannot be a question to the manager of the system because it must be responsible for the economic situation of its company. But I certainly say yes, i.e. I believe that this issue is being addressed throughout the system, so the state must take care of it. The question of loss, therefore, is actually the reason why we have now proposed through these amendments a delay in applying the obligation, the obligation to charge for the use of water is calculated on the water concerned. So in this entire system that I mentioned earlier, there is a loss, the losses are conditioned by a lot of which, therefore old pipes, irregularities, insufficient concerns about the detection of malfunctions, the failures can be such that in many places there is actually a dysfunctional leak, so the disappearance of water and the managers of companies react in different ways, in the end there are different technical circumstances, or conditions, not all this problem is equally complex, i.e. not a solution equally simple. So in the end, if we look at the loss situation, and that's pretty diverse, we have loss records, we have low-loss records, and we end up with what's really important about change. So some companies worry about this because a systematic approach is required here, so a systematic approach in the discovery of risk areas, in the planning of investments to replace some shares, and then over the years there is still a tendency to drop these losses. And some companies that are praiseworthy see this trend, so a reduction in losses. Let them not seem very, clearly, and I think that this may already be the last trend, the last case that we should afford such a delay, and that during 2017, our task is to define, together with the water sector, the economic sector and warn them about the need to face the fact that this fee will have to be calculated on the water concerned. Through Croatian waters, there is one systematic, therefore, issue of the first methodology of determination, and then it is followed by an action programme, so to help those units of local self-government, i.e. their companies to start implementing such a programme, to start planning the investments that are still necessary here but for part of the investment measures are not so intense. Okay, and thirdly, the question is, here's a proposal that we've heard about distribution and collected fees. This 8%, which I say is far too small for the local self-government unit to systematically run some policy, we heard here and finally there was such an amendment and arrived. However, I would warn everyone that we at the state level must lead on the equality of development, so it is often mentioned as a very important principle of state policy to give everyone equal opportunities for development. And just through planning, therefore Croatian waters are allowed to detect, institutions, places, or units of local self-government where it is necessary to invest to raise the situation in terms of so-called arrangements of these systems to, for a step or two. The second is a great task that we have is to subfinish so very rich, i.e. demanding, investment demanding projects in water supply and disposal, you are probably aware that in the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion over a billion euros is foreseen for this area, so this is the 6th year period, '14th to '20th, or that's 3 somewhere until '23. We should spend it. We've got to go somewhere. 30% worse to find, so that's at least 3 billion kuna. This is exactly the area, so since the state budget will definitely not be able to take part in carrying out this burden, this particular fee will therefore serve for that purpose. Of course, some projects aren't the best, and it's very important to control ideas, projects, somewhere the designers may have made a mistake, and here we need an audit, we need information from the field, and I think there's a lot to be done. And that's why all those who follow it are in their local units to follow, react to make these money as functional as possible systems, so not dead capital that will then, where we will be faced with the problem of financing the driving costs. But because of this fact, here's specifically Mr. Batinić isn't here, but here I am getting out, i.e. We pulled data for the town of Ivance, so in the area of the town of Ivanca it is in the period 2010 to 2016, so it is pure for illustration, so it is nothing to attack because here is to illustrate our policy or the need for this distribution of fees to remain. So in 2010 to 2016, a total of 12 million and 200 thousand were charged, so a little more kuna through the water treatment fee. The town of Ivanec received nearly 700 thousand back, however, in water protection projects, so the flood defense during the same period was invested in the area of the town of Ivanca 12.01 million kuna. So if the fee had been raised by 8 if it had been 30 it would not have been enough to cover that 12 million and practically what was collected in the area was returned. It doesn't mean that, it can't be quite certain to everyone, but apparently the City of Ivanec had prepared projects, demonstrated the need and then realized it. And the system of management of these funds is in a responsible way that can therefore, through one systematic way, reroute or approve funds where necessary. So somewhere you'll get less, somewhere you'll get more. In principle, with the right criteria, I think the general benefit, therefore the general national benefit of the welfare of such a system must be significant. That's why I'd end up with it. So once again, I thank everyone for the suggestions and I'm leaving the pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21985	Thank you very much, Minister. Had three replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is Tomislav Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21986	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Dobrović, here is only one appeal, given that your ministry has also received Croatian water in its jurisdiction and that you do not find it difficult and that you personally send people to the field, let them see what the situation is. You know in the eye if you have a little bit of a problem with you, people are in the way of injustice. Someone here from HDZ today said that only by cleaning channels can a certain benefit be gained if that wood mass is used. We have certain retentions where people are coming from, so let's say this material conditionally to the wild, so watch out for that other material being built into some other works that they got from a public tender and thus achieve another property benefit. These things need to be monitored and controlled. And on such small things, people's trust will be gained, and there won't be any of these problems and there won't be any compensation. And today I warned you about Voćin, and check that situation there. Because if money is invested, then it has to be meaningful, and it has to be done in the end by everyone. Because it's about public money, and in the end, as you said, it's about non-profit business and water-supply companies, so they should all benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21987	Thank you very much. You don't have a need? Okay. Let's go to the next replica, MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21988	Dear Mr. Minister, I would point out one problem that the previous government before yours has, because until then it has been quite well regulated by the amount that our citizens in the areas of local self-government units are paying for the price for development. The former government, now speak on the phone won't hear. The former government amended that provision and enabled practically the majority of municipal companies that manage the water supply and sewerage to determine the decisions of the assembly and since they have a majority in the congregations then they also direct those funds regardless of the local self-government units where they are collected. So my proposal would be that this part of the price for development in the structure of the price of municipal service is spent exclusively in the area, which was the original and intentional area of the local self-government unit in which it was selected. So it can't happen that a municipal company where the majority owner of the City of Zagreb is, as a percentage, I don't know 50, 60, 70% practically makes all decisions on its own, that the funds that are collected, for example, in the Holy Sunday or some other city are spent according to decisions of the majority owner. So my proposal is heading towards funds that my citizens, citizens of any city, municipalities are paying for the development of a water supply system in their area to be in that location, so in the area of that city or the municipalities and spending. Here is a well - meaning proposal because such practice proved to be good in previous years. Later, when the provision was changed, when the majority owner practically revoted all other co-owners of the municipal society could also decide on the funds collected in the area of any city and municipality to a priority project for him in the area of his city.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21989	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer that? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21990	Thank you very much. We'll consider and consider this as far as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21991	Thank you very much. And another replica, Mr. Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21992	Thank you very much, dear vice president, colleague and colleague. Ministers, you gave a review of the system and the use of water from the source, i.e. Its grip until its release, i.e. wastewater. This is certainly one complex system and demanding and, of course, costs, i.e. the maintenance and construction of the requirement of certain financial resources. That water is the most important resource tells and the data that planet Earth covers 71% water mass, of which 97.5% salt water, 2.5% of all freshwater, and sweet water 68m.9% is trapped in glaciers, 30.58% are groundwater and 0.3% are lakes and rivers. That water is the most important resource tells us that for growing pounds of tomatoes it takes 1,000 liters of water, wheat 1500, rice 3450, chicken 4600 liters of water. And now, one liter of oil can pollute 2 million liters of water, or 1 gram of pesticides 10 million liters of water. And now we see how much this is essentially one vulnerable system. Therefore, I believe that this, the adoption of this law, is an important step in the rational management and use of water because water for humanity is the most important resource. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21993	Thank you very much. If you don't have the answer, I'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21994	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the financing of the water economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 36. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS and HSU Representatives' Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Ante Cikotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21995	Your Honor, the government does not accept the first amendment. The final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act does not cover Article 5. The law on the financing of the water economy. The amendment in question is therefore not accepted because it is not subject to an amendment to this law and is in accordance with Article 196(3) and (4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21996	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21997	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, Article 196, but Article 196 says something else that you have failed to say because it does not contribute to the rejection or acceptance of the amendment. So, for the other two amendments, Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 3, it is necessary, and what the Government may, if it wishes to accept before the existing amendments, may amend an amendment which was not in the draft law by its amendment. Namely, we are only in this amendment, to clarify for the sake of other colleagues and colleagues, meaning Article 5(6) is amended and reads as follows: The water compensation referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are the income of Croatian Waters and Units of Local Self-Government. For the remaining two amendments to be understood, it was necessary to apply it. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21998	Thank you. I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote. Are the 1st Amendment to be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received enough votes to be included in the final draft law. The 2nd amendment was also submitted by the HNS Representatives' Club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u21999	Therefore, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The proposed redistribution of water contribution revenue of 70:30 would jeopardise the sustainability of water management in the area of water protection and would undermine the fundamental principle or the existing principle of solidarity of the championship in the needs of the common territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the proposed allocation which, instead of the existing 8% of the income from the water contribution, would contribute to the units of local self-government, based on the compensation in question, would be unevenly distributed, making the most of the resources available to those cities and municipalities that have the highest income, the largest number of inhabitants, while in municipalities and towns with fewer inhabitants could happen if the water protection systems against the harmful effects of the floods were not built at all due to lack of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22000	Proposer representative, MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22001	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Namely, by rejecting this amendment and by your explanation, you violated Article 51. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks of the distribution of taxes to a level playing field and the distribution of a flat tax. According to the current draft law 8% of the water contribution collected in the area of the unit of local self-government 8% belonged to JLS, the rest went to Croatian waters. Our proposal to keep 30% in the area where the tax has been collected and to spend in accordance with the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act, namely that units of local self-government, precisely those that do not have high enough budgets, are fiscally weak that they can right in times of need, floods so that they can prevent and prevent certain phenomena that are negative to property. Furthermore, in the debate I was also pulling a parallel, a water contribution, a communal contribution. And this argument of yours is certainly unacceptable simply because we believe that even in line, this Water Economy Financing Act is not in line with the new paradigm that this government imposes on tax policies and those past changes in tax laws, the user pays, we agree, but also far more just distribution of those taxes that citizens pay. The citizens simply ask, I paid the water contribution, where did that money go. I paid the municipal contribution, the communal contribution he paid remains for the construction of existing infrastructure. I've also highlighted these 8% in the debate, and I'm going to say in particular, you can take those 8%, because it's simply not enough. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22002	Thank you. I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to vote whether the second amendment should be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received enough votes to be included in the final draft law. The third amendment is also from the HNS, HSU, Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22003	The government does not accept this amendment. The reason is that the proposed redistribution of revenue from compensation and water regulation in the 70:30 ratio would jeopardise the sustainability of water management in the area of water protection against harmful activities and would violate the fundamental principle of solidarity and the need for a common area of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the proposed allocation, which would result in 30 % of the revenue in place of the existing 5% of the revenue from the collection of water, would be allocated to units of local self-government with the basis of the compensation in question, which would result in the largest of those cities and municipalities that have the highest income, while in municipalities and towns with a smaller number of inhabitants, water protection systems could not be built at all against the harmful effects of the floods due to lack of funds. With regard to the proposal to introduce a new draft document as a component of the programme, building facilities and devices, municipal infrastructures that would even be defined for purposes based on water management revenue and which would apply in accordance with the law governing the municipal economy. It is noted that such a proposal would lead to ineffective decision-making in the plan for the construction and maintenance of all water buildings and would enter into a already harmonised legal framework that regulates rules on water and not rules on the municipal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22004	Here you go, the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22005	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, you mentioned 5%. I'll repeat, these 5% get units of local self-government to collect water collection or water treatment fees that are insufficient. Estimated value of that cost directly that it has despite Croatia's return of water as a material cost somewhere over 8%. So it's insufficient so you can't claim it's enough. That's one thing. The second thing, an explanation of why we asked for 30%, that's an assessment. I expected that although it would be a short time to re-analyze you from Croatian waters as well, you might suggest that it is 25%, that it is enough. The last time the minister, unfortunately, was, for health reasons, I had to leave the debate answered and unusually, I did not mention in any context my discussion the environment from which I came, so for now I prepared a complete elaborate on the existing environment from which I came, how many miles, 100 kilometers of water flow. How much is expensive, how much is spent and how much is money. The unit of local self-government from which I come, my own funds invested, beyond what the Croatian waters were doing. I'll deliver it to you. Furthermore, I consider this to be an injustice with the law itself. And it is expected that in the following year you will have to change, especially the water treatment fee because it doubles the tax on real estate, first by amending the property tax law and again burdening you to change, to consider these proposals, that's one thing, and that you will naturally respect. And secondly, I hope you and the minister and your services will do the same. And why 30%? It is simply because I believe that the system of Croatian waters today has a space for rationalization. You have a new Public Procurement Act and there was an existing one. In that part, I think the minister and you should scratch a little more into the functioning of the system and more use of public procurement in the performance of works by Croatian waters. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22006	I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to vote on whether the 3rd amendment should be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes in that amendment have not been given that it can be included in the final draft law. As Article 5 of the final proposal of the law has a feedback on the same obvious Committee on Agriculture. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return to action of certain provisions. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, the following conclusion is estimated to be that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the reverse action of the provision of Article 5 of the Final Proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 83 for, 37 abstentions and 1 against the proposed conclusion. Now we're going to vote on the law itself. I am voting on the final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 86 for, 38 abstentions and no votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22007	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They discussed the Committees on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the pension system, the social partnership, the Committee on War Veterans. We also have one amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee and I ask the rapporteur to take his word. On behalf of the rapporteur, if it is well written here, then it will be Katarina Ivanković Knezevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22008	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In particular, the applicable Pension Insurance Act regulates the various current pension values for the determination of pensions that are made exclusively in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act in relation to pensions determined under specific pension rules. In the current situation, this meant that pensions under the Pension Insurance Act were aligned in 1.1 and 1.7. This year it was 0.46% and 0.35% respectively, which was actually an increase. Until pensions under special pension regulations were brought into line. So by this law, we propose to apply the single current value of pensions in calculating and harmonising all pensions of the same position, in fact, to all users in relation to pension coordination. And we propose that this law be passed by emergency procedure so that this same harmonisation can be applied as of 1 January 2017. As regards financial costs, this law will increase the expenditure in the state budget for this purpose by 96 million kuna in 2017 and 127 to the eighteenth and subsequently to the nineteenth year. These funds are provided for in the state budget in the item, i.e. the division of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, the head of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22009	Thank you very much, Proposer. Let's go to the first club. Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the club HSU and HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22010	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with an associate. So what do you say? This request was highlighted there three years ago in the Sava tent and the promise is being fulfilled. So there's no dilemma. Why is this an emergency procedure and what is this about? Just so you know, it's possible that somewhere in the fifth, sixth month we're going to discuss this law again and bring it back to what it looks like now because it's in line with the European Commission when our government did these moves in the pension system. Also, just so you know that if a pension is made under special regulations, it can be regulated and harmonised according to specific regulations. Because since the pension has been made under special regulations, there is a certain difference from the general rules. Is that a shorter working life? Is it a better average of years? But that's what your insurance companies are in a better position. Thus, in different periods, the Government can adjust pensions in different ways and with different criteria. What are we coming up with now? Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can congratulate all pensioners who have pensions according to special regulations neatly with the payment of their first pension, or right now, on a happy, successful and barbery new year, and all others nothing. There are 180,000 of these, and everyone else has a million and 50,000. Among them are the 800000 with a pension of less than 2000 for which nothing will happen. This is still cake cream, because the cake was given to those who had, or who had more than 6000 kuna in mind, i.e. from 1 January of next year, in the form of paying less taxes because they were covered by the 12% tax rate instead of 24% as they had so far paid. They are also 50,000 out of 65,000 retired according to special regulations. So we're obliged to tell the citizens that after the government has given an increase in pensions to all who have more pensions than 6,000, it adds one more gift to them, and that it coordinates their pensions again in the same way as it does to everyone. The European Commission's objection went to early retirement, to a large number of young pensioners, and we removed it all during our government and complaints that solve nothing, no savings in the pension system. However, the European Commission had no objection to how we proposed resolving pension harmonisation. And all the time, the European Commission's objections are to pensions under special regulations, which out of the total amount of 36 billion on them are waste somewhere between 6 billion and 7 billion in annual pension payments. On average, they have a relatively small insurance rate, especially the one for which contributions have been paid, and that was our response to the European Commission's demands and they agreed. I don't know if you asked, if you talked about it anywhere. I'm not in favour of making pensions elsewhere, but I also have to accept that if a pension is arranged according to a special regulation that it can be coordinated differently, because somehow they can share a difficult situation in society or those who have pensions of 5, 6, 10 thousand kuna can suffer it from those who really have up to 2 thousand kunas. I remind you that a total of 40 percent of pensioners have a pension below those incomes that freed them from paying supplemental health insurance means that their income is less than 1,516 kuna per family member, or less than 1,936 kuna if they live as singles. So we're in the right wave with the tax laws package, and there's nothing in this wave for them either. We are signatories of almost all charters, the European Social Charter in that part, but we should be and should in some way give priority to the fight against poverty because citizens in years are not guilty of having no other source of income and the part that we took here for those with the biggest pensions or saved from non-compliance we should have directed towards combating poverty. We should have also directed what we have taken at a rate of 24 percent tax, because the reciprocity and solidarity in the pension system must have its own order, and you can't reward it in a way that double one minority, and most of it is left without anything, or one that isn't progressing, it's not standing but backing up because the cost of life goes on, disease, age and simply those year by year are getting harder and harder, harder. Therefore, you will likely be grateful for this and for all the current parliamentary representatives and all the members of the government and all the academics. We should probably be grateful defenders because it's their request to this government and repaying this government's debt to them. How it's going to go in the future I don't know, but we're seriously playing with the pension system. If you wanted the reforms you're publicly talking about, so put on, people, then budget pensions that were made under the Pension Insurance Act at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, so put military pensions at the Ministry of Defense, so put police pensions in the Ministry of the Interior, put defense pensions at the Ministry of Defense so we know what's what. If you wanted reforms, we could have done much more and better together because former Minister Mrsic proposed the introduction of professional pensions and then what has now happened with the application of the tax package would not have happened. So far, for example, police officers who were retired have been working for summer as campers. And very successful. Because they have certain experiences and they're sensitive to some dangers that maybe we ordinary people don't see. Their employers did not pay contributions to health care or retirement and no one was obliged to do so. Only taxes were paid. Now, according to the new one, we'll pay taxes for these people, 10 percent for pension contributions and 7.5 percent for health care, but don't lie down! These people who have a pension under special regulations from paying their contributions will not be able to use a single kuna to increase their pensions. It won't work. Take a look at our mandate, in your mandate, those who came from such situations to work at the ministries and did four years in the ministry, retired with a lower pension than when they came to work, because these 4 years of contributions they cannot use because they are retired under special regulations. We haven't been able to do what we wanted, and we wanted to make these people go into a professional retirement, that's one block, and every job internship after that if someone had done it to get a reasonable pension, about as much as they have the right to a proportionate pension from different countries, so they would have the right to have a proportionate pension by several jobs they've been doing in their lives, but that's why we need to define exactly what for certain occupations, namely, professional retirement means. And that was a challenge, and that's part of it, that should be part of the reform package, only then would they know what it costs. Unfortunately, we have begun, we have not completed this project, so in our coalition government, now everything is going to go back, I believe there will be re-emergences with the European Commission. Just don't come tomorrow because of some way to adapt or in some way please the European Commission here with a story that we're going to increase our pensions when you go to early retirement and thus save, that we're going to cut pensions because pension expenditures are higher, don't come after what you've done with the story that you're going to save in another way in the pension system and that some other story is unbearable to you in the pension system. So I, as an expert on the pension system, certainly can't vote for this law. Members of our HNS club, HSU will vote on their conscience because I cannot oblige anyone to share my beliefs but I think that what is done is a fat step back, a fat step back, that in this short time we have not passed the Law on the transfer of property of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to the county, so property over the homes of the pensioners because they could achieve certain European projects because they would become owners and thus are owners, so it is the owner of HZZMO who has no kuna for those purposes, there is not a single kuna to repair their premises and regulate the working conditions and live and work where they are to deal with retirement homes. So that would mean reforming us and moving forward in the pension system. So, I underline the fight against poverty and not what we're talking about, so concentrate on how to define family pensions differently, how to stop paying for the pension after the deadline in which the worker went to early retirement and how to introduce a protective supplement for those who have no sources of income because their country is a mother and they have to worry about their existence because they are in years where they have no other help and they are abandoned by children and they are all alone, we have to take care of it. If the Republic of Slovenia has passed such a law guaranteeing pensions under which it cannot be guaranteed, and let's say those who receive small pensions from BiH have residence in Slovenia, the Slovenian state adds to them that they can live normally in that country, or Slovenia, why don't we learn something from it, why don't we go that way and why don't we gradually come to a level of European democratic countries and European pension systems. Thank you very much again, I certainly won't vote for this law and the HNS and HSU club, or members of the club can take their conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22011	Thank you very much for the discussion. The next debate on behalf of the SPD club is distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22012	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry we're discussing this law in such a late time and it's probably also the technology of the government that citizens find out as little as possible what changes the law is about, what it's about. It's absolutely embarrassing that the Honorable Secretary of State has dedicated three minutes and 25 seconds to this law. This is a law that will cost Croatia 800 million kuna by 2025. This is a law which is not, therefore, an amendment to the law that should not have come to the agenda of this House at all because this matter is governed by the existing Pension Insurance Act. It is a law that has, among other things, introduced transparency in the financing of pensions but even more equality in pensions. Because it is clear to all that certain groups of insurance companies that exercise pension rights under specific rules have less conditions for obtaining those rights or a more favourable way of determining pensions from certain general rules, let us call from labour pensions. All these specific pensions are common to be financed from the budget, partly and entirely, and they have been harmonised to this current law that we passed in 2013 in the same way as they were financed, which harmonize pensions according to the general rules which is not fair. Because the pensions we call them workers' pensions are financed from contributions, from our salaries where a very clear link between contributions and pensions has been established. These pensions were financed directly from the budget and were to follow the fate of the budget and in this current 2013 law it was done. I am sorry that there is no Minister Ćorić here who has the greatest task of making sure that the pension system is clear, transparent, that it is a system of equal rights, that it is a system in which we are all equal and not that some are in a way and privileged. To remind myself of what this law has done, to make it clear to all of us and to point out that this is completely unnecessary, unnecessary law, that it was unnecessary to bring amendments to this law at all. So in Article 88. The law on pension insurance of a pension or parts of a pension determined by a special regulation under favourable conditions is harmonised by monitoring the growth of a gross domestic social product and that if in three consecutive quarters, GDP growth is greater than 2% and the budget deficit is less than 3% of the pension is aligned with the government's decision. And this will happen in 2017, and this indicates that this is completely unnecessary amendments to the law because the law is the one that showed that pensions under special regulations should follow the budget and they and they are not limited by law but are limited by our economic situation. It's better now, and those pensions will be coordinated. Which was the goal... you remember all those stories, tents and everything else, the goal and the fact that we separated defense pensions seven months later and showed that as far as the pensions were concerned, nothing happened. The separation of pensions shows that the systems are finally transparent, that we know how much we finance from the budget and how much we receive from the contributions, so before the separation of the monthly amount of pension commitments according to special regulations was around 550 million kuna, at the level of the year about 6.6 billion, and after the separation, it was 450 million kuna per month and 5.4 billion kuna respectively. So the budget was 1.2 billion less in the commitment to finance the budget, special pensions because they were and should be financed from the funds that we receive from the contributions. In this way, high transparency in funding has been achieved and, on the other hand, the reduction of the budget commitments and the criticism of the extremely high percentage of pension costs achieved under specific rules in relation to total pensions. Here we have shown that people who retire under special regulations have a job experience that needs to be financed from contributions and not from the budget. What brings us these new changes? They do not bring transparency and re-establishing inequality. I note that the pension system is a system of solidarity and a system that should enable all to age decently. According to the proposal for a law that was presented to us, unfortunately very briefly, so it seemed as if it were a technical amendment and it is essential, equating the current value of the pension for all pensioners. Starting from 1.1.2017, pensions are re-coordinated uniquely without being coordinated separately, and this leads to another matter, and that, by the entry into force of this Act 1.1., we will be able to bring the current value of pensions into line, or pensions will be increased by 1.1%. This means that in 2017 we will have to allocate 96 million kuna, 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 205. I'm reading what the law says, but it would be fair and fair from the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and State Secretary and Mr. Assistant to make it clear to us what the price is until 2025? Some calculations have been made, by 2025 this law costs 800 million kuna. I note that there is likely to be another promise made in a tent in Sava, which is that the 10% reduction in pensions above 5 thousand kuna will likely be lifted, which will further burden the pension system. It is not worth saying that within 6 months, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will have to issue new 180 thousand unnecessary solutions on the single amount of pension, and what is fraptuous in this law is that the Minister in charge of the pension system will adopt a regulation which, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, will arrange how much we need the funding for pensions financed from the budget and that this will be regulated by the Regulation. For the first time, we have in our legal system that the funds in the state budget will be regulated by the regulation. As far as I know, there's either the law or the state budget, I don't see how that's going to work, but obviously creativity is working. The law will damage the pension system of the Republic of Croatia in such a way that, apart from the increased pension allocation, we will also have a new inequality in pensions. What my colleague Hrelja said once again, I will repeat the average pension under the Pension Insurance Act is 2251 kuna, while the average pension is made according to the special regulations of gentlemen 3774 kuna, 68% higher than pensions, labour pensions. Therefore, whether we should go into this, while at the same time the ministry, or Prime Minister Plenkovic, announces that there is no funds in the budget. Today the negotiations on the increase in the base have failed. We don't see in the budget where the Christmas money is. The next year is a regress and a Christmas card, which is 800 million kuna, and this is what funds are for. But it's not just what's going to happen in this special pension system. In addition, pensioners will also be realised, which are achieved under specific rules and who have a pension of more than 6185 kuna, will be affected by tax reform so that their pension will be even greater beyond 1.1.2017. Twice we reward those who have relatively high pensions that are laid down by laws and regulations and there is no one against the state to regulate it in its own way, but it must be fair and fair to those who have worked bloodyly to earn their pension. The peace will be unequal and what will also happen again is that we will not have any insight into how much is financed from the state budget and how much is financed from the contribution because wages will grow. The income of the contribution will grow and it is not fair that at the time of the income of the contribution, which will result in an increase in pension costs per month, that special pensions will then be financed from the contribution. It means that workers in Croatia are contributing, rather than financing workers' pensions, to finance pensions under special rules that must be financed from the state budget. All these changes cancel out. The impact of transparency in the financing of pensions is invalidated both at the level of all pensions and at the level of each individual user. I note that the way to this has been quite arduous, that the European Commission has insisted on many other things, but that we have managed to convince the European Commission that there is no need to do otherwise, to raise the penalization in Croatia, but that we can make a more transparent system. That's what we're going back to. I note that in this House a commission was established which the whole part of the implementation of the system itself analysed and nothing happened because the pensions of Croatian defenders remained in the form of the same as before the separation. What will now happen is that we will now issue the same solution and that these pensions in lip will again be the same as they have been. And what is also to point out that these additional solutions will cost about three million kuna a year. We could invest this in informing the pension system, in some other things instead of issuing unnecessary solutions as mentioned. This law wasn't supposed to happen and it shouldn't have happened. It will be very interesting to see how the regulation will resolve the redistribution of funds in the state budget. It's another newspaper. We will see what it looks like legally because it is quite unclear what such a rule would contain and regulate when the issue is regulated by an existing law that is legally stronger in force than I am. And finally, obviously, the tent cost us not only a bad image in Europe but it obviously cost us between 400 million and 800 million kuna and that's something that wasn't needed and I think we should have done differently and simply left a solution like this and not to do things that are irrational, which generate the cost, and nothing in the system is going to happen. The only thing that will happen is that you have intransparency again and that the European Commission will obviously react to this. Well, as Mr Hrelja said, we will probably have talks in the fifth month on whether the Pension Insurance Act will be amended once again because the European Commission will require a lot of other things when it sees that we are going back needlessly. The promise is a promise, but apparently it could have been solved in a different way and apparently cost us dearly in a tent in Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22013	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first replica representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22014	Dear fellow Mrsic, I only wanted to add since you and I are members of the board one fact that should not be silenced, that the parent board was against the adoption of this law. Another fact that I wanted to tell you, to explain in some ways, that workers' pensions, or pensions covered by contributions, are limited by a coefficient of 3.6. This means roughly very simply, that the highest pension can be 220 kuna per year of internship. I can only increase them years of internships. So that's how this thing works. While no matter how many pension payments there are, whether there are pension payments, certain groups of specific defenders can have unlimited pensions. Thus, it is not defined according to these criteria at all whether they have previously worked or not. I just want to illustrate that there are different approaches, and that's why I'm saying it's going to be in the D.A.'s office tomorrow with a complete budget for the defense attorney's pensions. And I also want to say that these 93 million that are planned for next year 2/3 will eat pensions that are more than two-thirds will eat pensions that are larger than five thousand kunas, and I would really if I were to really do to all those who have less than five thousand and may be according to special regulations, I would give them, but what's a little too much is, without a sense of balance, we do very bad things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22015	We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22016	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. Yeah, we were on the board together. The parent board didn't support it because simply this law that shouldn't have happened and this law that wasn't necessary because everything was arranged very clearly, transparently. At European Union level, we also received praise for such a solution. On the other hand, no one has been damaged by this law, no one's pension has been reduced, and with what we're doing right now, we're creating even greater inequalities, even greater discrepancies between those who have small pensions and those who have bigger pensions. And that is what should not have been done either in the State Secretary's presentation or in the reasons of the law itself, there is no reason why this is done except the promise that this will be done which was clearly given in the tent in Sava. No other, economic or legal or human will be proposed, to keep this law in the House. Gentlemen of the HDZ, you're rediscovering the inequality in the pension system that those who have large pensions have even bigger pensions and that they have little pensions of no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22017	Thank you very much. The next line is representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22018	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you say in 2025 it will take 800 million kuna to implement this law. I don't know why you referred to that year, you could say 2045, so it would take 4 billion. What you can see from this law is that it takes about 130 million kuna a year for this law to be implemented over the next three years. Otherwise, when we talk about the defense population, I mentioned 2040 a moment ago, when you mentioned 2025, the question is how many defenders, given their average lifetime, will be able to receive a pension in that year. According to the data, you know very well and should know that the average life span of defenders is curded under the rest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the second part, you mentioned a goddess and a regression. It seems to me that it was you who signed both the public and the civil servants and abolished the Christmas goddess and the regression. So now crocodile tears pour over those whom you have just abolished Christmas and regression, it seems a little inappropriate when you call the Croatian Democratic Community, which seems to be charging you with a tent in Sava. This is about the care of those who bloodyly earned their pensions like you said, as you said, that they had bloody earned other pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. I agree with you that the pensioners have earned their bloody pensions, but since we're talking about that adjective, then I think they've just been bloody earned by Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22019	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22020	Thank you very much. In the pension system, my colleague Bačić, whenever you make one change, you must see exactly what will happen in the next 10 and 15 years. Because the change that now seems relatively small, but when it happens in a long period, and here is a long period about ten years, then it's multipled and it's the sum we're going to single out, and I think at this point there's no need because that most of these pensions are relatively high anyway. Yeah, the defenders are dying. They're dying early, but what we should do to the defenders is do adequate care because the appointment of hospitals to veteran hospitals instead of building centers like the centers in America. We have Dujlovo in Split that we could transfer and create a large center for the diagnosis and therapy and recovery of defenders, then these unwanted cases would probably be less. As for the goddess and the regression, yes, we abolished the goddess and the regression or we didn't pay. The simple situation in the country was such that we could not bear these expenditures in the budget, which means that in our budget it was planned and we made it clear that we had no money for it. You have failed to negotiate with trade unions or a basic collective contract for civil servants or for public services, or now this part that speaks of the agreement and I do not see anywhere that you will succeed, and it must be paid because it is so by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22021	Thank you very much. We have another replica. Dear representative Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22022	Dear Mr Mrsic, if we know that 36.7 billion kuna of total pensions has been paid for 2015 and that 53.76 percent of them have been achieved on the basis of generation solidarity and 45.76 percent of the other revenues of the budget, then that is the ratio between 20.8 billion and 17.7 billion. When you talk about this change then we must say that insurance companies under special regulations are, among other things, other than defenders of the active military, police officers, demining workers, former political prisoners, and even members of the NOR and former JNA. Therefore, not only are they raised in that case by the defendants' pensions but also by these others, not to mention that there are officials in the federal bodies of the former SFRY and beyond. So here I think there are more reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22023	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22024	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs when you quote data then you need to quote them crediblely and that's your campaign slogan. And say yes, we need 36 billion. But when we talk about working pensions for that, we need 24 billion, we collect between 19 billion and 20 billion from the contribution, therefore, the transfer from the budget is only 4 and 5 billion, and for this remainder of 12 billion, we need to have funds in the budget, and that's the budget transfer. Of course, in addition to these categories we talked about, there are a whole series of categories, I note that the SDP government has abolished parliamentary pensions, that more parliamentary pensions will not be, but by looking at the average pensions, the military police, defenders and all others then it is very clear that the gro of these large pensions is in defence pensions, which is such a law that the state so passed and there is no one against but we have to be clear and fair to all those who have less pensions than those who have relatively high pensions at this point. And with what you're doing now, you're not going to get less pensions in special regulations raised than you're going to make a gap between these small pensions like the Tuvaluac miners' pensions or some other pensions so that then these pensions will be as big as they're going to be with this tax relief, and you'll probably cancel these 10%, and then eventually you'll cancel what we've brought to you that you can retire at 60 years and 41 years of employment where we've signed up for those who started not to retire early because that's what the European Commission will ask you to do when it sees what you've done with this right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22025	Thank you very much. We move on to the discussion and the name of the HDZ club representative Mladen Karlić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22026	Vice-President, respected secretary of state, esteemed assistant minister, respected colleagues. So here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, where the aim of the proposed law is to ensure the application of the single current value of the pension in the calculation and harmonisation of all pensions, the equal position of all users with regard to the harmonisation of pensions and, of course, to facilitate the technical implementation of the law, to ensure its application from 1 January 2017. And I think it's very important for every pensioner regardless of how he came to have a single pension, that he doesn't have two parts, that it's not in different ways, because it can cause problems of course when taking a loan, in various other needs where the pensioner needs to provide some means, investment or something else, so it's very important that in one of these heres a fair way actually aligns pensions, to be unique, to be equal to the same rules especially because these pensions, that is, this part of the law that applies to Croatian defenders, precisely because of their contribution, because of this hard-earned standing in one particular way that is not classically working but was just a bloody way, for someone much more difficult, for someone in a much easier but in a special way. And I think at that time, the employer to such a person, that Croatian defender was the Croatian government, or government, is that so, the state, and therefore it makes sense that pensions in this way line up that they are actually in a unique way and that we have the same position for all pensioners. What is important in harmonising is that all pensions are aligned in the same way regardless of the regulation under which they are implemented. The peace on the 1st January basis is for the next alignment that will follow the single current pension value when prescribed conditions are adopted and, of course, this will lead to a 1.11% pension increase. I think it's also something that's special because it's for a while and it's 2015 and '16. precisely because of the way in which the pension is calculated, they are not harmonised because they depend on real GDP growth towards the State Statistics Office in each of the three previous working months, three months at least 2% and compared to the same three-month-old... the year, although the government budget deficit is less than 3% in the same period and is therefore not harmonised within two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that's what's unfair to the Croatian defenders right now. Of course, since several constitutional lawsuits have been sent to this law so far, this law may be expected to fall in the Constitutional Court. And that is why I think it is very important that it be coordinated as soon as possible and that we start to apply it as early as possible from 1.1.2017. So the pensions achieved or determined under a special regulation are determined by a decision... Government on a proposal from the Minister for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the pension system with prior opinion of the Ministry of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this real GDP growth is greater than 2% and at least 2% in three previous three-month periods and if the deficit is less than 3%. As for those additional solutions and costs that could arise and that could be up to about 2.5 million kuna, I don't think solutions have to be made unless the party asks so that these costs can actually be reduced. Here is the Club of Representatives, since it has already been said it will support this bill specifically because of correcting injustice against Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22027	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First replica representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22028	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Karlic, you are probably now caught up in this immediately because I can see that you were neither prepared nor obviously looking at things quickly. So equating what, with who? Because these pensions are pensions that are according to special regulations, which are related to the budget. Easier implementation of what? The law has been implemented, it has already, for a year and a few days these solutions exist. God forbid that this year's deficit is less than 3%, our GDP is growing, the next year the government will make a decision on compliance and then these pensions will grow just like growth and pensions per employee pension. And that's honesty, we honestly say we share the fate of the state budget because the budget is funding us. As for pensions of workers, they share the fate of all workers in Croatia. If our wages rise, if our inflation is so much for 50% of that, our pensions are growing. It's a complete lie, and I guess that's the only way you went into these changes to the law that people couldn't raise their loans because their pension was in two parts. As far as I know, only a pension steak is delivered where exactly below is the amount of pension that is scheduled. Therefore, banks have nothing to do with this and it is absolutely illegal not to adopt solutions, the Law on Administrative Procedure is very clear for all will have to be reached by solutions only the question of whether these solutions will be sent or not and this is a savings only at postal costs. But the whole system is informational and everything else is going to cost over 3 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22029	Do you have a reply to the replica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22030	Thank you. Here is Mrsić, of course, a much bigger expert on the pension system than I am, but what is important is that Croatian defenders' pensions have not been in line for the last two years, and that means that it means two years, and it may be that the next year Croatian defenders have lower pensions, and this equalisation is not the same way of calculating and putting all pensioners in the same position as all pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22031	Thank you very much. Next replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22032	Thank you very much. My colleague Karlić, you do not have to be too excited about what Mrsic says because in 2014 they exchanged this Pension Insurance Act and then rewarded members of the former JNA. If you don't know, they've made it possible for them to get into their retirement if they want to re-account and admit to working hours about 60 percent and something if I'm not mistaken and that was okay with them. And they should not be too excited because they have been cutting Croatian defenders since they came to power and twice when they lost. They bother them because they know that for them they do not know what they are, except that they are our Croatian defenders and they have allowed us to be here today and that we can discuss even this law. Otherwise, you know the pension of former JNA members is paid to them 293 million kuna a year, and for former freedom fighters, 228 million kuna per year. These are 8105 and these are the national Liberation War 19442. It's really a lot, and nobody's bothered about it. I don't know why they have a problem with Croatian defenders all the time, and why they keep imposing some guilt on them when they made it possible in 2014 for former JNA members to raise their pensions if they wanted to. If there's a need, we'll still react because their lies need to be corrected all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22033	Replication response. You don't? We're moving on to individual debates. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22034	Thank you, Vice President. So we've already heard the parent board refuses this bill. This morning he was also to be discussed by the Committee on War Veterans but he did not debate because you imagine no HDZ representative, a member of that committee came to the committee meeting. I repeat, no HDZ representative has come to the meeting. It remains a secret why they didn't come. Are they just lazy and sleepy because the session was scheduled at 9 o'clock and it was too early for them or uncomfortable for them, or because already at 9 a.m. this committee would have learned from the debate if no one else else had come from my own that Croatian defenders would not get anything from this law, zero, a complete zero. As nothing was taken from them when the pensions were separated, so they won't get anything even now they're connected. Just nothing, one simple lie, one defense scam. If that was why they didn't come to the session, it shows they at least had a little morality. They lied to the defenders, now that the truth had been found out this morning that they had lied to them and that the defenders would have absolutely nothing then simply decided not to come to the session so that it wouldn't be heard at 9:00 in the morning and that it wouldn't be repeated throughout the news all day. But we'll do it again tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, until the defenders realize they've been cheated and cheated on. Tentorashi and Minister Bear. And this is what you cheat on. You promised them something, and the promise is zero, zero kuna, zero lip. That's how many defenders out there are going to profit from this. What's a pension? It was invented by Bismarck, until then it did not exist at all, until the older members of the family were taken care of by the younger family. They fed them, held them back, and that's what Bismarck invented 130 years ago. And this system of generation solidarity works while the number of employees is higher than the number of pensioners and it has to be significantly higher. The number of pensioners and the number of workers was drastically reduced in the 1990s. In 989, according to the Pension Insurance Office, the average pension was 77.22 average salary. People were happy to retire. 77, their lives continued to go on perfectly normal, they had the same standard. It's barely 40 today. So as it came to pass, the life of pensioners in Croatia is far worse, much worse than it was in the former state. Well, he also came because in the 1990s HDZ first retired a huge number of people, tens of thousands of people because they were in their way, they were disturbed by their ideology and they were disturbed by their nationality. So to get rid of them from the state administration system, they simply sent them into retirement and violated the number of employees and the number of pensioners radically. The second time they did it after the Homeland War. People went to war from their businesses, they were employed. When they returned the companies were privatized, the companies were robbed and the companies were shut down. All that's left is property. And the one who privatized it had now the property he later traded with. In order not to go to the labour market, they retired them, and for the second time dramatically disrupted the ratio between the number of employees and the number of pensioners. This led to the fact that today's pension is insufficient for life and that it is in a terrible disproportionately average pension according to average salary. And it won't be able to fix it, it won't be able to fix it for decades. What is this law doing now? This endangers the position of regular pensioners or workers' pensioners. Look, they've worked 40 years, they've been out of their pay to keep the fund going, 40 years. And these, according to special regulations, don't have to have a day of work or maybe a year. Parliamentarians, we've abolished parliamentary pensions. But MPs at the time of the first HDZ administration have gained the right to retire and are still receiving it. If there were one single day in this House, one day and now those who worked for 40 years would now be singled out to the pension fund, the pensions of those parliamentary deputies who worked one day will now be paid out of the pension fund in which the workers paid. Well, it's a scam from those workers. It's going to hurt them. Something that was clear is now blurring, something that was transparent is now becoming opaque. Is it any more logical than that part of the pension earned by work, work, effective work being paid out of the pension fund, and one not earned by work but for which the state has decided to give certain groups of people to be paid out of the budget? So the state can think like this and think like that. Not that he can, but he has to think like that. The state wants to say that when the President of the Republic retires, he doesn't have an average pension, that he has some decent pension, so he'll give him some extra. The State can think in such a way as to give the person who defended the Motherland an additional pension on what he had earned through his work. And the state can't just do it, it has to do it. Well, not those who defended the Homeland, especially if they're disabled and unable to work are on the road. And the state took care of them that way and took care of them and they'll take care of it. But that part can't go out of that fund that was being paid by those who worked. That doesn't mean you shouldn't pay your defenders. How? Who ever said that? It should, but not from that fund, but from a state budget like it has been transparent and done so far. They won't, so the defenders here won't get anything, that's a clean lie. A single lip won't increase their pensions. It'll just cloud clean water. Who's going to profit? Former members of the Assembly's executive council, Federation officials in Yugoslavia, parliamentary deputies, former members of the government. That's where they'll profit. They will now receive solutions from the Mirovinski Fund, whether they will be sent to the address or not, I don't know but now that part of the pension that has been paid out of the budget will be included in that, payments from the Mirovinski Fund. And now you won't know, you won't know if tomorrow when I retire part of my pension I'll get from the Peace Fund based on my 40-year internship as long as I have. So the state adds or does not add to it, and whether this HDZ parliamentary representative who acquired the right to retire with one day of stay in the Assembly, whether he earned that pension by working or given it to him by the state because HDZ had such a law at the time. He did. And they were Parliament pensions. We shut them down. Therefore, this is a benefit to those who have not obtained a pension by working on the damages of those workers who have gained it by working hard for 40 years. And that's why this law is unfair. He helps no one, least of all not the defenders, nothing to them, nothing to them. He's not helping, he's hurting. So, I think it's completely stupid to vote for this law. He was kind of a lousy promise made from the tents of those who didn't understand at all in the pension system, who thought they'd benefit from this. It's no use to them. And that has been shown and proved in practice. And to the members of the HDZ Parliamentary War Veterans Committee, I would like to recommend that they turn to the public and explain to both tenters and the overall defence population why they do not do their job for which they are paid, why they do not come to committee meetings, and I call on you, President, to reprimand them publicly. The session of the board was convened by no HDZ nor MOST representative, nor your MOST was held at a meeting of the War Veterans Committee this morning when this law was to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22035	Before I go with the replicas, I'm going to have to give a few words to Assembly representative Stazic. Of course, I am immediately reproving all those who do not attend board meetings, but I would also reprove all those who should be at the plenary session today because I do not know that any committee is being held at this time, and I think that there is a large majority of parliamentary representatives missing, and I will deliberately say it in my workplace. So then I commend those who sit here today, and I'd like you to pass on to your colleagues that they should earn their salary whatever they think of it. Replication was first reported by MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Stazic, you're right. The defenders will get a 1.1% pension increase like everyone else, but the government is doing this on purpose. It works on purpose because under the current law, when conditions are met, and I repeat GDP more than 2% again over three months, the state budget in the deficit is less than 3%. The government can raise pensions in the percentage it wants, which the government determines. Whether it will be one, two, five, ten percent depends on how much the government decides and how much money it has in the budget. And that's the lie you hid in front of the defenders of this amendment to the law. Because if that's how you swear to the defenders, and it's seen from today's meeting of the War Veterans Committee, then you should have left this with the government's decision in five days to raise your pensions according to special regulations by 2, 3.5% as much as you have, if you have money. And that's what this government didn't do. And that, Mr. Stazic, you're right, the defenders won't get anything or get much less than what they're supposed to get.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22037	The next representative to report for the replica is Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22038	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Stazic, I think you need to agree on that club you represent. All the time, the concept of fellow Mrsić was that the defenders would receive 800 million kuna in the next 10 years of 2025. Then you get up and say the defenders won't get anything. It means you didn't coordinate well. Please coordinate before you perform, because it is obvious that you are lying either you or Mrsic that is a fact. Secondly, why don't you say when you talk about Croatian defenders' pensions that this is about disability pensions? So they didn't do anything, they retired healthy, and they're 30 years old so they could work. Admit it. But it is also a fact that in 2014 you allowed former JNA members to also coordinate their pensions if they wanted to and re-procedure, and that part of the work experience that they achieved up to 63% will be included. And that's the difference between you and me. And you don't want to admit it. And if you want to moralize, then I think it would be correct that Mrsic tells you when he already suggests that you tell your colleague Mrssic that it would be neat and moral if there are debts, even if there is a family company that has something to pay back. That would be correct. This would be a contribution to the health system and centres that you mentioned could be made for Croatian defenders, not to owe others some blame and moral lessons. That would be fair to me. That would be fair. If it were me, I'd do it and then I'd come here and I could talk. And this is how it all played on vervain what you were saying there.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22039	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22040	First of all, Mrsic did not say that these 800 million kunas would go to the defenders. No, they'll go to privileged pensions and HDZ MPs who worked here one day, so do they. And members of the Executive Council of the Parliament in the former Yugoslavia and the Federation staff and former members of the government. [[Intruder President: I ask you to refrain from commenting.]] That's what my colleague Mrsic was talking about. When you talk about former JNA officers, you know who? Those who moved to the Croatian Army and who would otherwise have not done so would have received pensions from Belgrade, from the JNA. And you know how many pensions they'd have? Maybe 20 marks then German. Well, these people left the JNA, entered the Croatian Army, went to defend their country, and you resent us for introducing them into the pension system of Croatia. And I guess their only fault is they didn't get into HDZ. So we gave them that law, so tell the truth. Tell the truth. Look into those people's eyes. We enabled them to receive Croatian pensions from the Croatian Fund. Don't throw it away! Don't throw it away, don't be nervous, Boric! [[Intruder President: Representative Boric!]] You tell lies here, you deceive people, and then when you're told the truth, then you start jumping nervously. So don't jump! So we did it and we're proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22041	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22042	I also wanted to replicate as Mr. Boric did, as Mr. Stazić said on several occasions that the defenders would not receive any kuna, and Mr. Mrsic has on several occasions reached 800 million kuna in total, meaning an increase in costs of 96, seven. In the first year, 400 to 800 2020. So here's a little disproportionately, I see that later Mr. Mrsic tried to ease it a little bit by 1.1%. But I don't think you're telling the truth, so that's all I wanted to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22043	Thank you. Replica response, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22044	Now, once again, if you haven't understood, not the defenders or not just the defenders, but also the HDZ representatives with one day of work in the Assembly and former members of the Executive Council of the Parliament and Federation staff in Yugoslavia and former members of the government. As for the defense attorney, they had a better chance under the current law. So why doesn't the government make a decision and increase their pensions by 5%? Well, he can do that under the current law. Why take them down on everyone else? You can do that, this government can do that. There is, in the current law, a foothold for it. If you wanted to help the defenders, that's what you'd do. That you care. The defenders were very welcome to you as they were raising the tent as they walked the streets, taking out gas bottles because they wanted to bring down the SDP government. That's how much you could use them. They're no longer useful to you. I'm just afraid that when Djuro Glogoski and Klen hears that the HDZs didn't come to the war veterans' session tomorrow, they're gonna raise that tent. Go to Vukovar to pick him up and pick him up in front of HDZ. I hope Glogoski and Klen don't know how HDZ agents behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22045	Thank you. The next representative is Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22046	Thank you very much, President. So I would like first of all to replicate loudly that it is heard since fellow MP Stazic on several occasions reiterated that only HDZ representatives who were here one day in the assembly and today are making a privileged pension. I would like to make a loud statement that all the MPs who were sitting in this assembly at the time have also achieved these privileged pensions and are making them available today. I also wanted to replicate it, but my colleague, Boric, has already communicated to a different debate between his colleagues Mrsic and his colleagues, because they did not seem to agree on how many defenders and other privileged pensions, or categories, would get by changing this regulation. What I'm trying to say is, it's unfortunate that every time you talk about pension imbalance, you compare and your main asset is defense pensions. Of course, defence pensions are bigger than other pensions, and I'm not saying that labor pensions are as much as they should be given the cost of living or all the economic prices we have. But defense pensions are a special category, and we should never question them just because the defenders are the ones who made it possible for us all to sit together today. Defendants who remain disabled, most of whom are the only foster parents. I don't think it's right to keep withdrawing their pensions. Turns out they were defending their country for retirement, which is not true. Let's not be hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22047	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22048	That's why I'm talking about HDZ agents now. First, because such a law was passed by HDZ. And secondly, because no SDP agent has been replaced here for one day to retire, for one day. That's what HDZs did, and what I can do to them, you did it. Not you, pals, but in that term when they could do it. I'm sorry. Who, you say, is questioning the defendant's pension, who questioned the defendant's pension? Why are you fooling the public again? Did I do it in my presentation? On the contrary. I said that the state does and must do so, to protect the social ones who, especially those who gave health in that fight, in that war. Because they're incapable of working, because they've lost their limbs. So what are we gonna leave them on the street, that's what I said. And that state can operate more efficiently than it can now under these changes. Yeah, if he wants to. And if it isn't as we see it won't and it won't, but we're putting them with everyone else, and then say it, admit it, but don't, please, deceive the public with incorrect statements. Because what you said is absolutely incorrect from the first to the last word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22049	Thank you. Representative Ivan Kirin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22050	Dear President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Stazic. It is true that the social solidarity system is in ruins. That's clear and it's been years not to say from what you mentioned. That doesn't serve anyone the honor. The privatisation that happened and where many of you and what you said that came back from the war ran out of work, and that's a negative thing that's affected the solidarity system. But I think it should also be mentioned that in 2000 to 2003, privatisation was put aside, but at that time big, that time marked by bankruptcy, and then the system of solidarity fell most to over 300 thousand unemployed. Here's the truth. So, are there any who are better and fairer. We're all responsible for what happened together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22051	Thank you, Agent Kirin. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22052	Thank you. What are bankruptcys? What are these consequences? They are the result of completely ruined businesses. There were workers who worked for months without getting any pay. And you know who does it without getting a reward? Rob. Only a slave does that. The bankruptcys they got at least some social rights. Without bankruptcy they were formally employed without any income, even without the right to social assistance. The bankruptcys that were necessary and were the result of HDZ's criminal privatisation, criminal, thieving, are at least protected by unfortunate people. The bankruptcy was the recognition of the state that the privatisation failed and that it was a robbery. Some took advantage of the privatisation while others, including defenders, lost their lives and health, these did not go to the front, no, no, they were getting rich and destroying those companies that had not been paid in the interest of those workers who had to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22053	Thank you. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22054	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I tried to express my position, or I had the will to express it on the Committee on War Veterans last Tuesday when the session was scheduled, so at the last minute the board president canceled it. It's scheduled again for this morning. And when we just had a quorum and to start working, HDZ knocked down the quorum. I know the quorum is one democratic lever of opposition to the collapse of the quorum, this time the HDZ did it. I don't know if they're getting ready for the opposition and what happened, but mostly HDZ knocked down that quorum of itss. Well, I couldn't state my position there, so I'd say now, but I'd like to make it clear not to talk about defense pensions, I don't want to talk about it, I can only talk about pensions that are according to general regulations and pensions that are according to special regulations. And that's all I'm gonna talk about. So, the SDP government is respecting both the recession and the economic situation and the gross social product and the inherited difficult situation that we have left, was in a difficult situation. She's on her way to streamline some of the major expenditures. One of these is 19 billion withdrawals from the pension budget. You know that the first approach was to reduce 10% for pensions above 5,000 kuna, and secondly, to go into retirement separation, i.e. the separation of pensions made under specific regulations and by those by, and those by general rules. In my view, too, it was my intention that these pensions would show a more transparent and firmer commitment to those coming from the state budget, so according to special regulations, to bind tighter to the real growth of the gross social product, related to the reduction of the deficit three quarters in a row. It must also be known that the gap between pensions under general rules relative to pensions under special rules is quite large. And while according to the general rules, the average pension is 2,251 kuna, the average according to the general rules is 2,251, and according to special 3,774 kuna or 1,523 kuna is 68 percent difference. How far apart is it, it's not bad to compare that 350 thousand of our pensioners don't receive more than 1.523 swear their pensions. So that moment, too, was tried to consider how to reduce the gap and decomposition among the pensioners. And while there was a unique criterion in force of forming the current value of retirement, so until there was this separation in that mass of meat and cabbage, it was not clear how much separation it was, or how much separation it was in the case of pensioners, and it was, in some way, on the surface. Now this return that we have to a unique criterion also means an increase in pensions by special regulations why we need additionally, we heard 430, over a certain period of time and 800 million kuna, but should add that since it is a promise to return and those 10 percent, it is about a billion and 200 thousand kuna that will cost to change this law in a certain period of time. My opinion, I feel, I think, that the SDP government has done a good job in its term of office. Today, all macro and micro economic indicators show this. But if we had done so well, that simply by this law, or that this law could simply seize that billion two hundredths in some time period, I really didn't know that we had done such a good job. So if we've done such a good job, if we are truly convinced that it is so, that the SDP government has created such solid foundations and that our future is so sacred, here I promise if I am convinced to the end I will vote with both hands for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22055	Thank you. Since there is no replica, we move on to the final word of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Before I say it again, what was the objective of this law, I would like to say that I accept that, or that we agree with the amendment to Article 5 tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. And I would just like to repeat once again what was the basic objective of this law, which is the application of the single current value of pension, in calculating and harmonising all pensions or ensuring the equal position of all users in relation to the harmonisation of pensions, which is also the intensity of this proposal of amendments and additions, and what is really going to continue to be implemented by the Retirement Act, and later and everything else that will follow in the pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22057	Thank you. Replica was reported by MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22058	Thank you very much. Mr. President. One minute and eight seconds to explain the law that weighs 800 million kuna, to explain the law that introduces inequality, the intransparency of the law that is completely unnecessary because this is not the aim of the law to determine a single calculation of pension but is the law that goes in order to achieve the promise made in the tent in Sava. And that you were fair then you could read the law as we read it all the time, and that's that when the situation in the country is bad, when our GDP falls, when we don't have a budget growth, when we have a big deficit in the budget that those who get pensions from that budget should share the fate of that budget. And that those who receive pensions from our salaries should share the fate of those salaries. So, grow or fall with those salaries. I repeat again, whether on purpose or not, but I believe on purpose, that avoiding conflicts with defenders did not clearly interpret the law which says, if GDP increases above 2% over three quarters, and we already have that, if the budget deficit is less than 3%, then the government decides to increase these pensions. Instead of 1.1% you could have put in two, you could have put in three if you had money, but you don't have money to pay off Christmas cards, you don't have money to pay off the regress, you've dropped your negotiations on raising the basics, and that's what you need to say. You don't have jobs, you don't have professors, you don't have doctors, but you have for this category of pensioners who don't need them right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-07-0.u22059	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met, with a few notifications, now I am very sorry, I am sad that there is no Mr. Stazic here to make him happy along with other parliamentary deputies, as they will be working on Friday and Saturday. So Friday in nine and a half will be a vote to supplement the agenda and the debated points, the agenda would also be complemented by a draft budget. On Saturday at 9.30 p.m., we will continue the plenary session and the debate will be held on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, tomorrow we will continue to work, tomorrow the work will be the first point of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. Here you go. ... We will agree with representatives of the representatives' clubs even though it is not excluded and that we will work on Monday. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Thank you. Next is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Pension Insurance Act, please representatives of Bulja, pension insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.35. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representatives accepted the amendment of the Committee and it became an integral part of the final draft law. In accordance with Article 202. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the final proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 85 for, 14 abstentions and 26 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act.
