ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17968	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club. I want to talk about illegal exit fees that banks charge for temporary credit payments. These are some new knowledge we only came to know about a month ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17969	Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17970	Thank you, Mr. President. Given that there has been a dispute or conflict in public for several days between the government and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia with extremely difficult qualifications, I am looking for a 10 minute break because I think not only the President of the Parliament as the head of one party but the Parliament needs to say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17971	Representative Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17972	I, on behalf of the club, want a break of 10 minutes, want to talk about the latest cases of employment in HEP by the Croatian People's Party and the Kukuriku Coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17973	Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17974	Mr. President of the SDP Club is looking for a break for the same reason as Pupovac's representative asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17975	Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17976	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS Club is looking for a break on the same topic that the MOST Club was looking for means employment in HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17977	Thank you. If there are no other breaks requests, I'll set a 10-minute break. Thank you. It's 9:00.45. CONTINUED AFTER MEETING at 10.00 P.M. Dear MPs, the MPs continue to work. The first to take a break was the House of Representatives' Club Live Wall, SNAGA and their representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17979	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We've found another reason to talk about banks. Namely, Croatian banks charge illegal exit fees for early repayment of loans. I have proof that this is the case, and this is the final judgment of the County Court in Vukovar, which confirmed the first-degree judgment of the Municipal Court in County, which requires HYPO Bank to pay the client back the early payment of the loan, because the bank has no right to charge any damages it has suffered due to early payment of the loan. In fact, the bank believes that in the case of early repayment of the loan, there is some damage, so she agreed with the debtor to charge him an exit fee on the bank's tariff. These tariffs are usually between 1 and 4%, the remaining principal. So it must not be charged, it should not be charged, it must not be charged, and it will not be charged in the future. On its website, Franak published a template on which any debtor who has already paid an early payment of his credit may request that the bank return that amount to him in a peaceful manner, and if the bank does not pay him in a peaceful manner, then any such debtor could sue the bank and demand that amount which he should never have paid and should not have paid, but in that case he would have received a tightened interest on the total amount of the advance. It's about the baseless profit of the bank because the bank actually considers its out-of-date profit to be some kind of damage. So getting out of the bank isn't a pity for the bank. If the early payment of the bank's credit is not allowed to charge the exit fees, it is agreed. The final judgment of the County Court in Vukovar is actually a relevant case law. If we were living in some kind of Anglo-Saxon system of law, such a powerful verdict would actually be a precedent that all other courts would then have to apply in their caselaw. However, we do not have a precedent but we have a case-law, so any debtor who would require the refund of the amounts paid because he paid the exit fee he was not to pay may be called to the County Court's ruling in Vukovar as a relevant case-law. There is doubt that the bank's entry fees are illegal. In fact, banks charge entry fees of between 1% and 2% in the course of the loan contract. These entry fees are not based on anything. The banks have their jobs, they have their lawyers, they have their economists, they have people doing business with clients, so these people have their salaries. In the event of a loan agreement, the bank has no extraordinary cost. All the extraordinary costs of the loan contract are paid and the debtor, for example Real estate assessment, it's solemnisation and some other costs. The entry fee is also in my deep conviction and by the belief of all the people I have talked to about who understands the illegal fee. The German Supreme Court, which has already established in Germany that all the entry fees paid by banks to its clients by the banks in the course of the loan contract are illegal and unscathed. So in Germany, banks had to pay their debtors an entry fee. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I no longer know what's legal in banking business. Wherever the finger is pointed in their contracts, almost every contractual provision that matters which is the essential ingredient of the contract turns out to be illegal. My colleagues from MOST and HDZ, I expect your help and that we finally end the illegal business of banks. I know that the end of the year can't do it quickly now, but I expect you to help me with the legal changes, first of all we find that the banks have to agree with the debtors of the initial fixed margin with all those with whom they haven't agreed, and try to find a way for all debtors to get paid back the amount of interest because there are powerful judgments in that sense, so these judgments can be the basis for legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17980	I thank Representative Aleksic. The next Club of Representatives who called for a break is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and their representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17981	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For several days now, we have been able to read, hear, see the opinion expressed by a member of the government and the internal affairs in charge of which the Republic of Croatia Constitutional Court is the most risky place for the country's national security. Long if we ever had a chance to hear that one of the representatives of one body of government characterises the state of the other body of power, as this is, and I think that's a serious reason for this House to commit to that matter. Minister Orepic, namely him, said in an interview that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is the biggest threat to the national security of the Republic of Croatia. If the interior minister says so, that's what attention should be paid to. The relevant Committee on National Security and the Competent Committee on the Constitution and the political system of the Republic of Croatia may pay this attention. That's where the interior minister should be heard. If there is knowledge that the rest of us do not have, then it is necessary to share them with us because we are the ones who choose the constitutional judges of the Republic of Croatia. They are not elected by the government, not by members of the government, but by the Croatian Parliament and its representatives. On the other hand, if the interior minister has knowledge that is within the scope of criminal or criminal persecution, it is primarily his duty to do so in accordance with the rules prescribed by the law. And that means, if he has grounds, he needs to report it as an individual. Otherwise, we will have a conflict between the two institutions in the country, between the highest pillar of constitutional protection, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Such conflict is neither common nor acceptable, and the Assembly should do everything in this regard to the absence of such conflict, and if there are any grounds for such serious claims as the minister said then the competent working bodies mentioned, the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on National Security, should discuss and consult and thereafter inform the Bureau of the Committee on Findings. The minister may not have made a mistake in the contents of what he's saying. We don't know that, but he certainly made a mistake in a way. Imagine another situation where the Secretary of Defense would make that kind of accusation. On many occasions we have talked here about the need to protect institutions and stop further deinstitutionalisation of the country. The biggest possible threat to institutionalisation is the fragile institutions in our country, however, are this kind of communication between the government representatives and the Constitutional Court. The Council of the Republic of Croatia needs to say something in this regard, and I therefore call on the representatives of the working bodies to take over their commitment and stop this kind of debate or channel it to the institutions in charge. This is not what public media are in charge of.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17982	I would like to thank Mr. Pupovac. I propose that since there were two groups of topics, one is about the Constitutional Court, the other is about possible employment or past employment, that the SDP's Club of Representatives should be, but since Mr Popovac spoke about the Constitutional Court, that the next be the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Okay? Their representative, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17983	Thank you, Mr. President. The minister of the interior of the Republic of Croatia, the head of the state's repressive apparatus, accused a state institution of being a threat to the national security of the Republic of Croatia. That should be made clear and loud. The Minister of the Interior had no objection to one person from that institution. The interior minister questioned the integrity of the entire institution's work, and then went a step further and accused the entire Croatian judiciary of corruption and that it must pass through catharsis. Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia who has not initiated any proceedings. Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia who does not do his job. Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia who hid in the mouse hole when it was due to go to Jasenovac and remove the panel from which the fundamental settings of the Republic of Croatia are insulted, from which inappropriate messages are sent. Minister of the Interior, I'm going to do it one more time, and it needs to be kept repeating, which doesn't do its job. But what's he doing? He goes to the weekly paper, goes to the daily newspapers and muds. We will send a brief and clear message today: Ministers, or do your job, initiate the procedure, remove persons who are threatening the national security of the Republic of Croatia, or resign. There's no third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17984	Thank you, Agent Grbino. The next club of representatives is the Club of Representatives of MOSTA Independent Lists, their representative, Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17985	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just the introduction before I begin to present on the subject I wanted to ask only Mr. Grbin, when they voted on the meeting of the Constitutional Court judges, who were they voting for for Mr. Dolović or Mr. Mlakar? So for the sake of our interest, the Croatian public will explain who is actually sitting there in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17986	Representative Kristic, I would ask you to talk about the subject you have announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17987	Yes, thank you. A few days ago, I read in one of my replicas a longer list of HEP management personnel set up by the Croatian People's Party and the Kukuriku coalition, of course I did it at the time that I was allowed a replica of 2 minutes. And that's when I said I could exhibit on behalf of the club so I wouldn't make it. At that time, we thought we'd stop at it, but this morning's case of scandalous employment in HEP, where on account and over the back of the Croatian defender, a nephew of one of the directors invited me to continue and read this list. Of course, this list that I am about to read is not final because even now, as we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament, competitions are being published in HEP, so the names are always coming up, so I will probably have to read the new list again at one of the next sessions. In fact, because of this kind of staffing in HEP today, we have this problem in the energy sector and the millions of problems that go to the burden of Croatian citizens. Well, let me just read it to you if, of course, this break that I have allowed me to do, a few names. Pero Josipovic Commissioner for Ethics HEP distribution system operator, member of the HNS presidency of Zagreb County. Tihomir Matić, spokesman for the Elektrojuga Dubrovnik, is also the only spokesman for some local HEP plant, a member of the HNS of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. I just got a message that he was transferred to the waterworks. Valentin Dujmović, Director of Vodavoda in Dubrovnik, was the director of almost all urban utility companies, began in HEP, an expert in all, was president of the Youth of the HNS. Vedran Kunica Director of Sanitat city company, member of HNS youth. Lidija Gredicak, employed in the public procurement sector at the age of 62, was a town council member of the HNS and now only a member of the party. Mijat Nimac, a 62-year-old employee of the Benkovac plant, is a member of the HNS Zadar county organisation's presidency. Vesna Sabol and the head of the office of the director of Elektra Zadar, left HEP on July 1st and became HNS's parliamentary representative. Mario Dropulic, head of the Ston plant office and president of the Ouzen HNS, travels from Opuzen to work every day 100 km. Snježana Holovka, head of the Pijajčino plant office in Peljesac and president of the HNS Women's Initiative Metkovic, previously worked in the city waterway as a billing reference. Petar Budish, director of Elektra Virovitica, named at the age of 62, was a member of the SDP at the time of employment but left the party. Vesna Moskon, an employee of the human potential sector and member of the HNS County Presidency Koprivnica. Sasa Dujmic, director of Elektra Split and member of Split-Dalmatia HNS. Dubravko Balaška Director of Elektra Križ, he is an existing case of HEP, which has surfaced at the leading post of the arrival of the Kukurik coalition president of the HNS branch. Mladen Hren Director of Elektra Čakovec, HNS-ovac from the municipality of Šenkovec, who has been in HEP for 30 years, Izidor Alfirević sympathiser of HDZ, member of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Airlines, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, SDP, member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for Retirement of Retirement. Zdenko Antešić SDP is a member of the Plovdiv Assembly. Tomislav Barada is the head of the HNS branch of Seget, president of the Hand Management Council of the Oil Agency. Damir Baric SDP, president of the Virovitica General Hospital, is the president of the Virovitica General Council. Tihomir Barisić SDP, chairman of the local committee Novi Zagreb East and member of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Roads, Hubert Bašić HNS director of HEP, renewable energy sources. Goran Becker SDP member of the main committee of the party, member of the Supervisory Board of Croatia Airlines. Maria Bilman HNS, president of the party branch of Novska, member of the JANAF Supervisory Board. Veran Blazek HNS, a lawyer from Osijek, a member of the National News Supervisory Board. Rade Bobanac, SDP president of the Youth and City Committee SDP Vrgorac and member of the SDP Board, and member of the Supervisory Board of the Plovput. Predrag Bogičević HNS, member of the Management Board of the Fund for Finance, Decommissioning and Nuclear Power Plant Krško. Josip Borak HNS Chairman of the Management Council of the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre. Stanko Boris HNS, a former journalist, a member of the National Journals Supervisory Board. Vladimir Borzan, SDP's husband, Biljana Borzana, a member of the KBC Osijek Sanjay Council. Goran Bosnjak, SDP head of the Vukovar SDP, member of the Water Roads Agency's governing council. Željko Bagarić SDP council member of Osijek-Baranja County, member of the Supervisory Board of the "Golden Hands" Osijek. Tomislav Bukša HNS is a member of the Croatian Shipbuilding Supervisory Board. Juraj Buksa, HNS president of the party's river branch, member of the HEP Supervisory Board, Angelko Bunetta SDP, director of the FINA. Teddy Chiavalon IDS, member of the party presidency, member of the ACI Supervisory Board, Marija Cesarik SDP Assistant Minister of Health, chairman of the KBC Board of Supervisors. Igor Cigula, president of the HAC Supervisory Board, friend of Minister Sinisha Hajdas-Doncic of Zagorje. Mato Church SDP, former Finance Minister and Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of Podravka. Radovan Cvek HHS, member of the Central Committee of the Party, member of Plinarroa Management Marija Cacic, wife of Radiir Cacic, member of the Supervisory Board of Croatia Airlines. [[The President's intrusion: I would ask the MPs to be patient.]] Nada Čavlović SDP, member [[Adversity President: Maro Christich, MP, please, it's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17988	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs, I'd like you to stick to the order. I'd like to ask if you can bear the comments so we can move on. Representative Kristic, please. And also when you give half a minute to other MPs, I understand you can warn but take 10 seconds more. The next club is the HNS club, HSU which requested a break and on their behalf representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17989	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and colleagues. So I don't have a serious comment on this list, but I have the first name Tomislav Sheric. Tomislav Seric, president of the Croatian Power Agency, was a year old, did not result in good results and we replaced him, a member of the MOST, after which he was appointed by Minister Panenic to the Končar Supervisory Board. ... Sherić Tomislav appointed by your colleague Minister Panenic as the Supervisory Board of Končar and you now list him as our ear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on, Krešo Komljenović, for the first time since Croatia's independence, the public sector has won an innovation award of the year, a director who has not registered an innovation in his name to earn but on behalf of the Croatian electricity industry has won a silver medal in Geneva for innovation, an innovation of the year in Croatia, a Croatian electricity industry, a public sector and a director who is HNS's ear. So people have quality criteria, results. And thank you, colleague Kristic, for counting 40 HNS employees of 11 thousand HEP employees. By 2,000 HEP employees, we have reduced the number of employees in our mandate, and out of these 11 thousand are the remainder of these 40 when we single out 10 960 HEP employees, so we will count the blood cells that are the number of HDZs, which is the number of former HSS, Labourists or possibly MOST-asa, as well as a good part of the MOST representatives have changed many parties, including Maru Kristic. However, further analysis of this list is groundless. What's under consideration, that last time someone listed people like this is Goebbels, they're fascists. What are we gonna do? Are we going to kill people on the street if someone is a Serb, if someone is a member of a party or are we going to respect the Croatian Constitution and that everyone has equal rights? Or we will use the criteria that a man who lists such a list should be pursued by people on the street because I have never done it to HDZ or to the SDP or any other political option but we will list how this Maro Kristic was the head of 2010 on the insistence of Stipa Gabric Jambe in the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska. After that, the arrest when he could not be the head of the County Assembly was the adviser of your fellow mayor Dobrovic. Because you are not embarrassed and ashamed to then protect yourself with your friend and colleague, the current president of the Assembly, from prosecution, by not removing immunity because you have damaged the County Assembly. Is that the human criterion? Why are you counting that? You think we didn't know that, you think we didn't know, you don't think we know that Bozo Petrov got 3,000 marks of conservative for his doctorate in a strange illegal way? You think we don't know that from before? It is to preserve the dignity of this person as well as the dignity of all HEP employees because it is a public enterprise. Let us guard and honor our people who are appointed there Qualification, result, qualification of reference and result, counting of blood cells is not a way. [[I'd like to pray, please.]] Ask your colleague Simic how he communicated with me while you formed? Ask your colleague Panenic why he put the pizza master on Cončar's board on behalf of MOST as a member of the Most? Well, you're not embarrassed. Maro Kristic's biggest earring in Dubrovnik-Neretva County has a moral right after 4 or 5 changed parties come here and work out a list of people like Goebbels. So how come people don't make you uncomfortable? Guard the institution, guard this coat of arms, keep the citizens who give the result, keep the citizens who are now employed by HEP at the end of the line. Because HNS is always focused on responsibility and results. Yeah, that's what happened in HEP. [[Applause.]] And the madness that Pupovac launched that Minister Orepic, who was now and now in the coalition with HDZ, could question the quality of the justice system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17990	Representative Vrdoljak would like you to stick to the subject as I have warned Maru Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17991	I'm sticking to the subject. It's the same thing about personneling, and you're the one who took it. This is the MOST's staffing in the ministries. Orepic puts a questionnaire on Croatian arbitration. Our main argument in arbitration is that we had a fair trial. It cannot happen that the minister does not go and defend Croatia's interests at the Interpol Assembly because he deals with abuse of institutions or what he does. And it cannot happen to put a questionnaire under the quality of Croatian justice because it will cost us 5 billion kuna. And don't be surprised if we lose our arbitration tomorrow because you're doing everything you can to take off the dignity of Croatian institutions and to make sure that at the expense of those accusations we're getting from MOL you confirm in this institution and then pay it in billions of kuna after that. Shame on you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17992	I'd just ask because, bravo, since you didn't stick to the subject, but no problem, I let you say it all the way. Before we continue on the agenda, since you called me and I think he has a right to speak. I'm glad you mentioned the famous as you said the strange 3,000 marks, so here's the clear word, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to say that in front of everyone at the moment that the people of the service were dealing with me for six months before we even came to the parliamentary elections and ask whose elections they were, at which point they tried... That I'm right, I'm right because you called me... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you can give me a replica, you're welcome to pick it up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since you found that time, since you then found out that the Institute of Health Insurance as well as all the students, freely as all the students gave the opportunity, gave me the possibility of a doctorate scholarship, since then you saw that he was HDZ's nephew, I then said a nice sentence "It's the same as saying that the mayor gives me a salary as mayor because the SDP was then in the state government."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17993	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. So you can't comment, discuss with the MP, you have to leave the session to the deputy and then you can get involved and report for discussion. So the Rules of Procedure won't allow you to discuss it, because that's why you denied the representative the right to reply to your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17994	I also made it possible for him, and I made it possible for him if he wanted a replica. The next representative who, first of all, are injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17995	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague of Vrdoljak A colleague, Vrdoljak, injured Article 238, Article 6, where he had deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly where he called the parliamentary deputies to be fascists here, to call on the blood cells who is a Serb who is this, which is a notorous lie, which is notorious fiction and does not have the right parliamentary representative to put in the mouth of other parliamentary deputies to count blood cells because simply in this Goebbels way you cannot direct what you have thought and what you have done for the last five years. [[Adversity President: The breach of the Rules of Procedure which he raised the moment you were exposed.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17996	Thank you. And a representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17997	Thank you, Mr. President. You've injured two articles of the Rules of Procedure. You have injured Article 248. The Rules of Procedure when you disregarded the provision after the break: that after the presentation of the representative of the club, you were not allowed a replica, but you were replicating the esteemed colleague Vrdoljak, and after that you also injured Article 236. The Rules of Procedure when you did not interrupt your colleague Bulj, because he took his breach of the Rules of Procedure to the presentation of his colleagues, Vrdoljak, and in the meantime you made your stand. Therefore, you have already referred as chairman to the presentation of representatives in which case other further infringements of the Rules of Procedure which refer to what you have said are not permitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u17998	Thank you to Agent Grbino and just a brief explanation. Since I have looked back and confessed to that only mistake that I should have made first to have Representative Bulj manifested himself through the violation of the Rules of Procedure which he had raised at the moment when MP Vrdoljak was already speaking. But after that, I gave the right advantage because of my review of the MP's reasoning on the subject. Thank you. The next item is Selection, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Antu Sanader to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22228	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee for the selection, appointment and administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Members of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament Maro Kristic, Željko Raguž and Ivan Šipić are dismissed, and the members of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Marija Balić, Ljubica Lukačić and Dr Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22229	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find it unanimous with 109 votes for the decision taken as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22230	A member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Davora Romić, a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Dr Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22231	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously, with 115 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22232	A solution is proposed for members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament Marijana Balić and Ljubica Lukačić, and Marija Jelkovac and Željka Josic are proposed for members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22233	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22234	The Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Representatives proposes: for members Boris Lalovac, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, Grozdana Perić, and for alternate members Marijana Balić, Bozica Makar and Dragica Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22235	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 109 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against, have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22236	Vedran Babić, Recajmir Varda and Ante Sanader are proposed for members of the Committee on Stocks of the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22237	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Stocker's Council. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously, with 113 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22238	Decision appointing the president and ending the term of office of President of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic. For the Chairman of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović is proposed: Andro Krstulović Oprah, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Dr Gordana Rusak, former chairman of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović. The President's term of office ceased on 14 October 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22239	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of president and termination of the term of office of President of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22240	Decision appointing a member of the Public Institution Council to mention the Jasenovac area. As a member of the Public Institution Council, the area of Jasenovac is mentioned. As a member of the Public Institution Council, the area of Jasenovac is proposed by Željka Josic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22241	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Public Institution Council to mention the Jasenovac area. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote, 111 votes in favour, without abstentions and one against, have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22242	Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency. For a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency in the order of parliamentary representatives, Damir Felak, member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed. On 19 October 2016, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency of Parliament's representatives stopped acting as Dr Goran Maric for the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22243	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of a member and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22244	Decision on the selection of three members of the Island Council. For members of the Eastern Council of the Croatian Assembly representatives: Branko Bačić, Josip Boric, Ivan Klarin are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22245	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to elect three members of the Island Council. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously, with 113 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22246	Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. A member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Anton Kliman, is hereby dismissed as a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Marijana Balic is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22247	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22248	Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. A member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union, Marijana Balić, is hereby dismissed, and Zeljka Josic, a member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed to the Interparliamentary Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22249	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously, with 109 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board. The next item is choice, appointment and resolution. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Antu Sanader to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22251	Thank you, Mr. President. The selection committee proposes a decision on the discharge of the deputy member and the appointment of a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Orsat Milenić, is hereby dismissed, and as deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is named Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22252	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that with 105 votes for, 2 abstentions and no votes against decisions made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22253	Since we spent almost 4 hours on this important topic for the Croatian people and all sorts of Croatian citizens, then we will move on to one much less important law final proposal of the Law on Local Elections, another reading, P.Z.BR.8. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22254	Mr. Vice-President of the SDP Club is asking for a 10-minute recess to be consulted on the debate under this important law as you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22255	Go ahead. You got it. I'll see you at 16.10. I suggest we continue not to go too late. So now it's our turn to make a final bill... Yeah, on behalf of the club. [[You can't hear it.]] Done. I thought you expeditionically dealt with it already. Here's a distinguished representative of the Peja Grbin on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22256	Dear colleagues and colleagues, during the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, we asked whether this law applies to Mr Vlahusic or not, and pointed out that the authors of the law were wrong because they disturbed the fact that in 2010 when the criminal act in question was committed, the sentence was not a punishment, but a precautionary measure and that it was not in the reach of this law. Today, we have received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the law in question from which it is clear, explicit and unequivocal that this bill is aimed only and exclusively at removing Mr. Andru Vlahusic from the race for the Mayor of Dubrovnik. Well, that's an open-minded thing to say. Every time we pointed out your mistakes and failed to sanction Mr. Vlahusic, you were changing something. Well, given the above, we have no intention of participating in the debate on this law. Vote him, and the Constitutional Court will make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22257	Thank you very much. So, we will now discuss - Final proposal of the Law on Local Elections, second reading, P.Z. No. 8. Proposer: Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridges on the basis of Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 190. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to you in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The government delivered an opinion and submitted amendments. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22258	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Ministry of Justice. Here today we had plenty of opportunities to discuss the issue of moral responsibility, so we started early this morning with the problem of the Constitutional Court where some of the MPs asked for the resignation of our Minister Orepic, calling for moral responsibility that he must launch an investigation for those spoken words. If he doesn't initiate an investigation, he should resign as Home Secretary. Today, we have also discussed a banal crime which is why one of our representatives is being stripped of immunity today, that is, the next time it is voted in this House. We are now discussing that those who have been stealing from 25 recent years are systematically stealing from the Croatian state and those who are convicted of the most serious crimes banned from running in the elections for units of local, regional and regional self-government. I am sorry that fellow SDP and Kukuriku MPs of the coalition and the HNS will not participate in this debate. But probably because they have no arguments against passing one of these laws. These arguments could not be made either in the first reading, nor are they ready to participate in this debate today. So before us is the Law on Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which passed the regular procedure of first reading in the Assembly, the debate process on the web. He received the support of the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and, in addition to the amendment of the Government relating to the regulation of a double catalogue of criminal offences, is today in front of us. In the process of first reading the law, as I said, there were no more significant proposals by the MPs who discussed the bill, and only GONG and one natural person appeared within the time limit left for discussion through the web. GONG has sought even more stringent provisions regarding the ban on running. And one natural person who made his proposals, however, did not refer to the measure of the law that we are changing. Compared to the first reading, amendments were introduced to the catalogue of criminal offences in a way that prescribed a double catalogue of criminal offences by KZ '97. and the KZ 2011 so that all those who committed crimes covered by one KZ and the other KZ would be covered by this law. At the same time, the law extends to the period of rehabilitation, so the ban on running concerns the period of execution and the period of rehabilitation. A single provision has also been introduced as a ban on running, and that is a fine of power including a conditional sentence of at least 6 months relating to the execution of the sentence and the period of rehabilitation. In relation to the issue of issuing criminal records for the purposes of running, the Ministry of Justice will in time provide all the professional and technical capacities necessary to carry out these tasks. And finally, this bill respects all the instructions of the Constitutional Court and all their judgments. And, of course, if it comes to the assessment of his constitutionality, we're sure that he will endure that assessment, and Mr. Grbin's remarks regarding the law being applied to one person absolutely do not stand. This is a law that addresses the issue of moral responsibility. He is one substitute for the issue of moral responsibility, which unfortunately does not exist in Croatian politics. Unfortunately, we still have a situation on the Croatian political scene to continue to run for convicted persons and those convicted of the most serious crimes, especially that criminal act that I find most difficult in relation to the duty of a politician, which is a crime against official duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22259	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion on the amendments tabled? Yeah. The Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Ms. Maya Grubisin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22260	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not object to the adoption of the proposed law submitted by the Association of Independent Lists Representatives, with the Government proposing to make appropriate amendments and supplement the proposed text as we have now heard. This legislative proposal lays down obstacles to running for a member of the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government and to the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy, to which a certificate of data on criminal record is issued, which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and not of the courts. The catalogue of criminal offences representing an obstacle to running must therefore be determined or it must contain the exact names of criminal offences, calling for articles that have entered into force on 1 January 2013, as well as the former applicable Criminal Code. In accordance with all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution and Article 196. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall submit two amendments to the final draft law in question. The first amendment lays down the names of criminal offences under the applicable Penal Code as well as the retention of the catalogue of criminal offences under the earlier applicable law. The second amendment lays down the obligation to obtain a certificate of criminal record data in order to establish, in accordance with that amendment, the existence or absence of an obstacle to running in local elections. So much for the government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22261	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And the first came to the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished Marko Šimic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22262	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. As I pointed out in the debate when I first read this bill of law, which is proposed is a clearly visible objective which these amendments want to achieve. This objective is to protect the integrity of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local (regional) and regional self-government, as well as the municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and their deputies. The aim is also to increase voter confidence in the representative and executive bodies of local self-government units. Since the first reading also passed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Election of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it is clear that the proposal for equalising the criteria for the obstacle to running at all levels of government, which is another argument that we are not talking about a law that is passed by ad-hominem. As the Honorable counterpart Grbin said in his presentation after the break they requested on behalf of the club, this law does not, according to his professional opinion, include the man for which they are calling the applicant to actually pass this law. During the period between the first reading and the second reading, public consultation was held through the website of the Croatian Parliament. A thematic session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system was held. The session was a somewhat broader topic, the election legislation was discussed in the Republic of Croatia, the debate was held in two remaining committees of interest to the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Opinions and conclusions, together with proposals to improve the law, were submitted to the applicant. The HDZ advocates' club gave its proposals through a debate in the first reading. We believe that by respecting suggestions and suggestions through a debate on a second reading in a particular section, the Proposer improved both content and nomotechnically improved this bill, he improved the final draft of the law, and made this law certainly clearer both in a certain part and better. The comments of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and other committees as well as the similar observations made through the debate by representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the GONG in the framework of the public consultation by further considering the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 24 September 2015. Namely, the Constitutional Court warned that when introducing the name of a criminal offence, it would avoid quoting the Penal Code in view of the predictable amendment to criminal law. We therefore consider it a good fact that the applicant in the formation of a catalogue of criminal offences which means an obstacle to running for elections is guided by reference to the protective object of a criminal offence. It is important to note that, through an opinion expressed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed certain amendments which, according to the position of our club, further clarify or further make certain offences in that catalogue proposed by this legislative amendment. During the discussion by committees, it became evident that the catalogue of criminal offences would be a matter likely to be complemented and modified or subject to corrections during a certain period of time, but it is necessary to start applying this law in order to see things that need to be further improved. In considering this final proposal for a law, certain difficulties have been observed in determining the degree of guilt, the purpose or reason of committing a criminal offence, as the applicant states for the purpose of obtaining property benefit. Given that the courts in the Republic of Croatia do not keep records of the way the work would be done, it will be difficult to be seen from that record for the purpose or reason of the initiation. We expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice, will regulate the majority or determine how all the necessary information can be collected to determine the obstacles to the candidacy in order to bring this law to life in the full, it has achieved its objectives with which it has calculated from the very beginning of the proposal for this law in the first reading. As far as the HDZ Representatives' Club is concerned, we will support this final bill and support it and vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22263	Thank you. On behalf of the representative of the Most, the honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22264	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of Justice. Let me first of all, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST and I regret the decision by SDP MPs not to participate in this debate and that they have left the Assembly without having discussed this final draft law on the Committee on the Constitution, although it has also been stated by SDP MPs that they have certain suggestions for the extension of the Catalogue of Criminal Cases listed in this final draft of the law. We also expected in the debate to possibly submit a certain amendment. Let me first say that this final bill proposal is specific to one fact that I would particularly like to highlight, which is the fact that this final bill has passed a full procedure, not only two readings in this House but also a consultation with the interested public, I would say as the first legal proposal of one club of representatives who, as such, was published on the Croatian Parliament's website, was open to consultation with the interested public between the first and second readings. And that's one newspaper that wasn't present in earlier terms. We expect that the other draft laws referred to by the representatives' clubs will also pass the same procedure. Well, we now have a series of draft laws that are addressed to the parliamentary procedure, but are not open to consulting interested public. Those who properly criticized us that the legal proposals we make should pass this procedure should respect their own criticism. The counseling has shown that this law is necessary. The NGO GONG, which deals particularly with the issues of electoral legislation, has positively assessed both the purpose and the intention of this legislative proposal and made certain useful suggestions regarding the definition of catalogues of criminal offences. The fact is that this is also the most difficult aspect of the regulation that we have provided for this legislative proposal. So how best to define crimes that are an obstacle to running in local elections. In this regard, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the light of its efforts to define this catalogue as possible and as carefully as possible not with the intention to define in any way the legal provisions so as to identify any individual in them, but to ensure that these legal provisions are unequivocal in the application of all those serious offences that are important to us to define as an obstacle to running and to pass the constitutional test. We cannot speak in advance of the Constitutional Court, would these legal provisions be passed in a test of proportionality. We consider that. We are confident that we have done so with the intention that these provisions will not in any way be questionable from the position of constitutionality, given that an extraordinary number of people will be running in the upcoming local elections. It's hard for us to even say, but we can probably talk about a few dozen thousand people who will run in all municipalities, cities and counties. So here we can't talk about a small number of individuals, this is about a huge number of people who will have to obtain a certain belief that they are against, that they are not convicted of a certain crime that will be mentioned in this law. We want to make it clear that it may have been more logical to first prescribe this for the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but given that the local elections ahead in May next year, we had to put this law in the process so that it would be voted by the end of this year and that the competent state authorities could prepare for the application of this law, and of course what it suggested, that a catalogue of criminal acts such as this must also be provided for in the Law on Elections of Representatives. He's a lot different now than he's supposed to be with this bill of ours. And secondly, as we know, the Constitutional Court has also assessed part of that catalogue as unconstitutional. However, it should also be borne in mind that, in the meantime, the composition of the Constitutional Court has changed significantly, therefore, in relation to the composition of that time, we now have ten new constitutional judges, and any appeal, and even to a decision that was then the Constitutional Court, it does not have to mean that the new Constitutional Court, in the new constitution, will in the same way observe the Catalogue of Criminal Crimes and the legislator's intention to regulate this issue of a ban on running in the manner provided for by this final draft law. We have consulted even relevant international normative activity on this issue in the drafting of this final bill. Interestingly, last year, a report by the Venice Commission on exclusion from the Parliament of convicted persons has also been published, so there is a report which is a kind of build-up of constitutional and legal norms of individual Member States of the Council of Europe, which discusses how states regulate the issue and prohibitions of individual candidates in a specific case for a legislative body. So what we prescribe here, even though for the representative bodies of local self-government, it is of course to regulate it at a higher level, therefore, of the highest representative body of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. But it is quite doubtless that the denial of public service can be prescribed either by the Constitution or by law. And as the Venice Commission report adopted in October 2015 states, this is a legitimate goal for the proper functioning and preservation of the democratic order. So what we are doing is absolutely in line with the Venice Commission's report, it is absolutely in line with the code of good practice in electoral matters where it is also said that any ban on running in elections must be regulated by the Constitution, or by law, which we do. There are a number of countries that define in very different ways or prevent candidates in the elections for the representative body. The sentences are, therefore, criminal convictions are also very different or a time period of conviction for a certain criminal offence. In fact, there is no one normative and one solution. Some countries are much stricter than others. In some countries, any conviction for a criminal offence is sufficient. Certain serious criminal offences have been specifically prescribed in some cases, but there is no exclusive pattern. We have defined ourselves on the basis of all suggestions, based on a public debate, based on everything written and in the professional public between these two readings for the catalogue of criminal offences which is in this final proposal of the law. And bearing in mind the amendment of the Government, which will be declared by the Proposer when it is time to decide on the final draft of the law. We believe that it should be accepted and that it is a good guideline in the subsequent and subsequent regulation of the ban on running for persons for elections for the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22265	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22266	Thank you very much, President. My colleague Podolnjak and I wanted to say something about parallel practice with neighbouring countries. Namely, it would not be said that we here in the Croatian Parliament and as a club of promoters sucked this law out of our fingers, that it is the only such law. Namely, as you all know, Croatia is very low on the corruption scale, so it is one of the most corrupt countries in all the research. As far as parallel practices are concerned with similar laws in other countries of environment, this law is certainly amongst those who are the loosest. So there are many countries in the environment that have set themselves much more restrictively against the ban on running in the elections for local, regional and regional self-government. And I also wanted to express my regret in one way that my colleagues left the assembly because I think that their constructive proposals could have contributed to this debate. And as I recall, a colleague of the coat of arms was on the boards that I took part in, and I had some constructive suggestions that could only improve it, and I'm sorry that they tried to point out that the law applies to only one person. There is absolutely no word about it, if that person attaches this law to his problem, he is a legally convicted person and precisely because of such a law is passed and that person also has another case against him at the moment and will soon be another indictment against him. And I don't know who he's protecting, I don't know why. If this were the case with real problems in Croatian society today, we would not have had an external debt if we had fought so hard for our economy and for our business as much energy was spent in the first reading to talk about one person. So at no point did we mention this one person and you mentioned it a thousand times and now you say the law doesn't apply to him and then you say that the law applies to him, so I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22267	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22268	Here's my thanks to fellow Kristic, but here's just an example of why I didn't tell you, a few states to see how others regulate a similar issue that we're discussing today. For example, there is a general ban on running regardless of the type of criminal offence and the length of the prison sentence in Estonia. In Israel, it's enough that you're sentenced to more than three months in prison. In Latvia, persons convicted of a criminal offence committed with intent cannot run. In Canada, a person convicted of corruption in the past five years cannot be a candidate. In Denmark, there cannot be a candidate for a person who has committed an act which in the public's eyes makes him an unworthy representative. There is always an unsuspecting reputation in Iceland, whatever it means legally and how the courts interpret it. In Cyprus, persons convicted of acts involving moral values such as honesty, honor and reputation. I have listed only a part of countries very rigorously defining and normatively prescribing the conditions for the ban on running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22269	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS MPs' club, a respected representative, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22270	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the representatives of the ministry. First I have to show, and I don't know what to say indignation that means all day this Parliament has been working since the morning supplementing agendas, breaks, parliamentary committees, all day we don't know whether this session will continue after that or not. So after everything at 4.15, the session continues with some miracle by this very law. What I must say is that the bottom of Croatia's policy is and it is expected that after this point we will continue to discuss the budget. So we're going to have one law that goes here ad hominem it's quite clear, and in the first attempt it didn't work out, so now it's done and it's done in the second attempt to make it look and budget as well in the dark as this bill is going to be discussed in the dark, cowardly. You're cowards. Don't laugh. This is the bottom of politics. The return of HDZ debt for some other concessions of MOST and your colleagues may be a shame to pass laws against persons who have actually served their sentences, who have paid their sentences and then to change the laws in a way to add little so that these people are under those laws and they are prevented from running. So why don't you run, Mr. Christic, with your abilities, strength, wisdom and beauty and defeat Mr. Vlahusic. Why don't you do it? But you abuse Parliament to get rid of a political opponent and I deeply hope that your voters will recognize it and will never choose you as mayor. This is the farce in which I came here just to say these few sentences and answer to the replicas I will not and I will also leave this assembly and what I am afraid to say after this debate will take part in and start a debate on the budget of the Republic of Croatia where I guess all the debates will be exhausted because one good part of the MP is gone. That's the problem of the Parliament's functioning, the problem of the Parliament's functioning that we don't know what we're going to do in this House this morning as the next item of the agenda. On several occasions, it was called from the board, from the secretariat, from clubs to wonder what would be done in the Parliament during the afternoon. There was no answer. I've been looking for this point and the application card for this point right now on this table, it was in the middle. Usually when the point is on the agenda, it's the first one in the front row. So it's to expect the budget to go, right? Who's going to talk about the budget and probably someone from the MOST and someone from HDZ. Thank you colleagues for this kind of democracy, in such democracy we will not participate with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22271	Thank you very much. I don't know who it was, but obviously it wasn't who it was that it was supposed to be because it was what order it was going to go to. He had a series of replicas but I don't know if it makes any sense now? ... In fact, here we go, the first of the distinguished representatives of Mare Kristic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22272	Well, I'm sorry that Mrs. Djuric has a problem with the fact that her working hours can last four hours. We learned that this Parliament could be held up to 10, 12, 24, so we must always be available. However, I remember that not long ago we had a situation here in the Croatian Parliament when we were shoeing people who had once put a Ustasha cap on their heads, so I remember that we were shoeing a man who had reported it was a false address just as soon as we ran those people out of Croatia. And now it's a problem to pass a law that prohibits law-abiding persons from running. It is one highlight of hypocrisy in Croatian society, and it is unfortunate that such people as Mrs Đurići come out and present in this way facts that have nothing to do with anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22273	Thank you. The next one came from the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22274	Dear Vice President, I'm sorry there's no colleague here that we actually have a chance to respond to these accusations she made at the expense of MOST and her colleagues from HDZ. In this law and this bill of ours, we have already had the opportunity to argue, so we have not been hiding from anyone, there has been controversy in the media whether this law is directed against Mr Vlahusic, and then it was said that MOST missed the target the first time, and the second time, and here it turned out, however, that this law hit Mr Vlahusic, and now they are retreating and saying that this law is intended solely for one person. No, this is a law intended for all those who have been convicted, who have sinned against the law and the fact that there are political parties running for such persons is their only problem. It can't be a problem for us who want to pass such a law. And let's remember, there were other laws that were meant for and aimed at only one person. Let us remember lex Perkovic, for example, the law that was passed and was passed by the government in which HNS participated to protect one person from persecution. Clearly, then, this team likes to protect those who have somehow sinned against the law or murder or theft or embezzlement. We're not you. I'm sorry that I can't understand that, but we don't want to deal with those, and we don't want those in politics to have any space. And we'll keep insisting on that, and we'll stand up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22275	I'd like to thank my representative, Grumoja. Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22276	Here's a thank you. I apologize for going along with this full - time Bible quote and for going with an almost religious attitude, which is that I cannot believe that we have in the House those most rigid political and state representatives as an instrument of legitimate violence. Because if we really want to keep the state in its democratic form, then we will deviate from the principle of legitimate violence. Because there is no other way to call it violence one form that we are trying to protect and defend the people who have been convicted, who have been convicted because they have abused the position and authority and at the same time expect us to preserve democracy. One who abuses position and power directly strikes and conditions against voters to choose him. And we can't talk about democratic choice because it's about employment, which are all the other instruments of breaking electoral will. And to the colleagues who left this assembly, I wish them all the best in a pool of political freedoms that only they enjoy and swim for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22277	Thank you, Representative Vučetić. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22278	Well, I'd like to send a message to my colleague's representative. Unfortunately, she's gone now, but here's a chance if she'll ever want to listen to her through any other media not live, and she had that chance. I begged her to stay, and that message was to agree on everything she said, that simply this debate that was supposed to be, she should have, or that point of debate, we should have known during the day that this debate was going to take place. And there was supposed to be that paper out there with the application card and that application was supposed to be on top of the left, and that application was lost somewhere in the middle. By the time you find it, it'll take you a few minutes to figure it out. And I think this is actually not a democratic procedure, because in these conditions we could vote the budget in theory. We could discuss the budget here and finish here. You can do the agenda without the knowledge of the other MPs. Sign up for a hearing. Here's a call for an open and co-worker of Bunjec to apply for a hearing. Then you can spend 30 laws like this in the afternoon. I invite you not to do this, to do it during normal morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22279	Agent Pernar, first of all, I'd like to ask you to report to the replica to stick to the subject. Second thing, next time I'm really gonna have to interrupt you. Second thing, the plenary session lasts all the time. Members of parliament in my view would be obliged to sit in their benches, not that we who wish to be on our jobs must adapt to those who do not want to sit in their workplace. It's their freedom to be here or not, and it's our right and our duty to work. And they show by their non-engagement how much they care about the work in the assembly. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22280	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. What I was going to say was mostly said by my colleagues to the relevant counterparts from the Croatian People's Party who unfortunately left. However, there is one thing that no one has mentioned and it is important to say. In fact, she accused us of doing the law for one person that we categorically denied. And his colleague Grmoja mentioned lex Perkovic which is just an example of the law that was made for one person. But nobody mentioned any other law that also got named after one person lex Cacic. You probably forgot about that law. It was very much spoken of in February 2015. Therefore, it was also the amendments to the Law on Elections of MPs when the ruling coalition of the Croatian People's Party and the SDP tried to install in the catalogue of criminal offences as a condition for the ban on running and that criminal act which caused Mr Cacic to be convicted and thus intending to prevent him from running for the Croatian Parliament. It was so public record that all the media on the bill wrote as lex Cacic. The pressure in the media and the public was so great that they eventually had to give up the legal provision after it was clear to everyone that the law was governed solely against one person. And it is therefore extremely inappropriate for the CNS representative to in this way impute such dishonest motives to the Most Representatives' Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22281	Thank you. The Live Wall Representatives Club applied for participation in the debate and on their behalf, representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22282	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I see today that almost all the colleagues from the Most are present in the debate and I am very pleased. The only thing I was sad about was that during the previous debate, not everyone was present, but there was, such times you probably had other obligations. I'm not just attacking you. They had committees, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22283	I'd like to ask if this doesn't turn into a debate, I'd like to ask the presentation of Agent Penar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22284	I would like to say that these amendments to the Law on Local Elections make our club unnecessary because it is already sufficiently regulated and we think that the law is already strict enough. And what's this about? A key detail of this law depends, in fact, not on someone's potential real objective guilt, meaning whether someone is guilty of something or not, but depends solely on whether someone is convicted or not. The fact that Ivo Sanader has no judgment against himself is evident. His trial hasn't started yet. He will be able to run in the local elections in the fifth month. Nadan Vidosevic, three years after the indictment, did not begin, let alone that there is a powerful verdict and Nadan Vidosevic will be able to run. The goddess Calmeta five years ago knew everything they knew today, only now was the indictment filed. When the trial begins, it is only God who knows whether a judicial judgment might eventually come. In other words, what I deeply doubt is this objectivity of our judiciary, and the law is directly related to that fact. It means whether the judiciary is objective or not because if the judiciary is objective if cases are handled impartially, if it works, judgments are made, it should not be disputed that people dealing with crime cannot run in the elections. However, we have a situation that people who are objectively involved in crime will be able to deal with elections, can run, etc., and some people who are neglected to say the crimes or damages they have caused will not be able to run. For this reason, I find it unnecessary, but what I find "weird" is the following, now it's relatively late, so time is running out, it's late in the afternoon, and during the morning session we didn't have this agenda. So there was a session of the Parliament, it was voted, I don't know how many 15, 14 points, there were discussions then a proposal came to the Mandate-Immunity Commission to discuss my immunity and I'm honestly going to tell you that after this many hours of agony that the session of the Parliament is over. And I came out of Parliament out of the belief that the debate was over and that's it. However, I accidentally returned to the Parliament and realized that some people were still talking and watching on TV, and then I realized that the debate was going on and that he was trying to spend these late afternoon hours having a debate about how to say the amendments to the Law on Local Elections another reading, and without anyone from the opposition being present, or to try quickly what was going on, say, all morning, consciousness in half an hour. So if I wasn't looking for this pay phone right now to talk, the debate would be over. In addition to my thesis, one thought testifies, here's a thought, and if we look at my left side of the assembly, there's not a single member of the SDP or the HNS in it. They all left the Parliament unaware of it, well some never came as, say, Mr Milanovic, but they had left earlier probably out of the belief that this debate today was over and at the moment when this new point was placed on the agenda they were not present here to speak their opinions, give their comments, etc., etc. I am sorry that during the debate of the previous point there was no more HDZ representatives, but what is there is, the debate is the way the agenda is as it is, it is not necessary for this obvious quorum, it is possible to say so without 76 MPs to put things on the agenda and in theory could be added to a few more in accordance with this point of the agenda. And we could today ten points of the agenda, ten laws of whatever, carry out simply all these discussions one after the other in what is said to be a trial and absence in absentia, means a representative of the opposition. At present, we are only three of us from the opposition here if I am not mistaken, it is Mr. Lovrinović and Bunjac, and I do not think enough time has been left for the amendments to be made because people can make amendments during the second reading. And the second reading started half an hour ago, and it was supposed to be over. So whoever wasn't in that speedy time period invested his eventual amendments he couldn't, he was simply excluded from the debate. So my contribution to this debate will be less in terms of the content of the debate itself, and more in its form that I find inadequate because, in my view, such important things as the amendments to the Law on Local Elections should be discussed, if nothing else in the morning or at 9.30 p.m. when we come to the Assembly, we should have that exact agenda in our order, so to speak, bring that agenda point in the morning at 9.30 p.m. so that we know about what's going to be on the agenda. ... /The Incursion President: Representative Pernar, if you could just give me a moment, I would ask you to stick to the topic. On the functioning of the Assembly and Assembly we can specifically, but I would ask you indeed, I waited two to three minutes, but if you can focus on the subject./... I think that we, as advocates, have actually not been sufficiently informed about the meaning of this bill's final proposal and that the process of adopting this law should be made more transparent for both the representatives and the public. 'Cause watch out! If the MPs don't know today about this debate, then what will the average man do? The average man in this debate is not even on TV, he couldn't even know that we're discussing it today. All in all, I think this is a very important law which, I repeat, will allow people like Ivo Sanader, Nadan Ivosevic to run in the elections, then whoever else comes to mind, Mr. Kalmet, Mr. Kirin. Mr. Kirin has even admitted, Mr. Mayor Virovitica Kirin, who has admitted to abuse of office and authority, and he will also be able to run in the elections. Milan Bandic, a man with no 300 criminal charges, will also be able to do so, but let's say Andro Vlahusic, who has objectively done less damage than all of them individually, multiple minor damages, he will not be able to run. Why? Because he's got a power of judgment, he hasn't run out of rehab, and everyone else doesn't have a judgment against himself yet. It's like a case for you to say that Dragan Paravinja raped and killed someone yesterday, that it was recorded on camera, that he's in prison, he could go to elections because he doesn't have a judgment against himself. In his case, we waited for the verdict. I mean, for almost five years. So the verdict fell because, as a factual description, it was incorrect, and it actually raises doubts about the integrity of the election process itself. So, at the end of the day, it's not about the scale of someone's guilt or his amount at all, it's just about whether he's got a judgment or not, and it's not about whether our judiciary is objective, whether our judiciary leads me to say so at a fair level, and from what I've experienced today, it seems to me that it's very possible to try to eliminate me from the election race. So it's cloudy methods. Not in a way, I say again, that it beats the candidates in the election, in my case in the local elections that I plan to run in the fifth month anyway. And I appeal to you once again, you HDZ gentlemen are now in the position of power, and you are making changes to the laws to which, watch your mind!, you will run against yours as an example. in Dubrovnik to eliminate, and your candidates like Calmeta and Kren, be careful, look what you put on the burden, that's the important thing, that's the important thing. Mr. Kalmeti is burdened by millions of damages, and in the case of Andra Vlahusic, the DORH eventually admits that the damages actually were not, but as if sending a message to the public, he was convicted. And that's where we actually come to this theater of absurdity, so in the case of Calmeta, the damage is astronomical, in the case of Kirina from Virovitica, the man admitted to abuse of position and authority, he admitted that he did damage. The damage is real, but there's no judgment. And for this reason, I propose that a small, small change be made in this law, and this amendment is as follows: that the application of this law on additional criminal offences which are disputed be applied from the date of entry into force of the law, or from the day of its publication in the National Journal. In this way you will clearly know that this law really applies only to future cases, not to the goal of only one case. If I'm not mistaken, there's only one person in Croatia who's going to be disabled in the election. Correct me if I'm wrong, if there's anyone else. The MOST's colleagues say there'll be hundreds. So these people won't be able to run, and maybe their objective guilt wasn't great, it wasn't like I would say crucial, and I think this is more an act of political struggle, of legal means, not of real desire for, not of real desire for some change. I call here if it isn't just Andro Vlahusic to whom it will apply, here I am livingly interested in how many others there are. And I also remember cases where that MP I think HDSSB did not know he signed that some state land, that they were paying for concessions and not in time for peasants to get incentives, was mostly no property benefit for themselves. He actually made it possible for the peasants to continue the lease on that land. This was the goal of his decision and ultimately because of his decision as I said, a man will probably be charged and will now be banned from running for the upcoming local elections, for example in the 5th month. Thank you so much for listening to me and every good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22285	Thank you. Before we begin the replicas, I would just have to remind Agent Pernar, the first agenda you mentioned, he continues. Secondly, an analysis will already show that this assembly is doing much more than all previous Parliaments have done, and besides, it was our wish, we have encouraged and said that this assembly will do more. As far as the agenda is concerned, I have to correct you, Mr. Pernar, I need to correct your agenda, or the addition of the agenda cannot be changed, it cannot be done until there are 76 parliamentary deputies here and can be discussed at the time of their entry into the agenda, you said different information. In addition, you should know that SDP deputies asked for a break because they were not deceived because they knew what would happen, they asked for a break and said they did not want to take part in this. In other words, they used their democratic right to leave the assembly, not deceived, but knew. And besides, you mentioned the amendments, that there wasn't enough time, there's a week, and this is included in the agenda, so a week to classify the amendments. Of course, this is not a replica of you or I use it as a parliamentary representative, but to warn of certain allegations that you have stated regarding the work of the Parliament itself. And I'd just have to warn one thing. You mentioned that there is no time limit of 8 days in the bill, Article 3 tells you exactly what you need to look at, so it also exists. Now we move on to replicas. The first for replica was the representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22286	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Pernar, my replica refers to your finding that this law is passed in some non-transparent circumstances in the late afternoons when, or small hours, you may not think the Parliament should work. So, I'm just reminding you that it's precisely on your request or on the search for an opposition colleague this law was passed in two readings. So he went through a procedure in which, except in these seven days since he was included in the session's agenda, you had a month of discussion that through the web and you and all those who had any objections to this law you made to them. As I was already saying only GONG and one natural person came forward with their remarks and each other asked to tighten the conditions for running. I'm also glad that in the meantime, compared to the first reading when you said that even murderers and criminals, everyone can run and whether they're in jail if they can hand over their lists so they can show up in the election, yet they're quite retarded with their views. I see that now this law is no longer a problem for you, and I am very pleased with it, given that we have discussed the issue of your immunity for a banal crime, we are now discussing very difficult qualifications, serious criminal acts, we are also discussing the most serious criminal act that can be committed by a public person, which is abuse of position and authority. Therefore, I hope that on the next Friday, when I believe you will vote on this law, you will give support to this law because very often from your position as a parliamentary representative you call your colleagues on the left and right that they have dealt with various criminal acts, etc., that they should be expelled from politics etc.. And here's a unique opportunity for us to pass one law as a substitute for a lack of moral responsibility and for nothing to be the same in politics anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22287	Thank you, Agent Maru Kristic. The next replica was requested by MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22288	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pernar is one of the more interesting discussions regarding local self-government. And here's a question before I say the replica, if you can explain the impact of Mars on Earth on the day of the elections or the moon itself, maybe that should have been included here in the amendment. Well, if you have an objection, it might be a good idea to listen. The fact is, we've discussed your problem a little while ago, the fact that I've been arguing and saying my position, but you should be a man, you can't poop a little, you can't pee a little. You were saying earlier, and what I support is that for a puzzling reason, the State's Attorney's office has filed a criminal report and you're wanted for immunity. Yeah, the removal of immunity. But two of your friends who did the same graphite that... I also made a poster a little who wasn't an activist didn't do it, those two of your colleagues are going to come to court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not about you, it's about criminals you mention, you list them, Vidosevici, Sanaderi, I don't know what attributes you give them. So speak boldly and boldly as a real man, when you have sought for yourself the protection of the legal cause, because the state's attorney's office does not do business seriously, which should work and protect Croatian society from criminals be brave and bold and say which amendment should you, apart from this influence of Mars on Earth, which amendment should change or supplement this law? And we'll back him up, here we go. Last time I promised you I'd back him up, and this time I promise I'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22289	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22290	Thank you, Mr. Bull, so much for your replica and for the opportunity for me to respond to it in this high house. You said you proposed concrete changes, here there were cases where among the meanings of things or categories from the catalogues of crimes people who were convicted of this banning running is one of the items which is recognition of occupation and capitulation. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our country is currently under the financial occupation of foreign banks and kneels. These foreign banks condition us all, and if I, for example, go out without knowing and publicly coming forward and confessing dear voters our country is occupied by foreign banks and our government is powerless, will I perhaps be convicted of recognising capitulation or occupation? Is that possible? Here's another example, a violation of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, you may tomorrow conclude the gentleman in the DORH with his concessions regardless of the Parliament, outside of the Parliament Mr. Pernar has injured the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. And you can condemn me to it, I can't go to the election anymore. Take care of this, destroying cultural goods and objects in which cultural goods are located, you, if you do not approve of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, make any difference on your home, apartment, whatever it may be a banal change, a truly banal change, and if you do so, you have committed this crime, if you are convicted of you, you will be banned from running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22291	Thank you. A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22292	Dear President, colleague Pernar means colleagues have already said everything I thought to say about the debate itself, so she's not being led in small hours like you said. We had one procedure that we agreed to essentially go through two readings, they had a chance all in the first reading, and through this all the time to make their remarks. The opposition has left this assembly on its own, so this is not about any non-transparent terms of discussion of this law. The media has been writing about this since MOST announced before the parliamentary elections this as one of our 7 conditions. There's been a lot of talk about it in public, so I think that, that's quite enough time to fix this law and we've done it. The HDZ colleagues gave some kind of legal criminal, or some kind of crime that should be classified, and we put it there. And I think this is a good law that will make it impossible for those who have committed some serious crime and a serious crime to abuse their position and authority to deal with politics. And I agree with my colleague Bul, which is why we're asked to remove your immunity is a banal thing for me, and the DORH has put us in an awkward situation because if we get in a position to get us to arbitration about what we need or don't need to take off immunity, we're going to get into an awkward situation. And all of us here think that what you draw graphs is a lame thing. But this means that those who have committed serious crimes, who, as mayors, have used their position and authority to allow them to deal with politics. If you're behind this, then surely you won't help us deal with corruption and crime in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22293	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22294	I understand what you're saying, but we're back on the central topic again, and the central theme is that some of the acts that I think are not extremely difficult are being inserted into this catalogue of crimes and I'm going back to the topic of the destruction of cultural goods and objects in which cultural goods are located. Because the system is legal, he doesn't care if you've damaged the monument of culture in real terms or not. They want to know if you've made any changes to this cultural good without a building permit. If so, it is an automatic destruction of cultural goods and my mother, at sea in Cavtat, was illegally convicted of destroying cultural monuments even though this monument of culture was not really damaged at all. However, if by any chance she had been to say so, she was legally convicted of crime, corruption, and I don't know why she couldn't go to the elections, she couldn't run, etc. etc. For this reason I appeal to you as a legislator to mean the example of this with cultural goods or I don't know the shame of the state I say why to move away so because it could depend on someone's political motives to process someone and then it stays on speculation, what's a disgrace to the state? Let's just say that if you say that this country is disgraced, that its institutions are desperate someone might tell you that you're embarrassing the state. Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22295	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22296	Thank you very much. My colleague Pervan, I wanted to see you, I'm sorry, Pernar. And that's exactly what it is. I wanted to explain to you, in fact, what Mr. President of the Parliament said, which is why we don't have any colleagues on the other side, because you're late for the debate. You come when it suits you. So, when you have time or you're not busy with other jobs and then you missed your colleagues who called a break for 10 minutes, so they agreed in a few minutes. Then a colleague of the coat of arms came out and gave a lecture on why they didn't want to take part in the debate about this law. And you showed up later. So you can't judge the way you've discussed it, because this law is yours and you've had the chance in the first reading, now and in the second reading to prepare yourself, to come here with a finished amendment, to propose now, and that amendment would certainly be discussed. But listening to your debates, I personally believe, and I've listened to them a lot here, because I'm pretty much here that your preparation for a debate on the law doesn't last longer than the time it takes to print on some wall some kind of mark like the one you printed on the Living Wall. Oh, no? What your need was for you to make one dead building alive, i.e. To make a dead wall alive, that's what you'll explain when it comes here, like a state attorney, you'll have all day to tell him why you've started a trial against me or in court or somewhere else. But your constant address to us at HDZ is getting really tiring, because in no part of us are guilty of all the acts you've done over the past few years, months, and even the last few days. So I say let's be correct, let's do the job right, and nothing's too late. Because we can discuss every day for 24 hours. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22297	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22298	Mr. Boric, much is subjective and subject to our impression. Let's just say today when you mentioned my stay or my break-up with the debate I've actually been here since the start of the session when it was voted on all the points of the agenda except at one point when I ran into the bathroom, I went back to the assembly and there was that famous MIP report. And then I think four hours without a break, which I think is precedent, because imagine the situation that you, or me, are discussing for four hours about me. I can't leave at that time, because I don't want to be like this lady to hold the exhibit, so then I wanted to leave, so I just wanted to listen to it. I didn't get a chance to eat lunch. I put something in my mouth just before the hearing, and I got out of here for maybe 15 minutes. And when I came back here, there was already this second item of the agenda that kind of came on the agenda. And I think when you talk about my non-resistance from Parliament, I think there are people who don't break out of Parliament anymore than I do. There are those who haven't answered their word one time, unfortunately, but what's here. But every time a man judges others, he has to go first. So you, Mr. Boric, look at your colleagues, look around you, see what their presence is. There's 40 of them inside, three of them, five of them. That's it. And after all, it'll all show time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22299	Thank you. Representative Josip Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22300	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Pernar can only claim that in your presentation you feel that you are once again afraid of this law since it was worth it at the time when you led the Facebook protests, so that today you would certainly not be in the Parliament. You who committed dozens of crimes and crimes and crimes in these protests, you who represented yourselves as the protectors of those powerless who emigrated and then committed crimes by disobeying police officers by disobeying their orders, attacking their integrity, i.e. assaulting officials in the performance of official duties. Those are criminal acts, if you didn't know. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The penal code corresponds from six months to five years in prison. All that you did, you did and you reached a political promotion by committing violations or crimes throughout your lifetime of appearance in front of the Croatian public. Today when these people you've been protecting like they have huge claims from the Ministry of the Interior for police intervention. One lady 70,000 kunas who has no place to pay for your Living Wall and you at the head or Sincic why don't you collect the money today and help pay for that debt that you've done by preventing the appraisal. This law certainly concerns you in the future, for you will have to answer when you are then to attack an official in the performance of your official duties. And whatever it was I said and I wrote to ask the Home Secretary to scout Which is why it has not been processed and who has prevented this procession. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22301	Thank you. Representative Pernar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22302	Thank you. Mr. Djakic, thank you for allowing me to speak from my post by replicating. And I think that the reasons why people end up being deposed that it's not the guilt of the Living Wall that credits can't be returned is the problem of a monetary system where loans are ultimately invaluable. Well, after all, the state itself is unable to bring them back. And when you consider that, don't you think it's hypocritical of a state that itself cannot repay its own loans to depose people who are in the same situation as these people, these poor people, they owe a lot, much, much less, but for them the damage is absolute, they remain without their own home, roofing over their heads many are then disintegrated families. And as for this attack on the official person, well, I was just talking to a cop in Bauer the other day, he told me, Ivane because that woman who attacked me in front of the soup kitchen she claimed I hit her, he told Ivane I know how you did, we had experience with you you never attacked us, hit us, so there's no cop who's gonna tell you me Pernar hit, none. Here's if there's one cop in these five years of my fight against the raids and against the government of Jadranka Kosor I invite him to go public and say Ivan hit me like this, it turns out that I'm some kind of serial abuser who attacks official persons, and you'll see that reality is actually far from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22303	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Representative Damir Felak has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22304	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, Mr. Pernar, I congratulate you. You were able to turn today into your own day of promotion in the Parliament. You could also invite citizens to the Open Day of Ivan Pernar in the Croatian Parliament. You're using every opportunity for personal promotion, you haven't contributed to any quality work by this House, you haven't proposed any laws so far, you haven't proposed any amendments, I apologize in the meantime there's been one amendment to the Living Wall, I don't know how much you've participated in it, but the fact is that you're the central theme of everything and everything. Of being afraid to go to court for some kind of banal act, and someone said those two of your colleagues who were with you would have to go to court, and you're trying to hide behind the parliamentary immunity which I think is totally cowardly because especially here where there's a banal part. But with great ease, you call out and name people, and that's all we're targeting are people who bond with HDZ. You didn't think of, say, the mayor of Sisak, so Mayor Vukovar, etc. People who are either tried or are in the same process of proving the guilt that comes from the ranks of the SDP or some other parties, you have not remembered them but are constantly attacking only one party, and you will not come from what you might benefit some time, and that is a presumption of innocence, so no one is guilty either by the Constitution or by the law of this country until it is proved guilty by a judicial verdict. Whoever has the power of judgment is guilty. Whether he's guilty of some banal act, less banally, it's a matter of justice, the DORH and the court, not yours or ours to judge it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22305	Representative Pernar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22306	Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and see that in some way you are bothered to say the most from HDZ I call for crime. But you'd have to wonder if it's for a reason or for no reason, if maybe I have something personal against your party, so I'm just attacking you or there's one, let's call it public perception that in these 25 years, the most important thing that I can say is that I'm doing damage to our society, and in the end, as much as it seems excessive to you, it's known who led the conversion and privatisation, you know who was selling it to the INA, it's known at the end of the day that representatives whose parties were in court and as a legal person, so as a party, you've been tried as strangers because of corruption. It's not like I'm saying now you're corrupt on a flat-rate basis, no, the party was on the defendant's bench, the cashiers admitted that they were pulling money, that's 30 million kuna, and God knows how many of these state-owned companies. If I'm not mistaken, the Ministry of Health is one of the few people who didn't have contracts with FIMI Media and you spent that money on your own needs. So after the Bureau session, caterering came, you feasted, ate and drank with the money that was robbed by the citizens. And at the same time, the citizens who were robbed by your party were digging through the trash in Gundulic's. And it's paradox and absurd, and if you're going to judge me for... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22307	Thank you. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is Agent Ivan Peranr.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22308	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm going to go back to where I left off when I talked to the pay phone or that means what it's about, there are parties and there are individuals who are who they have, and I'm not going to say the charges, who have even had convictions but who are inadmissible against themselves. For example. Ivo Sanader had a verdict against himself and then the verdict went down in a higher court, even a powerful one who fell, but was a verdict against the HDZ. And now what happens? By amending the law, the crime imposed on HDZ suddenly disappeared from the spectrum of criminal offences and then, under some dim procedure, the ruling against the HDZ on the withdrawal of money fell. And I don't understand it if it's already about the honesty of justice, etc. Why does this law apply only to persons? Why and the political parties convicted of corruption, which have, for example, abused their position of power, which, as I would say, have put our country in a position of subjugation against other countries, which have in fact in some way ruined our country, means if they are convicted of a crime against their own state, that they have stolen both states and citizens, why such parties would not be banned from going to elections as well. That's what I don't get. Why, let's say some individual shouldn't go to an election that makes something, and the party that did it on a much bigger scale, where a lot more people were involved in that work, it dares to vote. I asked the question, and I came to the conclusion that there can only be one reason, to protect one particular party by legal means, from not being banned from going to the elections, and on the other hand that other people who are not part of that party are banned from going out for the elections. So from one of my perspectives like this, it seems to me that this bill is biased and I repeat this problem of destroying cultural goods and objects in which cultural goods are located. That's a very broad definition. For example, this House is culturally good. If someone went to change a window without a building permit or to do a request, or I don't know, move a wall one in the Assembly no matter what size, at least size, the most irrelevant wall, means that it's not carrying by 20 cm left or right, it's damage to your cultural monument. And if it wasn't for building permits to do it, that person who does it could lose his right to run for office. In my opinion, it's a dragon measure for a person who was essentially involved in crime, not in construction work. And as for the other crimes, I think there's real crimes here, here's what I don't know, preventing the fight against the enemy. I mean, what's the chance of someone in this country being convicted of such an act? Take care of this: service in the enemy army. Who served in the enemy army and went to elections in Croatia? Who's that running for office? Watch this! Deploying the military and defence powers of the state. Here, look at those moments falling, the army is in a catastrophic state. I think the government is responsible for this situation or the Ministry of Defense, and in theory could be accused of pressing charges against the defence minister, against the authorities, against the government to undermine the defence power of the state. Or, let's say, here's a public incentive to terrorism. Whoever in Croatia publicly encourages terrorism, I don't know people like that. And I don't understand at all how a person who calls for terrorism publicly would run for elections because the meaning, or terrorists, are essentially not involved in the electoral process, that's the point of the whole story. So they use terrorism because they don't believe in political methods. Now you people who don't know how to plant a bomb forbid the election, and we don't actually have any people who would want to go to the election. We have slavery. Here's how many slave owners run for elections in Croatia? Do you know of one other than holding this country, you HDZ gentlemen, for 25 years in a slave position against the European Union, Washington and so on? I mean, it's just that this whole palette is basically like you're fighting some heavy criminals, high-level traitors, etc., and it's basically all one empty and hollow story because these articles don't really apply to anyone who participates in the election process. This is more a matter of some fulfillment of the form, so now let's go take the Penal Code, let's go see the works that seem kind of heavy and now let's go in and get all those pieces, like, tax-list them and put them in, let's go ban these people from running. I'll read on. Watch this! Kidnapping top state officials. I don't know which person involved in the kidnapping of top state officials would want to go running for elections and what chances she'd have and would be in a position to run for power for it. And yet if it isn't, you can run again. These are all some crazy structures. Watch this! Preparation of criminal acts against the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what that would mean at all. I'm asking the exhibitor's representative to explain it to me. Watch this! Work crimes against the wounded and the patients. Here, who are these people in Croatia who are committing war crimes against wounded and prisoners and who would possibly be prohibited from running for these amendments to the law. Watch this! The illegal confiscation of things from the murdered and wounded in the battlefield. So this is where the theft of the deceased, the enemy soldiers is placed as an element for the ban on running for office. Who thought of this, ladies and gentlemen? What does this have to do with common sense, where are these enemy soldiers? Where are those who steal those enemy soldiers? I think it was really going... I think it really worked out,...... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's Mr. Bully using illegal means of fighting with me now. [[Adversary President: Representative Bulj, Representative Bulj.]] It's also forbidden if you're convicted of illicit means of combat and this isn't fair play, Mr. Bull. So this is where I get distracted in the showdowns. It's an illicit means of combat. [[Intruder President: Representative Bulj, please.]] Here you are and you may be banned from running tomorrow. And watch this, recruiting and training for terrorism. Which of the politicians in Croatia does this? Who would this law apply to? I read, read, read, here's to high treason. Has anyone ever been convicted of high treason in our country? Mr. Petrov, I don't think so, I don't think so. What's all this for? Here, maybe someone will say that what I'm doing to you is violence against the highest government official, and that's the same thing in that catalog. And when I look at that catalog I say it seems to me that it's all one big one, I'm not going to say crazy, but I'm literally saying that someone took a criminal law, that they went simply on the subject of having a thought, so he went in to put in such hats of articles that it turns out that there are some big changes and there's actually no change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22309	Mr. Pernar, if I can add a short thing, don't be afraid of me, I won't judge you or sue you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22310	Thank you very much. Your Honor. My colleague Pernar, sometimes this afternoon's debates, especially on Friday, can simply be torn off, i.e. to be torn off and ended as they unfortunately end, but we must respect the Rules of Procedure and respect everything that is said. And now, as far as you were preparing to discuss this bill, the fact that you skipped something, that your Live Wall club handed over the amendment to this law and you determined that you didn't even have that much time to endure. Here's the amendment, Bill No. 8, part two. So you're completely unprepared and you can't just walk into a meeting room and get angry when something's replicating to you. And let's say I did when I was talking about your immunity. And I'm waiting for the state attorney to ask him, and what about the case of yellow envelopes in the yellow Living Wall, which is a colleague who just left you just reported to the DORH and why they're keeping quiet about it so we can find out if it's true or if it's something wrong not to raise doubts. Because I'm saying there have been much worse procedures if what was recently written in some media is true, you'll probably answer that part. For from such a Messiah to expect is, who has so many followers to be Tito of our day, Tito of the 21st century. Or at least when we're at the mercy of being at least Rade Concar of our days, to say grace I wouldn't ask or give it to you. Right? And not here behaving, I mean you know who's whining, whining, whining. You've been whineing twice already. And for such conditions as you are in, a good singer sang a good verse a long time ago, i.e. It's a Sikriki Pernar song, but it's all gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22311	It's time, please, Representative Boric. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22312	I am honored to be able to respond to Agent Boric. It's just that what we're being burdened with is essentially an anonymous donation, that's what we're being burdened with. And what's put on your burden isn't an anonymous donation. You are burdened to mean that you are the prime minister, or president of your HDZ party, has given directives to your subordinates to exorcise money from state firms, not in the sense that someone gave him a donation, no, no, but to suck out money from state firms for which there are countless witnesses, evidence, recognitions, etc. And yet all judgments fell. What you're putting on us, there's no evidence, there's no... But sir I'm telling you about objective meaning, so why the DORH, you're asking why the DORH isn't working. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We deny it, we claim it wasn't there. ... I did, and I said the same thing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It means it wasn't done. There's no evidence, there's no witness, she said everything. It's like I'm saying that you took it, I don't know that I saw you take the yellow envelopes with 100 million euros and you say I'm not and I'm asking why the DORH isn't investigating it. Well, there's no argument for that, probably. There, Mr. Boric, and as for the first part of your presentation, I must, as far as the amendments are concerned, have been called by Sincic, said Pernar steals their time until I hand over the amendment, if I hadn't stolen the time, if I hadn't spoken here to the Living Wall, he wouldn't have handed over the amendments. But as soon as we got into that debate, I liked talking to you here, and I'm just enjoying the debate. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22313	It's time. Thank you, Agent Pernar. Representative Marko Vučetic asked for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22314	Thank you, I'm going to break up this family atmosphere of laughter a little bit, and I'm going to ask you one thing, and I'm going to ask you a few rhetorical questions. The first thing would be if we knew the difference between the legislative body, the legislative mind, and if we thought they were... I'm an agent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, whether the Assembly is a place where someone will shake out the history of their own souls to such a extent that they can put together a whole genealogical tree, that they can even learn about the localities where someone’s family acted and what they did on that site. No matter what Friday afternoon, we're all exhausted, but if this legislative body discusses this and we're going to pass exhausted laws, but we're going to pass and we're going to revolutionize the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22315	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22316	Thank you again for allowing me to speak, and the more replicas it is, the more time and the longer the debate takes. I invite you all to replicate as much as possible, to use your right as an agent, but I must point out the following if you find these discussions boring or what I'm saying is who's making you sit here right now? No one, so you could've left with debate number one, number two, you could've let me tell you what I had to apologize for, which I applied for without the replicas we'd already be done. But you wouldn't let that happen. You wanted a debate, you wanted an academic discussion, the Rules of Procedure is who they are, everyone has the right to speak. Do I speak a little bit more than we should, maybe even, but someone has to speak for these people who aren't here. These people have no voice, they are absent and I feel a duty in some way and in their name give pain to this debate. It's my wish, it's great that when you change this law someone asked, since I like to argue, here's Mr. Pernar what you think of this. And maybe I could've given you some clever thought, I would've given it to you. You think, here's Mr. Boric saying there's not a single smart one. It's a subjective attitude, I think it does. And maybe we could have made a better suggestion together than this. But no, no one asked me anything, and that's why we're having this discussion instead of, uh, code, with the bill promoter in some body that's making amendments to the law, we're having a debate here in the assembly right now. In other words, the debate cannot be avoided, the only question is where will we have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22317	Thank you. Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22318	Thank you, Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I am surprised that a representative who spoke over 200 times in this assembly, so colleague Pernar is said to be inactive. And now I'm looking at a little bit of that statistics, and here's the former entrepreneurship and craft minister who answered the word even once. And now someone sitting next to him tells you that you are an inactive representative and that you are not ready to argue. So that argument is so strange to me, otherwise there are MPs who have reported in zero times. So I wonder in Parliament if we have silent representatives or how? Here,... [[I'd just like to apologize, I'd like to warn you not to use.../]] Why, why [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, I'm telling Agent Pernar who was told to be inactive. [[Intruder President: Please, I would warn you not to use your replica to replicate the replicas of others.]] But good. So this is about the use of judicial authorities to eliminate political opponents. I believe Agent Pernar that you may have partly challenged this day as it is called, removing immunity precisely because about 10 days ago you said that you might be running for mayor of Zagreb and then we saw that both HDZ and SDP suddenly became coalition partners, there is no more power of opposition to remove your immunity. And here we see, in fact, that the judiciary is used for politics and that reminds me of those times, not so long ago, when there was one and the same charge with an empty line for the name and in the indictment, which was being photocopied, and only the name was being written and the indictment was always the same, the people's enemy and the socially harmful element. And therefore, you are now defending yourself against such a claim, and these are the same as what you are now counting. These are things that you can charge absolutely every citizen of the Republic of Croatia if you want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22319	Excuse me, before the reply to the replica, Representative Miro Bulj has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22320	Mr. President, hold a session, Article 232, "The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda." Article 2 "If the speaker gets away from the agenda topic, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda topic." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "If the speaker does not hold the agenda theme after the second call, the chairman will take away his word. In that case, the representative may no longer take part in the debate on this topic of the agenda.’. So please stick to Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22321	Thank you for reading the Rules of Procedure to me instead of just saying. And as for the warning, I warned counsel Bunjec. That's how it works. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22322	Regarding the amendments themselves, Mr. Boric, well, I'd just like to say, because Mr. Bunjac is getting attached to it, it's not about me not wanting to give you, say, some special amendments Yeah? [[Adversity President: Representative Pernar.]] And I'm talking about... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22323	I have to give you a warning. I did, I warned you last time to stick to the subject and I'll have to warn you next time. I'd like you to respond to the line, not Mr. Boric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22324	And I wasn't answering, you didn't even hear what I was going to say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22325	Replica, the replica was from Mr. Bunjac, I remember very well what Mr. Bunjac said, so here you can be consulted for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22326	I'm looking at Mr. Bunyan and I'm answering him. Mr. Bunjac, it's not that I don't want to make amendments but it's that I'm aware that my colleagues in the HDZ will refuse my amendment because all the reasonable arguments I make for them are meaningless, and even when I've given a concrete amendment such as not to raise VAT to the hosts, they unanimously rejected it. And then it seems, a false illusion is that there's no constructive contribution to discussing it, but as pernar's story alone, Pernar's story, Pernar's story, Pernar's not working anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, here I call upon Mr. Bunjec as a witness to see if the ruling accepts our amendment, the amendment to the Living Wall. As long as they ignore our amendments, it is completely irrelevant whether we are giving one amendment or as the SDP did when it was buried with 30 amendments to the government knowing from the beginning that all amendments will be rejected. So, I think we should still raise one level to say democracy in this House and be a little bit more respected if we don't already have an opinion, then at least propose an opposition if they're constructive. Because in the end, we watched the debate together when it was, when the amendments were being voted. The HDZ refused even the Most amendments which shocked me. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22327	Thank you. Representative Stevo Culej has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22328	Your Honor, I don't know what it's worth to speak at all, but here I am. My friend Pernar, it doesn't hurt me that you've been harassing both the boss and the station here, it doesn't matter, there are days more than the sausages say. I only hope that Croatian TV viewers do not watch ours, Croats and Croats. But as much as it's worth telling you, I'm just gonna say this. When you said in Bijeljina that you recognise all the former republics of ex Yugoslavia, that you speak Serbian-Croatian language, that for you is the greatest patriot Milorad Pupovac and the other one next to him, which is now missing. I'll tell you, this law of the MOST proposal that they wrote, all those items that you used to tell here, I apologize for making fun of in their own way, they have a strong foothold in that part of history that you don't know. And that's why you're doing it anyway. When you talk about establishing slavery where slavery is established. There have been, and many such will possibly also run for office. If it was a killer, it was. The torturer, it was. And a lot of people will get up, maybe they'll pass. That's exactly the kind of proposal that's been made. Try to learn by the time you grew up what was going on in Croatia so you can teach us your way here. But be careful when you talk about such things, because many people are offended by your colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22329	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22330	So in every cultural, civilized country, people who have tortured, killed, held captive, etc. They wouldn't even be in a position to run for election. And we have a situation that people like that, I don't know if they're abolized, or what exactly they're going for. But I do know that those who have done bad things, terrible crimes are not being prosecuted. And I ask who controls the judiciary? Are these exactly the end of the HDZ people, and in the end you forbid these war criminals to go to the polls, and the attorney general, Mr. Cvitan, says we don't have the resources to process them. Why isn't there? Because they're dealing with me. So, you make a law that looks perfect in a cake, that will ban our teachers, people who shoot prisoners of war, and I don't know what not to run for election on one side, war profiteers, etc. And on the other hand, there is not a single legally condemned war profiteer in Croatia. Those who tortured, killed, raped in war, etc. They're not being punished, they're never even processed. And we actually feel like there's a law being done here to satisfy the form, to give the impression of society here, you see, that's how we fight against war criminals, war profiteers, etc. And in reality, no one's processing these people, they're still going to elections, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22331	One surprising thing. Injury of the Rules of Procedure for Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22332	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22333	Excuse me, you should have reacted the moment Mr. Culey was. No, you have no right and I ask you to move on. As far as continuing to participate, the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives shall be represented by Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22334	Thank you, Chairman. And before I go on, I'd like to give you one commendation, which is that you let Mr. Culey speak freely of what he thinks is important because this is the highest house and the only body where people can actually say out loud that everyone else hears them without fear of censoring what they think, or what they have to say. Also when I spoke with him, he had a discussion with Miroslav Tudjman then he also injured the Rules of Procedure in fact replicated me but I didn't mind that, and [[The incursion president: Representative Pernar, I would ask.]] Okay. [[Adversity President: Representative Pernar, last warning before I give you a warning.]] I just wanted to say that the chairman is doing the right thing by sometimes allowing replicas to actually be given and sometimes saying something that seems out of the question, which is actually about the subject. [[Intruder President: Please stick to the topic.]] Because the theme of my exposure was to change this to tell the Law on Local Elections. And those crimes that Mr. Culey tried to point to. So, during this debate, we came to the conclusion that the reason why these crimes are being put into practice, or at least Mr Culej has made it known to prevent those who committed war crimes against prisoners in the Homeland War, etc. Killing people, raping them, banning them from going to elections. But the problem is again we go back to the judiciary, to the judiciary because looking at the Croatian judiciary is a bigger problem is you who are allegedly not at all saying that you are guilty or I am giving it to you, who allegedly did not know you were involved in this removal of Cyrillic plates or I was painting graphite than someone who held a woman in slavery, raped her who was killing prisoners of war, etc. That took people, that's terrible stuff. And we have to ask ourselves that's why DORH considers it a priority or has enough resources, people, times, etc. For the processing of both you and me who have made realistically even if it is, I don't think that some of you are, even if you are guilty, I don't see any huge damage to your act, just like mine is about insignificant work, and for serious things, you don't take away immunity. It means that someone here in the HDZ took off immunity because he stole HEP, HAC, Croatia's insurance, I don't know which state-owned firm or which ministry all of our colleagues from our club's representatives or two partner clubs are seven of us, would vote to remove immunity. But in your case, none of our colleagues voted to remove your immunity because it is clear to us that the motives of political nature are why this process is being conducted. And in the end, what is most terrifying to you has been decided by your own colleagues. That's what, my colleagues, unlike you, are kind of going to protect me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22335	Agent Pernar, I'm giving you a warning right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22336	You got it. Here's the deal. I'm not taking any more turns with this promise. And I'd just like to say that I think more consultations should have been made, that there should have been more talks with the MPs and that it should have gone at least that every club of MPs in the future when such amendments of the electoral law are being made, to invite a representative of each club of MPs and to try to find some consensus because otherwise we are in a situation where we have such marathon sessions and marathon discussions, and we could simply have this debate outside of this assembly pay phone and we could have voted this law long ago, and so on. I would like to point out once again that we find the proposed amendments to the law unacceptable because they do not enter the very essence of the crime, that is what I was saying that Sanader, Vidosevic, Kalmeta, Kirina and the entire team can go to local elections until, unlike them, people who are, for example, convicted even though they were meant for minor matters or where there was no harm even according to the recognition of the state's attorneyship in the case of Andra Vlahusic will not be able to run in the elections and therefore I am sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22337	Thank you. Before we move on to one replica by MP Mira Bulj, I would just have to remind Mr. Pernar again that the regulation and the Rules of Procedure set out that each club, each parliamentary representative has the right to submit the amendment from the moment it is included in the session agenda. So I will repeat that there has been a possibility for a week and that it is the same democratic right of every parliamentary representative as the democratic right not to do so as to know or not know the Rules of Procedure. In other words, the Proposer does not have to go to pray for the clubs of parliamentary representatives to make amendments but is understood if they have not given amendments that they are not even interested in the law. Representative Miro Bulj has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22338	Mr. Pernar, you mentioned Mr. Culey's case, it's not between us. Steve Culej made a huge contribution to the liberation of the Republic of Croatia through the Homeland War and indeed your lists are pointless and he told you well, you have tried to get away now but indeed Croatia is a democratic state, unfortunately the judiciary was not doing business and it is really not there when you went to the Belgrade Assembly here is impossible as in Serbia, for example, is the main associate of the Chettic Duke Prime Minister. Now imagine, perhaps there is a similar dual citizenship and can be run in the Republic of Serbia by criminals who have slaughtered, and perhaps many and still live, not perhaps but most likely and certainly a non-stop call on those panels that were politically motivated to set up in Vukovar to provoke victims from the Homeland War was precedentd. And really this is the law we're introducing, and maybe you didn't read it right. It is in this law that these people who have done these crimes in the Homeland War and crimes cannot run. You can give the amendment so we can take it off, maybe when you go to the Belgrade Assembly, the Banja Luka might give you those suggestions to take off, you have the right, you might get a confession there, you might be an even bigger star. But the fact is that Steve Culey and the people who defended this country deserve to support this proposal at least because criminals are still possible to run for office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22339	The final word on behalf of the promoter is Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22340	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Final word on behalf of the applicant. We thank you for all the concrete suggestions for this final proposal of the law, especially the amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we will of course carefully consider and show ourselves before the vote. We would like to stress that we have also received an amendment to the final draft law from the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, so it is the only amendment to a particular club of representatives. In that amendment, it should be pointed out that the Advocacy Club requires even a more rigorous approach to the prohibition of the candidates of persons convicted of a particular criminal offence mentioned in the Catalogue of Criminal Crimes than is provided for by our final proposal for the law. And the amendment proposes to leave out the words so that a person is sentenced to a prison sentence of at least 6 months. Therefore, if the amendment were accepted, it would mean that all persons convicted of a criminal offence, regardless of the duration of time, would have a legal ban on running, therefore far more stringent than it is in our final proposal. We will therefore have to make a statement, but when we consult both legal professionals and competent persons, let's say, at the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, the amendment to the Living Wall also proposes additional criminal offences that would be an obstacle to running. Therefore, an extension of the Criminal Catalogue of Criminal Crimes is required with all criminal acts qualified as a crime of hatred and a criminal and criminal act of domestic violence. We will also make this clear, and we believe that these supplements deserve attention especially to the crimes of domestic violence. But until we vote on this law, we will give the final position in which this amendment can be accepted. And in the end, we have to say about certain discussions that were here about us not sanctioning persons who do not have the rightful conviction for a criminal offence and we cannot prohibit the running of persons who do not have the rightful verdict. This is clearly highlighted in all documents of the Venice Commission that exist in the Code of Good Practice in Election Matters, as well as in the latest reports on the exclusion of individual persons from running for parliament. Only persons who are legally convicted of a certain offence prescribed by law or by the Constitution can be restricted and prevented from running. This is, therefore, a condition, in this regard for persons who do not have a rightful verdict to run for office in the elections. I thank you and that would be all in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22341	Thank you, Agent Underneath. The replicator's representative has come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22342	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Podolnjak, after this long and interesting debate that made us a little tired, I'm confused. So, Mr. Pernar has been through this whole time, so our colleague, he's been saying that this is essentially an attack on people who want to run, that we don't need to limit it, and from his club, there's an amendment that requires that more conditions be tightened. If someone's only sentenced to one day, they can't run. I don't know what the position of the Living Wall is now, and here I see that there's a fellow Bunjac left. I don't know if he answered the line, so he can't even answer, but I'm very confused and I don't know what the position of the Living Wall Club is, but I'm glad they're putting amendments to this proposal, which means they support the law and they're asking us to tighten those measures and introduce some more crimes into the catalog that people couldn't run for election.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22343	Replication response by representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22344	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. What is only relevant is to formally submit an amendment to the final draft law. It's a record of him, he's the relevant document of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives. It is obvious that his colleague Pernar did not speak on behalf of the club of representatives but that his President, Mr Sincic, submitted this amendment, which was officially accepted and that we were showing ourselves about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22345	I'd like to thank the representative of the Downworlder. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll be back at 9.30 tomorrow. The first item is the debate on the budget. I would like to remind you of this by your colleagues of the SDP and HDZ and since they are not here today, or at the end of the day, I am congratulating State Secretary Maja Grubishi at the moment. ... I'll see you tomorrow. [[Applause.]] SESSION Interrupted at 1800 hours The next item is: - Final Proposal for a Law on Local Elections, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 8. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the applicant submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who is agreeing to conduct a debate on the amendment of the motionary? Please, let's vote. I say the vote is over. I find that most of the 84 votes voted in favour of one abstention and 34 against, we have decided to hold a debate on the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22347	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This amendment corresponds to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the greatest extent that criminal offences are added in the Catalogue and crimes against voting law. We believe that now in this form this law has gained some completeness and here I am asking you to accept the amendment of the Government and this amendment and therefore to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22348	I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go. I guess that's on behalf of the SDP Club. /The noise in the hall. I would pray for peace, silence in the assembly. The presentation of the representatives of the SDP Club is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22349	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My predecessor, who spoke on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MOST, mentioned that this amendment coincides with the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by adding, in the Catalogue, criminal offences against electoral law and turns out to be the only amendment resulting from this amendment. But of course that's not the case. The amendment stemming from this amendment includes one interesting newspaper in the legislative procedure in the Republic of Croatia, or one nomotechnical acrobay. In order for colleagues and colleagues to be absolutely sure that this law includes Mr. Andre Vlahusic, and knowing that the application of the image to the text of the law itself would still be unacceptable, they are in the bracket, be careful! in the bracket, the text normative, shall be entered: including the conditional judgment. So, from the first day we talked about this bill, we pointed to a few things. First of all, the SDP advocates club absolutely supports sanctioning persons charged with criminal offences and preventing the same persons from serving butu candidates in elections for the Croatian Parliament and local elections. This comes from the Proposal for a Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament that we adopted a year and a half ago in this House. The SDP Representatives' Club also agrees with the fact that a ban on running until rehabilitation is imposed for a particular catalogue of criminal offences. After all, we have incorporated this into the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which was adopted in this House. However, the Constitutional Court had an opinion on this. And that opinion has significantly changed the text that we adopted in this House. We can agree with that opinion or we don't have to. However, this opinion of the Constitutional Court expressed in its September 2015 decision is binding for all in the Republic of Croatia. And that opinion pointed to a whole series of illogicalities...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22350	I'd like to apologize to the esteemed MPs and MPs for interrupting you. I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to respect peace and order. I ask you to appreciate the fellow who exhibits and if you have something to comment on or comment on each other, do it outside the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22351	Thank you, Mr. President, but I can outvote it is not a problem. The Constitutional Court's opinion made it clear that the Constitutional Court is demanding that penalties, i.e. criminal offences that constitute an obstacle to running for rehabilitation be balanced. They're not in this bill of law. Because all I've been saying so far is technical remarks. Now we're going to go to two more seriously. The first is Mr. Vlahusic's concern. When you handed over the text in the procedure in the first reading very quickly, it became clear that you screwed up because you did not notice that the second-degree decision relieved the punishment for Mr Vlahusic. Okay, who's doing this and wrong. So you changed the law. In the second reading, you said the law applies to those who are sentenced to prison. Counting that in the Penal Code that entered into force on 1.1.2013, the sentence is equal to the sentence of prison in a way that both represent punishment. We told you then, gentlemen, we know you want to sanction Mr. Vlahusic, so let's make it easy for you. Mr Vlahusic was convicted of a crime committed in 2010. In 2010, the sentence was not a penalty, it was then an insurance measure or a circle of criminal sanctions, but not as punishment, but as a measure of insurance. And this law didn't cover it for you. The day after that comes the amendment of the Government that corrects this mistake. And now I have to be absolutely clear. I am not happy that Mr. Vlahusic is a candidate given what is being put on his burden. I'm not and I can't lie if I am. But this and such Mr. Vlahusic, with all his shortcomings and qualities, the citizens of Dubrovnik knew twice about it as mayor. You know you can't beat him in the election. And that doesn't just apply to colleagues from the Most. This amendment is the fruit of the ruling of the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia. Behind this stands both HDZ and Most. You know you can't move Vlahusic another way, and then you move him by this law. But you're not gonna make it. And why is that? Because this law cannot survive in the Constitutional Court. Not only because he lacks only the image so that he can be clearly marked as lex Vlahusic, but because of the reason I'm about to bring it out now, which in any case prevents me from raising my hand for something like this. Or since we've improved the technique I press the button. So, gentlemen dear, the Law on Local Elections prescribed conditions for the termination of the term of office of elected officials, so mayors and mayors, or members of representative bodies, there is a requirement for those persons to cease their duty in the event of conviction to an unconditional prison sentence of 6 months. And what does that mean? And what does that mean? This means that the person acting as mayor at the time he was sentenced to parole continues to act in that capacity. So no one from the Most or HDZ is disputed if someone is convicted during the term of office, he continues to act in that capacity. But running can't do that. Well, gentlemen, as long as you send these orders to the procedure, we will not only vote against but at the same time, the same time that this is published in the National Journal goes to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22352	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. Representative Maro Kristic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22353	Your Honor. The esteemed colleague of the Grbin, in fact, the entire intensity of this speech you gave was to protect the convicted criminals. You yourself said the other day that this law does not apply to Vlahusic, so agree with yourself. As far as we're concerned, we're... [[The intrusion of the president: I apologize, I apologize to Representative Maro Kristic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22354	I would ask esteemed MPs to continue the debate outside of this debate in the hallway and allow their colleagues to speak their mind. Here is representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22355	Unlike you, we do not want the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to represent legally convicted persons without a period of rehabilitation that is not involved. As far as the parentheses are concerned, it's not true that we changed it by amendment to the Proposer. The parentheses also stood in the amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So here's your whole speech actually comes down to the fact that we're trying another time...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22356	I've asked Souch for the third time. ... Just as I had previously warned one representative in the morning by last name, after three times I now warned by name, in fact by last name and by representative Sauch. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And because I warned the morning that if you didn't listen twice, I'd go after it and I don't want to go by names. And so once again please refrain from commenting. Ask for a replica, use other tools and you have the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22357	So here's my thanks to the chairman. I'm going to have to repeat, so this whole speech of Mr. Grbin whose real knowledge I've believed so far, but a little disappointed me was that he actually wanted to release or exculpate a powerful convicted person. We, unlike him and our partners, do not want it, we do not want to be represented by convicted criminals in the representative bodies of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the parentheses mentioned by him was not adopted or proposed by the amendment of the proposal, the bracket also existed in the amendment to the Government. So there's nothing controversial about it. As for all the debates that were being held, we had constructive proposals, and that is precisely why there is this amendment in which we included acts against electoral law but one of the acts that Mr. Grbin felt should be included is rape with deadly consequences. We are sorry that he thinks this law applies to Mr Vlahusic. We did not mention Mr Vlahusic once during the debate. He was the one who kept mentioning him with his colleagues a little while saying that the law applies to him and a little saying that the law does not apply to him. We regret that we have to pass laws like this, unfortunately, but they are one substitute. For lack of moral responsibility, we are therefore forced and our neighbouring countries of the environment have much more restrictive rules on this matter. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22358	Thank you. I will only warn MP Kristic has continued for 8 seconds and was taken away from him for half a minute. Here's a clear that weather warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22359	That's not true. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22360	Look at the tape. Representative Peja Grub's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22361	If you wanted to sanction crimes, if you wanted to prevent all those who were convicted of some crime she would have written, then you would have simply written down who was convicted of a crime cannot run until the rehabilitation takes place. But you didn't write it. You've been messing around, you've been messing with once, you've been messing with twice, and in the end, the government has sent you an amendment that you've then, with a little correction, directed us to where you're definitely involved, and now it's quite clear what you wanted, and you want to stop Mr. Vlahusic from running. How illogical this is you will see, for example, from the fact that you have numbered a whole series of crimes for which relatively mild penalties are prescribed. And the crimes involved in discrimination are not an obstacle to running. Well, there's no obstacle to you running, for example, or the crime of kidnapping in your qualified form, which results in the death of a kidnapped person for whom a 15-year prison sentence has been prevented. That's not an obstacle, I've been telling you since day one. I'm pointing you to this crime. So I referred in the first and second reading on committees a whole series of objections to what you've been up to. But you didn't accept them. In the end we came to what you wanted to vote for it, we will launch proceedings against it before the Constitutional Court not because we protect criminals, but because we protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. of the foolish laws and you will afterwards rebel as you always do. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Well, everybody's happy, everybody's happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22362	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22363	Thank you, Mr. President. You have violated Article 238, and today you have unequal criteria in running your session. You just told your colleagues Pernar to sit in his seat and this isn't bothering you there. There are MPs standing there who can remember. Half of them are sitting there in places where members of the government should sit. It didn't occur to you at any time to tell them to sit in their seats. And the other thing, you just warned your colleague Sauch about throwing us all the time, so let's just say, let's say that my colleague Grumo is now yelling at Pedji Grbino all the time, so it didn't occur to you to say don't throw it away. And all right, I don't normally mind that, but then stick to the uniform criteria as you stick to the whole day and don't train us to be strict.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22364	I'm supposed to warn you this morning since you've directed it to me. I warned several times this morning and then by last name of one of the representatives of the HDZ Club, you from the SDP Club or from the midfield clubs I didn't warn you by last name I did. So now that again after three warnings, I have warned one of your representatives by last name that it is the exact same criterion. The second thing, when I noticed that the representative of the bush was trying to throw himself in, I looked at it and that the representative of the bush hadn't stopped, I would have warned him equally. I'm trying to keep the balance exactly the same, and really if I ever make a mistake, then it's not intentional, and what's really important today is that all the things you put on my burden aren't right. I'll always admit my mistake the moment I make it. She can only be unintentioned. And as for Mr. Pernar, thanks to Mr. Pernar's activity, I know where he was sitting, so I found it unusual for him to vote the moment he showed his card, and I accepted my mistake and thanked him. I don't see what the problem is. The moment I teach you absolutely all the places and do something wrong to me, I'll react as well. Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. The Live Wall Club reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf, Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22365	Thank you, Chairman. I think that before any amendments to the Electoral Law concerning this issue of candidacy should touch the issue of the judiciary. Unfortunately, our judiciary is unable to solve cases of serious crime. I'll give just a few examples of why I think the judiciary is bad, and then I'll look back on the fact that according to the verdicts of that and that kind of justice, certain individuals can or can't run in the elections. The only criterion in this law is whether there is a final verdict. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a final verdict against Eve Sanader? It doesn't exist. So in the next local election in 5 months, Ivo Sanader will be able to run. His sentence has been annulled. Let's move on. Nadan Vidosevic, not three years after the indictment, did the trial begin. Will Nadan Vidosevic be able to run? They will, no problem. And what's going on? It happens that the big fish, the big fish that deal with big crime, have good lawyers. They have connections. So they're connected and their cases are either not processed by the DORH, so the DORH is covering them up like he did with the same knowledge for five years in the drawer. And at one point after five years he decided to put it on the table. And in other cases, they're being prosecuted in the case of, say, Sanader, but they're not able to, so to get to a verdict that wouldn't be later challenged by the second-degree court, which is, say, Sanader's case at the Constitutional Court. And here we are in a situation where some people who are objectively more wronged can go to elections. For example, Mr. Peja coat of arms cited the rape situation, i.e. I'm sorry for kidnapping with a fatal consequence. So if someone says it's on now. Well, I'm glad it's on. But what I'm saying is, Mr. Kalmeta will be able to make the election, and so will Mr. Kirin of Virovitica, who has admitted to abuse of office and authority, and then later withdraws recognition, and some other people will not be able to run. For example Andro Vlahusic. In my view, if, in the case of Andrija Vlahusic, the money was eventually returned to the Dubrovnik City budget, or if there was no real damage, the resulting man was convicted, I do not think there is a need to impose such a radical sentence for conditional convictions. So in this case, he's banned from the election. But as far as DORH is concerned, you have the case of Milan Bandic, who has hundreds of criminal charges against himself. None of them were processed until a year ago. And why wasn't she processed? It's a trick question. Well, because he was part of the SDP. Until Milan Bandic was part of the SDP, Milan Bandic had no legal problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22366	I would ask the MPs to really discuss the water outside the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22367	But the moment Milan Bandic left the SDP, charges against him emerged. But what? There have been no charges of a key matter, so a water purifier, where 600m euros were taken more than was to be cost. That's four and a half billion kuna, that's almost one city budget, but he's told that he gave the stands, that I don't know who he's got. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how many people in this country have infected HDZ and SDP? So who are we kidding and the Bandic you judge for it? I think it's a circus. Like abuse of position and authority. I would like to say that DORH functions selectively, politically, and does not often deal with essential crime, but rather deals with what corresponds to the current government, or the future government, and the fact is that HDZ and SDP are changing each other in power, and then they do not process each other but only use these trials to eliminate their former members. They are strong, so especially from HDZ are cruel to former members. And then we come into a situation of these amendments to the law and the question arises whether or not to support them. Most MOST colleagues will say you need out of support. And I will say that, I would gladly support them, dearly, if the judiciary were independent, if the DORH were to process non-selective criminal charges regardless of whether it was criminal charges against Zoran Milanovic or me for graphics. However, we see that the DORH is unfortunately not independent, that the courts are not independent and that ultimately the result of these amendments to the laws will be such that people in position will be able, people who hold what legislative authority is currently what the judicial apparatus will simply be used to eliminate their political opposition. These are serious topics, and unfortunately here we have since we've been in the Parliament, since I've been in Parliament, and we haven't debated the state of justice once, the state's attorney's report hasn't been put on the agenda so far. So years pass, we see that State Attorney Dinko Cvitan is signing indictments, for example, graphics, thinks it's in the public interest that this is being processed and I'm honestly asking if it's possible tomorrow to amend the electoral law and say that those who are convicted of graphics are the same that they can't run. Here's a simple way of getting rid of your political opposition. Add graphing to that broad catalogue and solved problem for the entire Assembly. And no more Pernar, and everyone's life will be easier, you won't have to listen to mine, according to a member of the HDZ squadron. And the fact that citizens are forced to listen to your escapades for 25 years is nothing, ate the donkey wolf as they say. When all of this is taken into account, it is clear that citizens will ultimately not profit from this law, because the basic meaning of the Electoral Law is the democracy of the electoral process itself, or that citizens choose who they want. In my opinion, citizens have the right to choose someone if they want to because you had a situation that when he was at a time of communism then politically mounted against people who thought pro-Croatian and all those people who were Marko Happy, Franjo Tudjman and the team would not be able to run for the communist authority to put in the Electoral Law the criminal acts they handed over to them. And actually I remember the case again I'm going to tell Bobby Sands a Catholic from Northern Ireland who went to the polls from prison and people voted for him as an act of political process because they believed that the trial he was in was politically mounted, staged, and that he was unjustly convicted. And since Bobby Sands refused to wear a prison uniform, and they forced him to wear it and he strike hunger and he died as an agent in the British Parliament strike hunger in prison. It was probably the first such case in the UK. In other words, they are being conducted in Croatia politically mounted processes, charges are being filed here in my case I have had the opportunity to see for two graphite, minimum damage, and where the damage is a million-dollar there are not the charges being filed. I've been written by people who, for example, have damaged RBA cooperatives, they say we've filed criminal charges against RBA cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22368	I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22369	You got it. So I just want to say the essential point is that the judiciary is not independent, that serious things are not processed and that even those judgments that are made are often questionable in nature. You have a case like Tomislav Horvatincic after he killed and four people have never been sentenced to jail. And let's say someone who committed a benign crime, for example. possession of marijuana, if he went to jail. For example. for some small quantities. And then, on the basis of such justice and judgments, we decide who can run and who won't. Tomo Horvatinčić will also likely be able to run in these elections, regardless of all court proceedings etc. that is to say, the consequences of his actions. I simply don't see the point in these amendments to the Electoral Law by myself should change some other things, let's say we should change a state attorney who doesn't do his job, who does things that aren't his job on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Law on Courts means to ask the question of who these people are sitting in a constitutional court, who are these people who set Ivo Sanader free because our people are loud to justice. Our people don't care what the Electoral Law will be, our people are interested in whether cases of serious crime by politicians who have ruined our citizens will be sanctioned. We see that not only will they not be sanctioned, but these people will also be able to go to the elections because here the criterion is only a powerful verdict. And here I am asking at HDZ who has the power of judgment? The only thing I remember of being legally convicted was Cobankovic. I mean right-handed, he's got a peel of potatoes, like. He was sentenced to charity and he will be able to run for office after these changes to MOST. You know why? He was not convicted or sentenced to parole, nor was Cobankovic convicted or sentenced to parole, he was given to peel potatoes. That's a shame 14 million kunas, that money was shared by him and Sanader who cares, girls, we're going to the election. And then the one who took the 14 million kuna he confessed will be able to vote, and Andro Vlahusic, who won the parole even though it was a small amount, although that amount was returned to the budget he couldn't. And they both did what? Both have abused the position of power, but Mr. Cobankovic is in the HDZ party that is currently passing the laws, and Andro Vlahusic is not, and that is actually showing you the will of the majority over the minority, and thus this budget will be made. And I don't understand why I'm here right now. I have one honest question why we just didn't have a united vote for all the amendments. We could have said it at once.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22370	Representative Pernar, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22371	You got it. I think that this law, which means the amendments to the laws proposed in the conditions of such a judiciary, such a DORH, means institutions that are simply unfair in the court, will ultimately result in a war against democracy, a war against the will of the people, and will in fact deny voters the vote for those they wish to vote for, and on the other hand, those offered as alternatives will see that they are not necessarily better than those who are forbidden to run. And I would just point out that the worst crime, which is the Law on the National Bank that the company in the CNB systematically implements, is not covered by this law, it is not even in the Criminal Law because it is not forbidden to place our country in a dependent position on a foreign source of money even though we are in a dependent position a foreign source of money because the CNB is not broadcasting its money, and those who support such a policy will never be convicted. Don't shout, it's not a topic! That's the important thing, gentlemen of the HDZ, please. He won't be convicted and not only won't be convicted but he'll be able to run. And yet again, someone who was guilty of something, say, an act of banishment, will be denied that possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, consider all this and I appeal to you not to support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22372	Thank you, Agent Pernar. The first representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Saucha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Pernar, you have unfortunately failed because this is not about general matters of justice or justice or of the situation in our judiciary. This is about something much more ground floor, a cheap reckoning through institutions that shouldn't serve it with one person, and that was clear from the first moment. It was clear that in the end you would somehow get through, that you would be able to solve your frustrations, colleague Kristic, that you couldn't beat that man for whom I honestly don't care because we ultimately didn't support him in the Dubrovnik mayoral election. But if you're going to have to ask for this poor help from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you'll probably have to come up with a whole ministry. After the first time you've fucked, like the second time, you've come to ask for legal help at the ministry. Now you've finally got a rescue formula that you don't have to put a picture of Mr. Andre Vlahusic here so that Mr. Kristic has a little more chance of winning the Dubrovnik City Mayor election. This is embarrassing, this is twilight. You set off as the best of intentions, I'm sorry, I'm replicating Mr. Pernar. Mr. Pernare...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22374	I apologize, Representative Sauch!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22375	They said that you had the best intentions and it started from the grave murders, from the beginning of war crimes to get to the point where a conditional verdict which is pronounced in the mildest forms of certain crimes, that and a conditional conviction is an obstacle. Gentlemen, you are in discretion not only with logic and morality but also with good taste. This is not justice, this is credence, this is my dears, this is MOST. When you can't step on an opponent in Sahr otherwise Tell me who's stronger. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22376	Representative Pernar. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22377	Well, yes, Mr. Saucha. That's the central problem. Inequity of the case law. So, Mr. Vlahusic was convicted on condition even though the damage to the city of Dubrovnik was not because the money he borrowed was returned. And Mr. Cobankovic of HDZ who stole a much larger amount from the state budget, which was never returned to the budget, Mr. Cobankovic received a fine of charity. Would you, Mr. Saucha, get a fine of charity and a peel of potatoes if you had sucked 14 million kunas out of the state budget? I believe you wouldn't, especially if HDZ were in power. And for sure, they'd send me away for years. And then such people moralize, and such people suggest changes to the law are apologising to argue that those who deal with crime are being banned from work, and it is known which party is responsible for 80 percent of the crime in the country, and at the end of the day which the party is self-convicted, or later the verdicts were falling, for the withdrawal of money, for a joint venture where the malts were not all its officials on the defendant's bench, etc., but they have protection, Mr. Saucha. If we were in the Living Wall dealing with HDZ, would our verdicts fall in the Constitutional Court or would we all end up in prison. Well, of course you'd end up in jail. But they're protected, they've covered themselves, and then in what processes, like now I'm being charted in the Vlahusic case, they're also a bizarre process where a man dares and there's no harm, and he's being thrown out of an election race. That's the kind of installation you're doing. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22378	Thank you. Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22379	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's colleague Pernar, you mentioned a variety of crimes associated with the amendments to these laws. You mentioned Mr. Karamark. I spoke to myself several days ago about whistles in our country who because of the non-functional institutions, especially the judiciary to the top of the USKOK, then called them fools because in some hope, they believed that justice would come, that justice would be served, that the institutions would do their job. They expose themselves, call themselves crime, whistles there, and in the end they only get hurt, and the culprits are generally not punished, so I call here on Mrs. Sonja Vlahek's case, the whistles from the Croatian post office who testified before the Municipal Criminal Court in the case of Sobol, about the links between Mr. Karamark and the withdrawal of that money. She's been beaten up in her time, of course for decades in trouble, harassed, I don't know what's happening to people, you have countless cases, as many as you have in the INA alone. So here I'm curious about when the Croatian institutions will finally function and when this will become a legal state because this is not a legal state because this is not a legal state, this is a state that isn't. I'm sorry to say that. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22380	The reply to the replica was requested by Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22381	Mr. Sincic, I'm glad you mentioned Mr. Tomislav Karamark's case. There is a book called the most powerful among the most corrupt of Domagoj Margetic. The HDZ gentlemen will say against Tomislav Karamark there is no final verdict, I will say not only that there is no verdict, there is no indictment. And it is known that this man was dealing with very questionable and profound things and that various things were being transferred to his cargo and, among other things, the withdrawal of money from the state budget or state-owned companies through his Sobola firm and where people and in court such as this lady from the Croatian Post Office had to give money to Karamark's firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22382	Agent Pernar, I'd really like to ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22383	I will, Mr. Petrov. But this is a topic, but now look at what the DORH is doing, so the DORH isn't dealing with the fact that Sobol was getting jobs from state firms in the same way as FIMI MEDIA, which is detailed in that book by the most powerful among the most corrupt, but rather by the fact that Ivan Pernar wrote 2 graphites. And then the question arises...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22384	Representative Pernar, please, at this point the topic of the debate on local elections is not you, so I would ask you to stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22385	But Mr. Petrov, you're taking my time. I'm sorry. I have two minutes, please answer me, i.e. Let me answer that. [[I'll make it up to you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22386	Agent Pernar, I have no intention of polluting, I will make up for your time, but I would ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22387	All I'm saying is that institutions are unfair and they work biasedly. And there's a better chance in this country that the DORH will press charges against Ivan Pernar than Tomislav Karamark for being the president of your party and knowing everything about you and I don't have that deep knowledge that I could compromise you with. And then they get on top of me, and then, God forbid, you fight corruption, and you serve the conditions for candidacy. In the elections you are the ones who control both DORH and the courts of the first degree, the second degree and the Constitutional Court because you installed your people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22388	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar. Representative Željko Lackovic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22389	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would very much support Mr. Pernar's exposure and I would agree with him that this bill is bad and it's bad because he won't solve the problem of running for questionable types in the election. That's actually what my colleague Pernar was going to say. We can also be sure that this law will be unintentional, perhaps as suggested by the SDP according to the MOST used for the elimination policy in Dubrovnik but that it will be used for political elimination wills because we cannot be absolutely sure of the fairness of the procedures conducted from our experiences with the judiciary. It was seen that when you are tried by the media through the press, the media that it is not productive then, you cannot eliminate the enemy politically but in fact raise it even more. And we as a club would very much support this law if you had one provision in you, which is that anyone who wants to run for political office must prove the origin of the property. And to see how in this House there would suddenly be very few of us left. That was mine, and I support my colleague Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22390	Before I give my word to Agent Pernar, a reply to the replica if you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22391	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I mean, Mr. Lackovic, everything you said, I agree with everything and the Croatian public sees it. The Croatian public is aware that the DORH is fully politically instrumentalised and that people like Karamark protects against being charged against them even though there are countless criminal charges. And in the case of my charming the alleged graphite, they find a public interest in processing. And then those who are politically instrumentalised, who abuse all possible institutions to get to power on the one hand, to protect their crime on the other hand, and to eliminate their opposition, politically on the third hand, they are the ones who are talking to us here today about honesty. They're the ones telling us about how they want unfair people out of politics. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ you're proposing these laws to us, so who are you kidding? Who do you do to suckers? Who do you work for, I dare say even to fools? The Croatian people didn't deserve this, I'm not going to tell the show, but to the tragedy that they have to look at it, and that at the end of the day, they're watching you, or you who brought the country where we are, where people are digging through the trash where they stand, where they freeze in line in front of the soup kitchens, you're the ones who are now talking to us about justice and honesty, and about those who are convicted and should not be allowed to run. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a farce, this proposal that you're offering us is the highlight of cynicism, and this is actually a slap, a shower, honest citizens who have been your victims for 25 years, and I won't say guilty or debtor because some of them have voted for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22392	Thank you. I'd like to ask the MPs for a little more patience. And I was just going to say so, sir, Agent Pernar, please. I was just going to say, so Agent Pernar has already begun his reply to the replica, that as far as the proposal by Representative Lackovic is really constructive, unfortunately here I am hearing him for the first time, I don't know whether the procedure or the amendment has been launched because here it is truly sorry if you have not attached the amendment because here on my part I agree that one of the things that needs to be resolved is whether someone wants to deal with the public activity of the origin of the property. But I'm sorry that you didn't propose that amendment at the time that it was possible. ... I'd like you to refrain from commenting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Zeljko Glasnovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22393	Dear President, I think it is, everyone would agree that justice is comprehensive, not selective. And to me, some here seem to be suffering from severe selective amnesia. What is Achilles' heel of all... the country's systems is corruption. It's a wormhole in our attic. But why do we only hear the selective names Sanader, Vidosevic, where are heads like Strok, Špiljak, Koncar who are not church mice? Now some heads have sold hotels in London 35m euros, which is below that icy santa that does not allow us the media of Croatian, not Croatian media to see what's going on. Why selective justice, so you have the former president, post-mortem aid, has been robbed 100 million there from the funds and robbed them, and the dead heads have been robbed. Here's the law, whatever it is, it's gotta start somewhere. Here's another one where I keep the victim's book, and I'd like you to keep your mouth shut, keep your mouth shut, talk jokes, here's the UDBA victims, assassins, these guys are walking around the city that killed them, they got $60,000 per murder, they're walking around Zagreb here and that network. But why are we talking Mr. Pernar about HDZ alone? What about the largest criminal organization in the history of Southeast Europe, which is the Communist Party of Yugoslavia whose successors are sitting here today?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22394	Representative Glasnović would like you to stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22395	I'll just repeat what I said, it's not justice selective but it looks like we have here in this House selective amnesia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22396	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22397	Well, Mr. Glasnović, let's be honest with each other. You tell us, Mr. Glasnovic, most of the members of the Communist Party that the party went to after the 90th? To HDZ, right in HDZ. Mr. Mikulic, who handed me membership in HDZ, was once a prospective member of the Communist Party. And we see today that he's still a prospective member.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22398	Representative Pernar, please don't... Representative Glasnović. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22399	Here are the specific names of the communists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22400	Representative Glasnović if MP Pernar, if you won't let me end this debate peacefully during I can do it differently. So I'm asking for order and peace for at least the next short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22401	Thank you. I'm sorry I'd just like to point out, Mr. Glasovic is angry at communist crimes I understand him, they unfortunately, no one who killed people in a period of communism, who poisoned them in prison none of them were ever convicted of that we were aware of. But we are also aware that the founder of HDZ was also a member of the Communist Party. So any lustration would eventually involve him. However, we return to the point, and the subject is such that the most serious crimes you mention have never been prosecuted, that for political reasons, some things are being processed and some are not being prosecuted, not depending on the severity of the crimes. And that's why I think that without taking care of the situation in the judiciary, without a serious debate on the judiciary, without being replaced by a state lawyer who's running these installed processes, without changing these corrupt judges, there's no easy step forward. And this debate won't solve anything, ladies and gentlemen. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22402	Thank you. A representative of Tudjman reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22403	Mr. President, this article 238 was injured since we do not have the injury that MPs should not insult the fundamental values on which the Croatian state was created. It is a lie what Mr. Pernar said that the largest number of members of the Communist Party or the Communist Alliance in HDZ are because this twists the truth about the Homeland War, it turns out that it attacked Croatia, who is the aggressor in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22404	Please, I'm asking the MPs for peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22405	Because the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia and the SK Movement for Yugoslavia who led the Yugoslav Army was an attack on Croatia and all these rebel Serbs from Mile Martic were further members of the Union of Communists and were committing aggression I'm not done yet. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And those who are members... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22406	Agent Tudjman, I beg you, Agent Pernar, please don't hold a session. Mr. Tudjman, I cannot allow you to replicate your other representative through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You delivered your opinion on why the Rules of Procedure was injured. Thank you. Representative Mikulić, you have also raised a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22407	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Pernar injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 238 talked about a subject which is not subject and also cannot offend MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22408	Thank you. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22409	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22410	No, I don't. This, because this isn't a replica. So I agree, and I warned Agent Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22411	So I'm sorry I have a minute to say that the President of the Croatian Parliament has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22412	No, I apologize, so you brought out why he was broken.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22413	No, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22415	If I don't have a right to a minute, you tell me, but I'll tell the Rules of Procedure that I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22416	Go ahead and say it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22417	I have no intention of entering the controversy, but it is yours to protect the MPs. So, you can't name names this way, especially because I want to say here in front of everyone that there are three, that there are three court proceedings on this subject. So one of the colleagues who recently called me apologized. When will be a powerful judicial solution I will present it before everyone here in the Croatian Parliament. Well, then, all those who act and talk and earn, let them see a powerful judicial solution that will be one or the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22418	Thank you. The reason I interrupted you is because I accepted that part and warned Mr. Pernar and I didn't want to let you replicate. Thank you for not replicating the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Pernar, you have really well pointed out the question to whom we leave it in the hands of the electoral will of Croatian voters. There are therefore certain surveys on citizens' trust in institutions conducted in all EU countries. The average confidence on scales from 1 to 10 in EU countries is 8, score 8. And the trust of Croatian citizens in the judiciary is a score of 3. Here sits Mr. Ronko, who heads the Committee of Representatives and ask him who most complains in the Republic of Croatia, and most complains about the situation in the judiciary. Ask the attorney general what kind of cases he's getting. She gets complaints about the judiciary every day. Finally, ask yourself if you trust the Croatian judiciary and if we have the right to electoral law, the will of citizens, to leave the democratic will of citizens, therefore to a society in which citizens absolutely do not trust all relevant indicators. I warn MPs of the possibility of manipulation and to take any one of you So I repeat once again, Croatian citizens do not trust the judiciary. [[/The President's intrusion: Excuse me. Mr. Grmoy's representative, Mr. Nikola Grmoy, for the third time. Go on.]] This shows all relevant statistics and analysis and let's be smart we don't leave what we now have in hand of those who might use the same power Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22420	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22421	Mr. Bunjac, thank you for your opinion and I am pleased that you respect the Rules of Procedure and that unlike some HDZ colleagues, you are reporting for replication and then you can talk for two minutes on the subject, or what I was talking about. And not like the gentlemen of HDZ who raise plates for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then have escapades, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22422	Representative Pernar, please focus on the subject and not interpret the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22423	And as for the subject, yes, well, the subject is an unfortunate judiciary. Four million of our citizens are hostages of this kind of justice because I honestly ask you that the judiciary works if a party like HDZ would be in power. Would the party eliminate from the political race of its political opponent? Unfortunately, we see that it is this election law that the party, its members who are being betrayed for the great some of those Croats, etc. and before they were, they whispered to me sitting here among colleagues from the SDP, you who yell against the communists said, so he was the president of the Zagreb Socialist Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22424	I ask you indeed, with the last warning, indeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22425	His colleagues are ratting him out, and I have to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22426	Indeed the last warning, stick to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22427	I will, Mr. Petrov. And I'm sorry that we're witnessing a festival of hypocrisy where actually, where people who are, where they're trying better than themselves, are moving not by political means than I've said to the amendments to the Electoral Law, mounted processes, etc. Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22428	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote because the debate is closed. To the vote on the proposal. Excuse me. I am voting on the amendments of the Most Independent Lists. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote 78 for, one abstention and 39 against, we have accepted the MoST amendment of independent lists and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Representative Maro Kristic. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22429	So, the amendment to the government is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22430	Amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22431	The amendment of the Government is therefore accepted in full and the amendment of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA is not accepted. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22432	Take it easy. Please wait. By doing so, the amendment of the Government is being adopted in full and becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Please read amendment number 2 of the Representatives Club and amendment number 2 of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22433	So we fully understand the intensity of the promoter of the Living Wall. We accept the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22434	This and the second amendment are being adopted and becoming the final draft of the law. Afterwards, the Live Wall Representatives Club handed over the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22435	So we fully understand the intensity of the motionors we intended their amendment to the bill itself, but the crimes that they suggested to be included in the double catalogue of criminal offences were, therefore, to the greatest extent possible, the crimes of a criminal nature, so they could not be included in this proposal unfortunately. We would like to see this law changed and that all acts of domestic violence become criminal acts so that they can be included in this catalogue in future amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22436	Proposer's representative take the floor? Representative Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22437	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Here I will remind only fellow MPs of the definition of hate crime Article 87 paragraph 21 of the hate crime is a crime, “a crime committed because of raciality, skin color, religion, national or ethnic origin, disability, sex, sexual commitment or the birth identity of another person. Such treatment will be taken as a difficult circumstance if this law does not explicitly prescribe more severe punishment." And there's violence in the family, and I'm sorry that you didn't at least partially accept these provisions, because I think someone who commits a crime of hate as well as someone who's a convicted domestic bully shouldn't represent other people. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-09-0.u22438	I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote who is in order for the proposed amendment to be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that the proposed amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law requires half the majority of all MPs 76 under Article 252. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law on local elections. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 6 abstentions and 32 against the Law on Local Elections, together with the amendments adopted. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Andrej Plenkovic and the members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With a moment of silence, please honor the first President of the Republic of Francis Tudjman. - A minute of silence - Thank you and praise him! As I announced, today's work is started with a debate on: - Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019 with proposals for financial plans of non-profit users for 2017 and projection of plans for 2018 and 2019: - Croatian Waters - Croatian Roads - Centre for Restructuring and Sales - Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund - State Agency for Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Proposal for a State budget and the financial plans of non-financial beneficiaries for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019 (consolidated). An explanation of the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal for financial plans of the extra-financial beneficiaries for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Budget law and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Due to the scope of the proposals, the proposals were published on the Croatian Assembly website and distributed to representatives' clubs. When adopting the State budget, the provisions of Articles 211 and 212 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on the Environment and Social Policy, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law according to which any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections shall not prevent the determined amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projection. In the course of the debate on the State Budget Proposal and the projections, amendments have been tabled proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the State Budget Proposal and the projections may be accepted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this respect, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to further explain the draft budget.
