ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22440	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and deputies, colleagues and fellow ministers and ministers before I begin to explain the proposal of the state budget for 2017 I would like to join the memory of the first Croatian President, Dr Franjo Tuđman, to whom we now mark 17 years after his death. And also reminding you that December 10th is International Human Rights Day. The draft budget in front of you for 2017, as you know, is prepared under specific political circumstances. This year's budget was adopted in March 2016, in June and July 2016 we witnessed decisions on the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament, held extraordinary elections for the Croatian Parliament in September, formed partnership and government in October, and in the context of these short deadlines we joined the repair of what was in some way disabled in terms of respecting the classic legal deadlines for preparing the budget for next year. In order to do the job within the deadline, we will allow for the regular adoption of the state budget for 2017 before the end of this year and thus ensure the smooth functioning of the public finances of the Republic of Croatia. The government received confidence in the Croatian Parliament a little less than 2 months ago, and during this period we showed both determination and responsibility and commitment to the management and management of the state, and I would first of all like to thank all colleagues and colleagues of ministers, their co-workers who worked to prepare the budget, particularly Minister Marić and colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry of Finance for the great effort that has been made to overcome complex tasks within these short deadlines. Also, I appreciate yesterday's speed and activity of the Croatian Parliament, all the committees that have met and since Thursday when we adopted the budget to date, so within just one working day to give opinions on this key document of the political priorities of the state. The draft budget includes achieving the important policy objectives I have presented in the Government's work programme while respecting and identifying objective macroeconomic constraints that we must respect in the conduct of fiscal policy. In particular, this means keeping the overall budget deficit significantly below 3% of GDP, more specifically at 1.9% of GDP level. When we add out-of- budget funds and the local state, then the planned budget deficit leads to a level below the expected result for 2016 and to a level of 1.6% of GDP, respectively. This budgetary result allows for the decline of the share of public debt in GDP to continue in 2017 and strengthens our arguments for exiting the excessive budget deficit procedure, as well as the growth of credit ratings. On the other hand, in the context of this total budgetary outcome, tax discharge has been secured and the expenditure structure has been defined which shows our determination to realise the government's social and political objectives. In the first place, I am thinking of achieving our objectives in the area of demographic renewal and respect for our employees for whom we have provided, in accordance with the possibilities, for the first time since 2009. We also took care of the protection of the rights and dignity of Croatian defenders. I believe that this budget represents an important step towards achieving social solidarity while at the same time strengthening fiscal stability and sustainability. The budget is prepared in an economic environment marked by economic recovery and our goal is to give this recovery an additional boost. With the tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs, we will allow them to remain at their disposal 2.5 billion kuna more than this was the case that the tax system remained unchanged. These funds will be released for greater consumption, investment and business activities and additionally multiplier action on GDP growth. At the same time, the reduction of deficits strengthens the assumptions for further reducing interest rates and thus reducing business costs. Despite our clear positive macroeconomic expectations, we remain cautious in our growth projections to show that even in the coming years, rationality and restraint in state spending will be our key priority. With conservative economic projections, we create conditions and space to allow faster growth of the economy during the coming years, just as we are predicting and doing for 2017, and this is a 3.2% growth of GDP that we expect will continue at the same rate in 2018, while in 2019 we expect in projections 3.3% of the government's political stability and favourable macro-economic trends give us an opportunity, but they also impose a commitment to implement comprehensive structural and fiscal reforms. The existing positive trends are in no way seen as a reason for relaxation. On the contrary, we see them as an opportunity to implement changes that will give an additional impulse to the growth of the economy. We therefore expect that the effects of this budget will give a clog to economies that will create new jobs with their work, ideas, innovations and investments, ensure greater economic growth and improve the standard of living for all Croatian people. And the measures we will implement in this direction over the next year will further strengthen this economic growth and potential. The total revenue of the budget in 2017 amounting to kuna 121.6 billion should be 4 and a half percent higher than the revenue from the budget rebalancing for 2016. For 2018, the total revenue of the budget is projected at €122.2 billion. As a result of the gradual strengthening of economic activity recovery and the increase in the absorption of the European Union funds by the end of the planned period, we estimate that the growth of budget revenue will be more pronounced and therefore total revenue for 2019 is projected at €132.3 billion. In 2017, the total expenditure of the state budget was planned to amount to $128.4 billion, which is 5.48% or 6.7 billion compared to this year's budget. In doing so, I stress that the increase in total expenditure reflects and withdraws funds from EU funds, as well as the increase in funds that Croatian farmers will receive from the EU's common agricultural policy. In other words, part of this expenditure increase is covered by the increase in revenue from the European Union budget and reflects the gradual increase in the benefits we enjoy from EU membership. In 2018, total expenditure according to projections will reach EUR 133 billion. A further reduction in the general government's budget deficit is expected to be 1.1% for the EUR 136.2 billion budget in 2019 and the deficit would be reduced to 0.8%. Such developments in the expenditure of the state budget will enable the fulfilment of recommendations from the Council of the European Union relating to resolution, i.e. exiting from the excessive budget deficit procedure. The government has sought to reflect the political priorities of our programme in the budget for the following year paid particular attention to strengthening demographic recovery, i.e. demographic sustainability, in particular by creating such a social economic environment in which young people will be able to start a family without difficulty, resolve the housing issue and achieve income from their work. We therefore significantly increase the amount of benefits for the other six months of maternity leave for which 150 million kuna is planned more compared to 2016. As one of the measures, we also plan to subsidise loans for the purchase of first property under 45 years of age. Tax reform that was adopted here in the Croatian Parliament in two readings is headed towards demographic renewal, and remains of young people in Croatia because it is even more pronounced to approve parents through the deduction for children. The government understands that growth in the economy and employment are the best demographic measures. When it comes to fees for citizens and households in the State budget for 2017, they form the most significant group of expenditures of the budget and are planned to amount to €46.1 billion. In that amount is the largest share of pension and pension income expenditure, which increased by 1.6% or nearly 600 million kuna in 2017 compared to 2016, which will reach a level of $37.4 billion. The pension, family and social benefits involved in these expenditures include expenditure which enable the indexing of Croatian defenders' pensions that have been stopped over the past years. This is followed by a clear commitment to the protection of the rights and dignity of Croatian defenders and their families, and a better promotion of their role in society. Within this group of expenditures, it is also important to highlight the funds aimed at benefits for unemployed and active employment policies, especially for young people. The importance of education, science and innovation, which are the foundations of modern and sustainable development, is also reflected in a significant increase of nearly a billion kunas that are being allocated to them by including decentralised funds. This budget strengthens both national and national security, respecting the growing security threats and geopolitical circumstances, thus contributing to the protection of national interests and the integrity of the national area, as well as the security and resilience of all our citizens. After more years of continuing reduction, we increase the defence ministry's budget to 1.23% of GDP, or more than 9% of GDP, compared to this year's rebalance. These funds will help to strengthen the defence capacity of Croatia, develop a system of national and homeland security, and what is also important to improve living conditions and working conditions for Croatian soldiers, officers and officers. By strengthening the homeland and national security, and the capabilities of our Armed Forces, we are establishing an effective system that can respond in partnership with our allies with the new security challenges surrounding us. This budget also respects the government's fundamental commitment to develop and implement the principle of solidarity. In the management of economic policy, we also took care of social justice and inclusiveness through providing adequate protection to vulnerable parts of society. In this context, the government has taken into account the arguments of the social partners, and the improvement of economic trends has established an increase in the minimum gross salary of HRK 3.276 for this year, which is an increase of 156 kuna and 5%, which is more than a cumulative increase in minimum wage in the last three years. We announced that the budget also provides funds for units of local administrations and self-government, since part of their revenues is reduced in terms of changes in income tax, and this is extremely important because in this budget we have provided for through decentralised funds of 1,650 million kuna, compensation measures of billions and 325, and aid of 925 million kuna, so in the total amount of four billion kuna aid to local and regional self-government units. The balanced development of all parts of Croatia is a permanent task of this government, and regional policy will be a policy of investment in the future, job creation, promotion of competitiveness and economic growth. So far, I have visited 15 Croatian counties and in all counties, regardless of which the party in power is this priority of supporting even and regional and rural development, especially in areas that were killed during the time of war aggression as well as in areas we call aided, as well as in areas of mountain and mountainous character, as well as in Croatian islands, a greater signal is expected and greater support from the central government. In this context, the government will approach the creation of a programme for the economic development of less developed and war-affected areas, aware that this is a prerequisite for preventing the eviction of the population and reducing the negative demographic trend. As I pointed out, the overall fiscal developments on both the income and the bulk of the budget will result in a further reduction in the share of public debt, i.e. within 85% of GDP in 2016, and in 2017 below 83% of GDP shares. It will also result in a trend in the deficit reduction, which will be in a position to meet all financial obligations towards the creditors who expect us in 2017. The budget ahead of you is a comprehensive tax reform, public procurement reform, and the measures that we will implement next year are aimed at creating a stimulating environment for the work of the economy, attracting investments, for the development of Croatian agriculture, regional rural development, demographic restoration, strengthening national security, education and science systems, and ultimately improving the standards of all Croatian people. I believe that this budget very clearly reflected the priorities that we have put into the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, that it is on the trail of the expectations of most Croatian people. So I urge you to support him and contribute in this way to the government's goals next year. To conclude, the continuation of fiscal sustainability, while promoting economic growth, is based on, in my opinion, a quality in terms of reflecting the priorities of the budget and also rational, given that all positive macroeconomic movements and environment as well as the data we have witnessed in the past days, we are still receiving with caution that a rational approach to the expenditure side of the budget is one of the key priorities of this government. I would now like to give the opportunity to Minister of Finance, colleague Marić, to explain in more detail certain aspects of the budget, and I invite you to adopt him in accordance with the constitutional deadlines of the Croatian Parliament next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22441	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives, colleagues and fellow ministers. As the Prime Minister said and I will try to explain some of the details a little more from the proposal of the State Budget for 2017. I will start with the figure the Prime Minister himself said in his presentation, which is that it is one of the basic macroeconomic projections and assumptions for the development of the 2017 budget for GDP growth projections of 3.2%. These 3.2% take and calculate the current moment of movement in 2016 our expectations and assumptions for 2017 and also include the implementation of the tax reform that we well know starts with its coverage 1.1.2017. As for individual categories of expenditure by the GDP, the largest volume and contribution to this growth comes from domestic demand for mainly personal consumption, which we project to grow from 3.6% and a 6.8% investment. The government spending growth projection is in line with this budget proposal and growth is foreseen from 1.1. It should also be said that we are predicting and projecting the growth of exports of goods and services of 4.6%, and imports of goods and services of 6.2% So in 2017 we are predicting and projecting a negative distribution of net exports to total GDP growth. And that's for sure for all of us, especially us in the government, but we think the whole economy must be one good sign that there is a need to change certain structures or encourage domestic production, a domestic economy in order to reduce that import dependence to a lower level. In line with these macroeconomic projections, let me just say, along with GDP growth projections, we have done, of course, consumer price projections, as well as that deflator, so what we are entering and taking into account in the projection of revenue. For 2017, our forecasts and projections are that this growth in the overall price level will be around 1%. As for the revenue side of the budget, total revenues are projected to amount to 121.6 billion kuna, which is an increase of about 4.5%. However, according to certain categories, it is certain that the total category of tax revenue that we project growth of 2.6% and moss should be particularly absorbed, of course, is the result of projections of macroeconomic ones that I have said, and are also taking into account our tax reform. The VAT as the highest income of the state budget is planned and projected at €46.2 billion. The VAT movements are largely affected by the projections of the movement of personal consumption, inflation, but also extends the scope of employment or wages. Special taxes and excise duties are projected at 15.2 billion kuna, which is 3% growth. The income tax for 2017 continues to plan the income tax segment at the level of the state budget, but we will certainly do so today and several times in the course of the debate as was the case with the tax reform. So when we make a comprehensive law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, the total income from income tax will be the income of the local state. It was projected in the state budget of around 2 billion kuna. The profit tax is projected at 7.2 billion kuna, also in line with the 2016 economic movement projections and implementation of tax reform, we have a 0.8% drop. Contributions are planned and projected to amount to 23.1 billion kuna, which is a growth of 3.7. It aids the largest part of the funding from European funds totalling 11.2 billion, which is about 33 per cent growth. Other revenues that involve profits from companies, hence profits from financial and non-financial assets, their own dedicated revenues from budgetary users, revenues from state hospitals from HZZO, etc. are projected at 14 billion kuna, down 2.3%. And finally proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets of 560 million kuna. As regards the expenditure side of the state budget in 2017, it was planned and projected to amount to 128.4 billion kuna. I'm going to have to use that accounting dictionary again for a little while as some of my esteemed colleagues like to interpret my exposure. So, this 128.4 billion kuna of expenditure foreign budget compared to the rebalancing in 2016 that this esteemed House adopted recently, is an increase of 6.7 billion kuna. However, out of these 6.7 billion kunas, it should be apostrophe that 2.9 billion kunas primarily relate to expenditures financed from their own and dedicated sources, mainly from the EU. They're a deficit neutral. The remaining 3.8 billion kuna increases from the so-called the general sources, hence those sources that create the deficit, should be apostrophe that in this amount of €3.8 billion is an amount of €325 million that will be transferred directly from the state budget to local and regional self-government units as a compensatory measure that we have talked a lot about losing income from local self-government income, local and regional self-government units in 2017. We are actually talking about 2.5 billion kunas of real cost increases in the state budget in 2017 compared to 2016. If we look at certain categories that the items individually recorded the largest increase from these general sources, we are talking about the increase in wage mass or expenditure for employees of 700 million kuna. Then, the prime minister said, therefore, we are also predicting an indexation of pensions and the inflow of new pensioners in line with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute projections. All 600 million kunas. 400 million kunas are projected to increase expenditure on the payments of different types of court rulings, which are naturally charged with the state budget, with regard to the lengthy proceedings of the trial and ultimately to the damages of the state budget or against the state budget. At the same time, €363 million is an increase in funding for the defence sector. 150 million kuna is an increase for Croatian defenders. We also predicted an increase for the total interest we are paying, although I will immediately say this way, that we will do everything during 2017 to continue the positive trends from 2016 and that this figure will be reduced by the end of 2017. I will remind you that, with a clear, transparent and sound management of public debt in 2016, in the budget rebalancing, we envisioned 318 million kunas less than the originally planned expenditure on interest. So we managed to save that amount in the state budget with our financial market activities. We hope to be equally successful, if not more successful in 2017. As for these expenditure foreign budgets, observed from the economic classification when we take all the resources, so the EU also helps both its own and its own, employee expenditures are planned and projected to amount to 26.4 billion kuna, as already mentioned an increase of 700 million kuna. Material expenditures are planned to amount to $12.3 billion, which is an increase of 683 million. Most of this increase refers to better usability and absorption of European funds from both the perspective of direct use, hence European funds and from the perspective of our component, i.e. national co-financing components. Also in this item, material expenditure is a good reason or one of the main reasons for the increase is, of course, increased detachment for the defence system, i.e. Homeland and national security. Also mentioned by the court rulings. Financial expenditure from the state budget is planned to amount to 11 billion kuna, an increase of 236 million kuna. I'm going to mention right here that I myself use very often, and that's also the exact information when we take a wider coverage of the state, so that it spends on interest on an amount close to 12 billion kuna. Subsidies are planned to amount to 6.5 billion kuna, which if we look at all the sources is an increase of 387 million kuna. However, when we exclude the segment of the European funds, we on subsidies have a reduction of 214 million kuna mainly and mostly due to the final or final phase of shipbuilding restructuring. This year, too, we provided for an amount of slightly less than 400 million kuna on the basis of contracts signed and generally restructuring of the sector itself. The largest increase in this sector of subsidies refers naturally to agriculture and what really needs to be particularly absorbed are direct incentives, i.e. direct incentives to our farmers, as well as rural development measures, which not only record an increase in the overall but mainly which is positive for mentioning the increase in the European component in total expenditure. The aid was planned to amount to 15.8 billion kuna, an increase of 2.3 with compensation measures mentioned to local and regional self-government units. This item also provides for a fund to help units of local and regional self-government amounting to 695 million kuna, also decentralised functions of over one billion and 600 million kuna to be financed from different divisions depending on which function is involved. So if we're talking about education from the Department of Science and Education, the Ministry of Health, Social Policy, or the Ministry of Interior for Decentralised Fire Department functions. As far as compensation for citizens and households is concerned, the largest item of these 46.1 billion is pensions. The pensions are planned at 37.4 billion, the majority of the pensions of 32 billion relate to pensions under general rules, so family, age, disability, while the remaining 5.4 billion relate to pensions under special regulations. Other expenditure is also planned to amount to €6.3 billion, which is the largest increase of 722 million due to the better use of European funds under various operational programmes. And I would particularly like to apostrophe here and a rural development programme that, in the total amount for 2017, is growing almost twice as much from a billion and 200 million to two billion and 300 million kuna in 2017. Finally, expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets and contributions under the possibility and state budget in the stimulated direct investment activities, so we assumed and envisaged certain capital investments in the system of science and education, in the defence, health, justice and the economy Given the short term, I only have two last sentences, so, summa summarum or when these revenues and expenditures are summed up and subtracted the planned and projected deficit of the state budget is 6.8 billion or 1.9 projected GDP, but when we add, of course, 6 extra-curricular users and local self-government, it is the final deficit of 5.6 billion kuna or 1.6% of GDP. [[Intruder President: Time.]] The financing account that is also ahead of you includes funding for this deficit, which is once again the lowest in our recent past, but also includes re-financing and a maturity re-programme of only 27.2 billion kuna from the state budget level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22442	Thank you. After exposure, we switch to replicas. The first for replicas came from a representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, after your opening presentation, you will understand from Zagreb, which was a flush, devoid of emotion, where you have not invested a shred of emotion to convince us of what you say as if you do not believe in what you have said. I have to tell you that I'm going to tell you what citizens full of emotion tell me every day, which is that you spend money we don't have. 7 billion kunas higher spending on the state budget. 2015-2019. Nine billion kunas of more spent money that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to repay through debt, which our next generations in the Republic of Croatia will have to pay back. On the other hand, unreally planned incomes that speak for us that are too high, which say you say you relieve citizens and entrepreneurs and tax revenues are 2 billion kunas higher. So now you tell me how it is possible to dissipate citizens and entrepreneurs if 2 billion kunas of revenue is higher. Unfortunately, you haven't directed that money, that 9 billion more expenses than in 2015 on pensioners, to those most needed with minimum wages. We see this little increase you've singled out you didn't want to support the SDP's initiative to make the minimum wage 3800 kuna. So you didn't target those nine billion kunas in those who needed it the most. And where you're going you can see the best from the budget. Your office spends 4 million kunas more per year from 8 to 12 you raised costs, 60% are higher costs for services, 30% are higher costs for material expenditures. So it's you who are wasteful and you spend most of it as the government of these nine billion kunas doesn't benefit the citizens but the waste of your HDZ government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22444	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22445	Comrade Maras, what do you think I'm going to do with your tone and style? I will speak exactly as the budget is spoken of and spoken soberly and rationally in the circumstances in which the country is located and based on very careful projections, very careful analyses and very careful expectations of economic growth. You're talking about how we haven't analysed budget revenues or expenditure well enough. Well, in the next year, the deficit will be less than ever, smaller than this year, smaller than this year. So this kind of demagogy that people are telling you something, look at how much we've shown social sensitivity right through the principle of solidarity in this budget all over the paragraphs. And when it comes to minimum wage, I said so in my speech, so you and your government have combined in the last 3 years to raise the minimum wage less than we do this year with this decision of 156 kuna. That's right, that's right. So, did you increase the minimum last 30th of last year by 90 kuna? Is that right? ... Oh, you don't remember very well, colleague Maras, much you don't remember. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, ask your colleague Mrsic if she wrote that decision on 9.0., is it bigger 9th or 1.5.6.? Don't sell me demagogy. And as far as expectations are concerned, this budget has been made very sober, very rationally and in my opinion very high quality and will meet the objectives of our economic programme, both in terms of economic growth and in terms of meeting all expectations through the principle of solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22446	Thank you for your response. Next to the replica, MP Zeljko Jovanovic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22447	... I welcome the Prime Minister and all the ministers. [[Specially enabled.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in your opening presentation, you said one parole, a parole on the importance of education and science for the future of Croatia, which is seen in this year's budget. Unfortunately, it's a colorful lie and an accounting delusion. I'll explain very clearly why it's true and why it's a fact. So, you said and we know well that budget expenditures are growing 5.48%, you said that the Ministry of Science, education will get as much as 1 billion and 600 million kunas more. That it's 11.2% more than in 2016. Unfortunately, it's a hoax and for the sake of the public, for the sake of all the educational staff, I'd like to explain what this is all about. So, in these 1 billion and 600 million alleged increases, there are 987 million kunas of decentralised funds that were being held at the Ministry of Finance last year and are now being transferred to the Ministry of Science and Education, which means that there is no increase. If, therefore, out of the 1 billion and 600 that you're talking, we subtract 987 million is 613 million, which is an increase of 4.2%. I repeat, budget expenditures are growing 5.48%, which means education is growing even less. But it's not the end of the story, if we work this 4.2% further, then we'll get to the point that in those 4.2% is the largest part of the college's own revenue, which means it's not an increase again because these revenues have not been made in the past as part of the budget. And there are still EU funds still to be withdrawn. Therefore, we come to the conclusion that your increase of only 180 million and 1% is even more painful when we look at the item of the ministry that is when we factor out 8 billion 80 million, which is 6.29% of the total budget and in 2015 it was 7.64%. Here's sober with numbers I'm proving that your education is back in place again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22448	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22449	Here is a sober and clear new 250 million kuna through decentralised funds, a major contribution to education in local and regional self-government units. The use of European funds, the use of funds from the budget, the continuation of education reform, education, science is a clear priority of this Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22450	Thanks for the answer. The next representative to report for the replica is Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, in your presentation several times you said that the government is in the design and budget, but also in the conduct of its policy is in fact guided by commitment to governance. I suppose it's out of the question that respect for the legal order is necessary. And secondly, you said that you paid particular attention to demographic restoration. In the circumstances of the increase in budgetary expenditures, we take even what Minister Maric said were net 2.5 billion and not 6.8 billion indeed, it is absolutely incredible that the proposal for the 2017 budget ignores the legal obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the following agreements and contracts signed for the realisation of a public-private partnership for the construction of schools and school sports halls. So this is the second year in a row that the Croatian government refuses to fulfil its legal obligations and thus brings a whole series of local self-government units into an almost unexplainable situation. All these agreements and contracts, namely the legal acts of the highest order, shall contain, inter alia, the possibility of revision of or termination of those agreements. In no case has it occurred, but the government simply acts like there is no real order and legal obligation. Some lawsuits have already been filed. All of them will lose you, all of it will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, in this draft budget you have 53 or 54 million kuna intended to subsidise the costs of building famous arenas. How is it possible for him to have funds for it and for schools and school halls he doesn't have? That's not a logic, that's not a good thing, tell the citizens that they don't have to respect the contracts they signed themselves when they're giving credits at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22452	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22453	Thank you, colleague Beus Richembergh. I talked to the mayor of Varazdinski about this subject, the subject is a little more complex and complex than you represent in your presentation. It is true that the agreements were signed, however, when you analyze them some of them were signed without the consent of the finance ministry and the finance minister. We're looking at how to solve this problem on both legal and financial terms. In no way does this mean that schools, the restoration of schools, their construction, the completion of financial obligations according to this model that was present for a time especially in the northwest of Croatia. So the model of a public private partnership isn't something we'll put aside and not solve. It is a problem that we will address only all services that are competent and at the Ministry of Science and Education in other ministries try to look at it in a quality way to get rid of it. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22454	Thanks for the answer. Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22455	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Let me include a little bit of my impression besides the intelligence of emotion. Here's if I had to describe this budget in one word I'd say he's jumped. Minister Maric jumped him as a golfer two before the registration, so I have a feeling. Short-term view of this budget, and you said it yourself is based on expectations and assumptions In that sense, he is in the given circumstances as he is. [[Intruder President: Please!]] However, in the long term, in order for the citizens of this country to have a safer ride, we only have your word to use when you say that this government intends to implement structural reforms. So, at this point, we only have two reforms, Mr. Maric's reform and the co-worker's reform, Ms. Dalic's pardon in the two areas. And other reforms actually I don't see either they've been stopped or they haven't started yet. In order for the state to move forward, and I guess we in the Republic of Croatia can agree on something together, you need to welcome everything, and your ministers, and your government, all the participants, and even the opposition to agree on key issues. So, that reforms are finally being implemented, because even when you mention today's reform, even people don't believe that word anymore. And even a folk proverb could read “in reform are short legs. ” On the spot for me to finish the picture. Minister Maric can still mutate sugar in water, lurk tires to make them look brighter. However, they are still bald. It seems to me that they're a little overcharged, and you've connected a little faster. So for the safety of the citizens of this country, watch your driving and start the reforms you've been talking about. Because I'm saying at this point we only have your word, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22456	Thank you. Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22457	Is your colleague Sagar in opposition or in power? Because I didn't understand from your question which way you're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22458	I'd like to ask the MPs to take...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22459	So, with regard to the golf of the two, the budget has not been budgeted, the budget has been done carefully in short, it has been done calmly with the belt that next year as a responsible member of both the EU and Croatia, which now has four years of political stability. I hope that your hand will contribute to that, too, to all the priorities and reform ambitions of this government. You can say here after less than 60 days you only have public procurement and tax reform. Which the government put on such a reform package in the first session. I'm giving credit to colleagues who worked on it in the past government, we haven't hesitated, we could have said it took us 100 days to get a little familiar with the subject, so we'd lose the whole budget year. We didn't do it. Therefore, our ambitions are very clear and very determined. The next step we will be doing, we will work as the Government of the Right Centre which is open to the real sector of the Croatian economy and we will aim to reduce all charges and parafiscal burdens on Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen because they are the ones who generate growth, they are the ones who generate new jobs. And in this respect you can expect a series of legislative proposals from this government next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22460	Thank you for your response. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22461	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. So while we're being sober and rational as you say you're explaining the budget, it all sounds very nice. But I would ask you to explain things to me and my colleagues and colleagues, but also to the Croatian public in a sober and rational manner. For example, the budget is based on me on unrealistic GDP growth, but let's put it aside. What I'm interested in is how you're going to explain to teachers, teachers, teachers that there's no money for their salary increases, but let's say that the protocol, that the Office of the Prime Minister's Protocol has an increase of 100% in budgets. How will you explain to the pensioners whose indexations are reportedly going, that the pension now amounting to 2250 kuna will grow only by 16 kuna. How will you explain to the units of local self-government, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors that as compensation measures, it is intended to allocate 1.3 billion kuna, and when the cost is estimated at 2 billion kuna. How will you explain to the catering and tourism sector that carries our GDP that you have burdened it with an additional billion kuna, and that on the other hand you are very irrationally spending that billion kuna. These are the answers that interest me and many of my colleagues, but also the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22462	Thank you. Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22463	I'm glad you said that we told a colleague, Hajdukovic. So for the first time in seven years after this budget, when it comes to the salaries of officials, state and public services, you have more than 700 million kuna foreseen. You know that the negotiations lead, that we will seek to find a solution, a solution with which unions will be satisfied and with which, in terms of sustainability and government, they will be able to fulfil their part of the obligations when it comes to 2016 and 2017. When it comes to pensions and here you have an increase of 600 million kuna. When it comes to compensation and decentralised funds and aids, they are not only 1.3, they are almost 4 billion kunas in total. So we've taken care of the whole and the compatibility of tax reform with everything we've foreseen in the budget for next year. And as for projections, they are growing, I think they are also based on the results we see this year, and on everything we expect and on the basis of our measures and the basis of the environment in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22464	Thank you for your response. Representative Milorad Batinic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22465	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and colleagues. My colleague, Beus, started with a replica, with the theme of the PPP of Varazdin County, the City of Koprivnica, and I will ask some questions. You said the budget was made according to the principles of solidarity, justice, in one word respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which, by not fulfilling these obligations signed by the previous government, cannot be read. Furthermore, I would just like to remind you, this project started in 2005 and so far all of the HDZ governments and she by 2007, and that Sanader, Jadranka Kosor, when we were in Zagreb with this, proposed simply refused. The conservative governments and now this right government also rejects obligations signed by the coalition government, so some things are not clear to me, or you are not credible in the work of solidarity, justice and compliance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, when it comes to the amount of about 20 million kuna, which is about some if I'm not wrong about 10% of the budget reserve. So we can't argue that it's not about the lack of money. Is this a political message to Varazdin County, Koprivnica, a political message from the north of Croatia, that is, citizens and citizens of that part of the Republic of Croatia? Furthermore, you mentioned in your address great assistance to local self-government units, compensation measures of 1.35 billion, and plus 900 thousand kunas of aid, which is 2,2 billion kuna, and you came to the aid of 4 billion kuna. Well, there's something wrong with that sum. Furthermore, do not add to the assistance of local self-government units of these 900 thousand kunas. It's according to special regulations, and 1.35 billion are compensatory measures. Well, I'd like you to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22466	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22467	Thank you, Comrade Batinic. We were together a few days ago to celebrate the Day of the City of Varazdin of St. Nicholas. That's when I spoke to the mayor, with the mayor, I've been informed since the last current morning and with the situation concerning Koprivnica. So, I'm just gonna repeat around JPP and school. So that's the topic that's being analyzed at the moment. We will find a solution that must be legally justified. Obviously, there are some different interpretations on the occasion of signing these agreements. When we have a complete picture, then we'll make decisions. This in no way, but in no way is a negative message towards the north-west of Croatia either to the Varazdin County or to the Koprivnica-Kristevina County. That's what I said in my speech, so far I've visited 15 Croatian counties. I'll visit these few in the next few days. On December 19th, we will have a meeting of the entire government with all the mayors just so the government can first-hand understand what are the key political project programme priorities of all counties and that then our activities at the level of all ministries can help them achieve these objectives. That's what's key. And as for the different sources of budget in terms of support to local and regional self-government units, all of them are 4 billion. That's what I said in my speech. If you want, we can explain this in detail later, so you can see how the number is taken – compensatory measures, decentralised means and help.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22468	Thank you. Anka's representative, Mr. Taritash, called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22469	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation you spoke about demographics. So we have the Ministry of Demography that is responsible for this painful Croatian story. And be it expected to see from this budget one system of measures. Because having only the Ministry is just one small point. However, there should be a series of measures that start not only with the birth of a child, but with kindergartens that can work in two shifts, schools that can be in one shift with education, employment and, of course, the housing issue. And now we come up with a housing solution and instead of one system of measures and one message from this budget to see what housing means and what it means to encourage housing in demographics, you've decided on a short-term measure, a one-year measure, a measure where only a certain number of our fellow citizens will be able to apply in one year for one program that we've only heard about, but we haven't had a chance to see where a half-year-old loan will be subsidized and where there are a series of questionnaires above all our heads. The instructions are in this case if we really want to encourage demographics and have this problem of "white plague" that hasn't happened since yesterday, which is a long time ago, then we have to have a system. This isn't the system, it's like the fire's on fire, and you and the pot go around and put out that fire. And there's this one question that really is the right place to ask. Which means when we pay someone half of the credit from the budget for 4 years, he says at 5 or 6 years I'm leaving Croatia – he doesn't pay any more credit, he stays apartment and we give the flats back to the banks. It seems to me that this is not a system of measures for demographics, but a system of measures to help banks again. Thank you very much. Just one second over the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22470	I'm warning you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22471	Thank you, Representative Dark-Taritash. So, the fact that we have already formed the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy in this way. We sent an institutional message. We are now sending through the budget a message of financial measures, and in the mandate of this Government we will develop exactly in a systematic and permanent way the entire catalogue of measures that will help resolve the current issue of Croatian society, which is the fall of the birth rate and the issue of demographic renewal that is present in all parts of Croatia, and when it is further put into the context of the eviction trend, then it is clear that all together, regardless of our position or opposition, we find solutions that will change these trends or stop. When it comes to housing, I think this measure that we have cited is, therefore, subsidizing under the age of 45 that I've been talking about, extremely important and extremely important. It is not just a one-time measure, it is one support in this context and tax reform that is extremely important and has come across great approval and support. And secondly, what is important, and in its activities Minister Kuščević will spend the following year continuing with POS's apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22472	A representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22473	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister. Did I hear well at the beginning of your presentation in the third or fourth minutes that you mentioned conservative budget planning, the word conservatively? The word conservatively with 5.2 billion kuna revenue increases, 6.7 billion kuna expenditure increases, GDP growth projections 3.2% and the word conservative at the time when the Italian banking system is on the collapse, and let me remind you that the two banks holding most of the Croatian markets are just the banks of Italian owners, when one of these banks is sold, when Croatia is still in excessive deficit measures you call this budget conservative. It reminds me of an event from the past or from history. In 2007, 2008 also... finance and then escape, then escape to Celevec, and perhaps 2018. that escape will be in the European Commission and then we will again get a new prime minister or Prime Minister who will have pea salad, potato salad, and we will have a crisis tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22474	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22475	Preservative projections. I think you've analyzed, you may not have had enough time, but if you'd analyzed all the documents that have been sent to you, and in particular the reasoning of the state budget, then you'd understand how careful, how careful this document was invested in preparing, the documents that essentially only really show what the priorities of any government or any policy are. And in this respect, this story of the numbers you're saying that I say very clearly to the whole public, 2.5 billion that's an increase in expenditure, the deficit will be less than this year, about these pea salads and other illusions that you're talking about who loves her, but there will be no crisis taxes, and we will come into a situation that through dialogue with the European Commission as well as a number of other members involved in the excessive budget deficit procedure, it is so called in their full name, that we are in a situation that, by all these measures and also by this budget, we come out of it because this is the objective of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22476	Thank you. Representative Sasa Djujic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22477	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister. You said in your statement that this budget provides funds for subsidising the first real estate loan and that tax reform is on the verge of the government's demographic policy. Now, I'd believe it if you were the measure when you introduced that loan subsidy measure, then you just introduced the first real estate tax. But we have a situation that in 20 days our fellow citizens, young families in Croatia will have to start paying taxes on the first real estate on average of 30 thousand kuna, and you are now offering them on a long stick some sort of compensation measure that you don't even know for yourself what it looks like. Our minister, when it comes to the debate on tax reform in this House, when we point out the problem of introducing first real estate taxes, then the second day express in the media, the minister comes out with some measure where I don't know, wants to last a year, wants to last two years, wants to include a thousand and a half citizens, wants to include two thousand citizens, how much will be subsidized, as far as they won't, is essentially a feature of your entire government, the government's subsequent mind, because when the problem arises, then you later remember how to solve it, some half-decision. You said you were conducting decisive reforms and moves. So you firmly introduced this House to, say, this government of yours, and then you reformed it after only seven days when you remembered that you needed, I don't know, the Ministry of Real estate, so you didn't need the Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship but only entrepreneurship, so you decided to introduce a tax on basic supplies, so what under public pressure reformed that decision, so you gave up on it, etc. That's the same thing with this first real estate subsidisation subsidy. I'd believe in your intentions if you first introduced that measure, if you knew what it looked like, I'd like you to tell me now in response what it looks like and who it's going to hit and that's when you introduced the tax. But exactly what you're doing is the opposite of what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22478	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22479	Here's a little bit. So contrary to your qualifications, the government has made full access to the whole reform process, and therefore the tax reform and measures carried out by Minister Kuščević, who, along the way, have been very clearly announced and integrated into our electoral programme. What is clear is that in these less than 60 days we are trying to come up with most of those proposals that were mature for the procedure, and the rest of it will be seen in the mandate that lies ahead. Therefore, there is no ex post logic, no logic that would be against the interests of young families. With tax reform, we have facilitated the situation for those who have children, therefore the measures that we look at combined and fiscal resources and tax reform and activity related to subsidising the acquisition of the first real estate should be seen in the package, not fragmented, and that is the only way you can understand the message we send to young families.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22480	Thank you. Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22481	Your Honor, Mr. President. You deceive the public, you deceive the public with a 5 percent increase in gross minimum wage. Those who did your calculations, I think you can fire him immediately because there's no increase of 5 percent of gross minimum wage. According to the State Statistics Institute, the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia for the first nine months is 7,729 kuna. Share the minimum wage with the current one, it is 40.3 per cent, not 38.9 per cent, and the government's proposal is 42.3 per cent, so the increase in minimum wage is only 2 per cent. If we premise that wages will grow in Croatia 1.9 to 2 percent, you de facto freeze the minimum wage on the share they have had so far, there is therefore no significant increase in minimum wage. I note that despite the economic crisis, the SDP government has increased the minimum wage and that now that our situation is better, the economy is better, that we should have courage and step forward and instead of giving the rich workers in Croatia more than they have now in net minimum wage. I'm sorry you didn't take such a step. You could have given the regulation 45 per cent of the average Croatian salary. This would be 3,478 kuna, and in 2018 3,864 kunas so that our workers who receive minimum wage note that they are most women, have more than they have so far. So they fooled the public. It's not a minimum wage growth of 5%, it's just two percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22482	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22483	There's no public deception. Five percent of what happened before, you know that yourself. I've already said in my statement that in the three years you've had a cumulative look, you've increased the minimum wage less than we've done now. We have made a step that is important, which is possible, which is real, which is not created this way by some kind of creation on a circle, is done with the consultation of social partners, making sure that one important message is made to those who unfortunately have minimum wage, which is certainly not enough for a normal life. However, we have taken care only to see what the atmosphere of competitiveness is like for companies, precisely those in which people with minimum wage work in view of the environment. And that's why this step by 43 percent, 42.9 percent compared to the average salary, when you look at it comparatively, in the European Union in terms of the percentage where the step is in the right direction. And we'd be glad we could go one step further at this point. This is a decision after only less than two months of government work. I think it's important, that she's brave, that she's bold, that she's going in the right direction. If the economic opportunities next improve as we expect, we will make new decisions that will take further steps. He's been in front of us for four years. The message of 156 kuna gross at the moment was very bold and courageous and social.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22484	Thank you. Representative Marko Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22485	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. President of the Croatian Government, here through this budget we are increasing revenues as we have heard of 6.7 billion kuna compared to 2016. And what are we doing to local self-government? Local self-government in this same relationship loses 800 million kuna. By compensatory measures, you have predicted only, I stress: only, a billion and 300 thousand kuna. Nor have you taken into account the potential growth from income tax that should have been given to local self-government, nor have you compensated for the loss of 120 million that local units lost due to the company tax. Taxes on companies that could and should not have been introduced, and there has been a certain incursion in the autonomy of local units. Who's gonna get the most of it? Of course, those local units with the lowest original incomes, and most of them in northern Croatia, have the most in Krapina-Zagorje County. See the report of the Institute of Public Finance where you will see that these local units mostly have their original incomes per capita from 1,550 kuna to 2,600 kuna. One of the most developed municipalities in the Republic of Croatia Hum na Sutla is the 201st municipality by these original incomes per capita. What am I saying that for? Because 90 per cent of their incomes have income tax, and 90 per cent of their budget is legal and then you have the 10 per cent remaining for municipal infrastructure, stays for education, stays for economic promotion, stays for tourism. All of this is going to have to be reduced unfortunately. Please comment on that. And one last sentence. Yesterday we received this extensive document on page 718. Look, is that enough time to prepare? In the smallest municipality you must submit a budget to the city councils at least five days before. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22486	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22487	Okay, this is now the third, fourth question concerning compensation measures in local and regional self-government units. I think I answered that. And as for the speed of preparation, I thanked both the high House and the committees yesterday for responding in these time frames that were available. I think that all resolutions, all experts, all ministers and ministers have made a great effort. If we had more time in terms of the constitutional deadline, we could have had this debate longer. However, we tried to make a quality and rational budget as quickly as possible, and I hope you will support it. In the years, we'll have more time to keep things in line with the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22488	Thank you. Representative Branko Grcic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22489	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Prime Minister. After this brief debate what we can determine this budget has a hole already at the beginning. And that's the hole you have to close with the amendment. It's quite clear to you and it's clear to you and I'm actually thinking why you didn't tell people in the introduction immediately. So this hole weighs at least 700 million kuna and related to the negotiations you conducted yesterday with the trade unions in education. And according to announcements, we expect the deal to be closed on Monday. But that's not all. This hole is at least 700 million more and it is related to the rights of people in the public sector belonging to the collective contract and it is about regressions and Christmases for next year. So the question is, where is the amount, why isn't it in the budget, or did the government actually assume that in the negotiations that follow with the unions, it would throw things out of the collective agreement. So it is very serious things and I would certainly like to hear from the Croatian public today from you the answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22490	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22491	You saw that we predicted 700 million kuna, so for the first time since 2009. Since conversations with the social partners are still ongoing, this is neither the place nor the time to talk about what the final agreement will be. Everything we've done we've done to valorize, respect, honor our employees in both public and public services, and that's where the talks are being held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22492	Representative Miro Bulj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, we are all talking about regional, even development, the fact is, Minister Maric knows that 35 municipalities and cities are indexing 2014. The Regional Development Act, passed by the government of Zoran Milanovic, unfairly expelled 35 cities and municipalities. It was promised at the beginning of the previous government that a new indexation would be made in 2016 which would be much fairer, however, has not been adopted. 35 municipalities and cities that once had great human potential, this is the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, the Dalmatinsko hinterland today are dead, greater damage has been done to them in the last 20 years than during the Turkish Empire, no children's salary, no water supplies, have been declared developed areas. Minister Maric, with rebalancing, has given some compensatory measures for these areas ten million kuna. However, neither now in the budget nor now in the budget are mentioned. Which is why I would ask Minister Maric to answer me because he knows the matter, and we also had meetings between me, General Krsticevic and these mayors with Minister Maric where the solutions were promised and I do not see those personal solutions in this budget. Fair indexations for even development and a demographic picture of these areas are promised year after year. In this way you are only centralized, continuing to centralize the country to one city, which is Zagreb, everything else will be burned. Please, Minister Maric, the Honorable Prime Minister, look at these parts, is not just enough as the previous Government to come to Sinjska Alka in the days of the alka. There's got to be an alkare downstairs to be born of the alkars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22494	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22495	Yes, it is necessary to go to Sinj and when it is not just an alka. Here's the alkars were with us this morning. It's not just about the Dalmatian Zagora, it's about Lica, it's about Gorski Kotar, it's about a number of areas which, unfortunately, were occupied at the time of the war on Croatia, it's about a large number of territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we have the budget and the other measures. We have the Ministry of Regional Development working on a new development index. We have in the plan to set up a management in the Ministry of Aided Areas, we have a series of measures that we will implement in the coming years in order to implement a concept on which it is founded, 30% of the European budget to be based on a balanced regional development applied to the Republic of Croatia by combining the funds that we have at national level with what we will withdraw from the European level, and this will apply to fellow Bulj and to the end from which you come, to the Cetin region but also to a number of other areas in the Republic. Therefore, we have no idea the logic of the burned country, and we have no idea how much attention this government is paying to all Croatian counties and all Croatian regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22496	Representative Stjepan Kovač reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22497	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation you discussed the assistance of local self-government units and in essence the local self-government units will again be abolished because, as Col. Weligaj said, you took our tax on the company and also in those compensatory measures that you mention is not expected revenue growth included and that means that we will be cut off for about 800 million kuna. It is taken again from local self-government units and, on the other hand, there is no concrete project in the budget for Međimuri. But that's why when we talk about rationality, I'd like you to explain a little bit of this in the budget, these increases. The Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia increases 33.3%, Law Office 75.8% increase, Protocol Office, Government Support 105.8% increase, Central State Office for Central Public Procurement increases 40.2% and I could count because it really has a lot. So I'm wondering if this means new employment in a holding machine, and some projects for local self-government units aren't there, so I'm going to put the amendments on and I believe that you're going to take off these items to encourage the development of units of local self-government and their neighborhoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22498	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22499	Well, here's the fifth replica of local and regional self-government units, and I think we've said it all, so there's a lot more resources than you're suggesting. As for the very budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, after many years, we will go to the reconstruction of the Hall in which the Government is sitting and here are many of your colleagues who were ministers who know what state it is. We decided to settle it this year because I think it's a debt, so if you want to go to cultural heritage, and the monumental heritage that we have here on Mark's square. As regards all other items, they focus on better functioning of the government services and when it comes to the Central State Public Procurement Office, it monitors the logic of the new law, which was also addressed in the parliamentary procedure. We believe that this law is of great importance, so for a merger of public, state and what we call economic operators on the market and that it is essential to combat corruption in Croatian society, and therefore this law was also one of the priorities that we put in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22500	Thank you. One replica was sent to Minister of Finance Zdrav Maric. Representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22501	Thank you, President of the Parliament. When you spoke about tax reform and when you spoke about compensatory measures, I am interested in the expected growth of income at unit level of local self-government if we put it in the context of budget growth means about 4 to 4.5% with some units having fewer, some more. In view of the growth in income, tax revenues are based on 2015 on 2016 and the trends that follow. Well, I'd like to be clear and for the sake of public interest and many environments, would you include that in compensatory measures? Because that would be correct on the grounds that tax reform is expected to lose. In particular, they can speak for the third electoral unit north of Croatia or the northwest of Croatia where the pay averages are far lower than the average of the Republic of Croatia, and especially now with the rise of the untaxable base of pay to 3800 and the pay average is at that level. It's quite questionable how much we're going to make in our budgets. I am therefore wondering whether you will compensate only to the level of execution in 2016 or to compensate for what would be objective, which would be normal, which would be fair to calculate certain growth. Make it equal to 4.5% of the national budget's revenue growth. That's what I'd like you to tell us and the methodology of how you're going to figure that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22502	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, according to the provision of the State Budget Act for 2017, which we will discuss as a second point after the budget, it is precisely specified, so up to 15 in the month for the previous month. The difference in income from income tax compared to the same month of the previous year. Therefore, no correction is provided for the potential growth of income from income tax itself. At the same time, however, it is necessary to say one other thing that, and certainly, tax reform as we have proposed, and what the Croatian Parliament adopted will mean both economic and general activity enhanced on all units of local and regional self-government so that additional revenues will be generated. As far as the total budgets of units of local and regional self-government for this year are concerned, I think we all know very well that the results are really good in terms of their final result. For the first nine months, local self-government has recorded over a billion kuna surplus, but given the recent changes and corrections in the income tax system when there was no such mechanism, compensating certain units of local and regional self-government are in a situation that they do not have enough resources to co-finance European projects. Therefore, this mechanism which we have provided not only to ensure the sustainability of their budgets but, of course, also to ensure the sustainability of certain items, because this revenue or compensatory measures to be transferred to local and regional self-government units will in 2017, regardless of the state budget's aid being treated as exceptional revenue. So they won't go into restrictions normally for mayors, mayors and mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22503	My apology to representatives Nadia Turini-Djuric sent a request for a replica to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22504	Thank you very much. I'll stop being surprised one day when you start skipping me regularly given some debates since yesterday. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament and Mr. Prime Minister, what I personally care about behind me has no idea of where it is actually going, or he does not show it through me, I would say a single item in the budget in that essential sense. So this government can be said to have a commitment to education, according to the economy means to see where it goes together. This budget looks like what you know as that saying "Flow flowers in our company" although we are little in tight skin. But that's what it looks like. You've given everyone a little, probably enough, and you can't see the point. And that's what even in those parts of your program, here I also listed it yesterday in which you highlighted some of your political goals for this mandate, and of course the first budget should be a budget that will explicitly confirm the specific goals you set for yourself, even in the part where you made it quite clear in your programme you didn't go to the end of, say, demographic policy. So why increase the entire set of items 90% of the items is linearly increased in this budget. Why didn't you be modest over some items, and then really go towards some higher-level projects, with a policy that would then be reformal, which would talk about where this government wants to take Croatia. I don't see it in this budget, So I would ask you if I didn't see you telling me, that you would show us what is the essence of this budget, where the Government is leading Croatia. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22505	Thank you. Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22506	Here we are meeting with Mrs Turina Đuric, although the president accidentally skipped out on what happened yesterday, but here he is good to you today. I haven't heard of this story about flowers in the company yet. But okay, she's cute. Logic was next. So the logic is that the budget reflects the government's priorities. They're very clear here pointed out. So in the government's programme, we said economic growth, development, new jobs, social justice, solidarity, rule of law. All these elements clearly found their mirroring in these items and this budget. So I emphasized the budget for me is quality because we managed to put an emphasis on what is important to us in the first year, the first real year of the term of office, and that is next. Secondly, we showed a high degree of social solidarity which was also important. This is also evident to employees of state and public services. And as the minister said earlier and according to all the measures of demographic policy and towards the pensioners. I think the measures are one quality combination of goals, those four goals that I presented here a little less than two months ago. Where's this government going? This government is pursuing the political stability that I think we have which is clear and what is needed and what is good that citizens expect, and the second is that all of our goals and obligations that we have are in line with our environment and the trends that exist at EU level. This kind of deficit plan for next year leads us towards the end of the excessive budget deficit procedure, which will be an important signal for credit agencies, for increasing ratings, for lower interest. In such a context, of course, the real sector of the economy, entrepreneurs, craftsmen will have a number of benefits. For example, comb the budget of the Ministry of Economy, and you will see investment in the business climate and in a number of other activities that follow. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22507	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Representative Furio Radin, Committee on National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered the proposal as an interested working body. In the discussion, the Committee discussed those parts of the amendments and additions concerning the state budget, concerning human rights and the rights of national minorities, as set out in its section of the Regulation. The committee members specifically pointed out that the funds intended to achieve the programmes and activities of members of national minorities were not reduced by the proposed budget but were in certain positions and there was a certain increase. This applies most to the position of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities for Programmes, for national minorities growing from 11 million to 23 million kuna. There has also been a slight growth of funds at the position of the National Minorities Council. However, as has been said for several years for the National Minority Council's funding, the funds have been continuously reduced, and only over the past three years have been reduced to 21%, leading to a significantly difficult funding of the National Minority Associations programme, but also the functioning of the Council itself due to a large number of requests received for the implementation of over 1200 Committee programmes, a pardon of the National Minority Council. In the case of funds for projects and programmes intended for members of the Roma national minority, an explanation for the reduction of funds has been requested. at the position of the Croatian Employment Assembly for the implementation of the Action Plan [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Please a little silence please.]] for Roma inclusion which have recently been reduced. [[Invader Jandroković: Excuse my colleague Radin.]] It also drew attention to keeping the same amount at the position of the Ministry of Culture to support the publishing house, Edith, of one million kuna, which decreased significantly by 50% through the previous budget. Such a reduction was said to have resulted in a 25% reduction in employees' salaries in Edith, 8 workers' departure, and a reduction in the number of pages of the single national minority daily that is printed in general in a foreign language. The Minister suggested that these funds be kept at the level from before 2015 it was the usual level, i.e. to amount to a million and 300 thousand kuna on this item, and that only in the transitional period would the difference of 300 thousand kuna be financed from the tender for publishing activity. Other options are mentioned, and we will probably find out today what the Minister of Culture has decided, but it remains the amount of millions and 300 thousand kuna that repairs the situation of this publishing house. It has been pointed out that the positions of the Ministry of Culture also finance a number of other activities of national minorities which are not explicitly mentioned, which have not been reduced in the proposed budget, and above all about the library activity and the protection of cultural heritage for which significant funds have been provided. Finally, it draws attention to the inability to monitor the budget for children. This is about, of course, human rights, and not just minority rights that there are still no separate data on how much funds are allocated to the exercise of children's rights. It was pointed out that the Committee for the Rights of the Child of the UN gave a recommendation to the Republic of Croatia on the allocation of funds for children or on the need to create a child budget similar to another budget which is also not implemented and that Gender Budgeting means women's rights to know how much funds are allocated to children or women at national and local level. That's what we should start with, Mr. Prime Minister, for us, Mr. Finance, we're going to have to start thinking about because these are the things that countries where human rights went a little further than ours, these are the things that are concerned about. Since there is also a monitoring of the implementation of bilateral agreements relating to improving the position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, as well as of Croatian minorities in European countries, the need for their more consistent and uniform implementation has been stressed. Now, look, in this sense, individual items are mentioned at the position of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia whose funds are increasing by 22%. However, as it is noted, the scholarships of students and students of members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia are reduced by 80%, and the amount in this budget is only 40 thousand kuna, as the scholarships will be given, we will see, we will see, the required justification of this reduction given the individual items in relation to the position of the Ministry of Science and Education. And at the end of all these discussions, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities unanimously supported this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22509	Thank you, dear colleague Radin, for this thorough report on the committee's work. And now we're moving on to debates at the MPs' clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and distinguished counterpart Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22510	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected remaining ministers in the government hall. Well, first of all, I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister or President of the Parliament now in the Chamber to listen to what the representatives of the people in this Croatian Parliament for whom we fought in the Homeland War have said. This only shows the concern they have for the second and different opinions, but primarily the concerns they have for our country, for Croatia. Today when we remember the first Croatian president, Franje Tuđman, who was a Croatian antifascist in World War II, but also a Croatian antifascist in the Homeland War, in the Homeland War that united Croatia and which allowed Croatia the freedom we paid for with blood, today Croatia still breathes hard after 25 years. Croatia does not breathe nearly full of lungs to make it possible. Slavonia, hard to breathe, injured Croatian landscapes, is hard to breathe in Croatia today. A Slavonia that could feed Croatia barely feed itself. And then, in fact, the first illogicality in the proposal for this state budget for next year is to deepen these inequalities between Croatia's more developed and undeveloped regions. By eliminating the support of the second category of entrepreneurs in the underdeveloped areas and eliminating the difference which was as an incentive to reduce inequality, and there was all the pay gap between developed and developed areas. And that's actually the truth about this budget, which deepens inequality, and on the other hand it represents something that is not visible for Croatia for now in which direction it will go. Just ten months ago in this same hall, when the former government of the same composition was a budget for this year we heard about cuts, we heard about fiscal consolidation, about saving, about privatisation, about the dangers that threaten us with high public debt and the necessity of tightening the belt. At the time, the former prime minister claimed he had a vision, that he had a direction and a pace for Croatia, but unfortunately from that offered direction and the reforms and changes offered, only changes remained at the head of HRT, secret services and police. Today, nine months later, the same government in the same country in the same year offers a budget that is completely different, as if its author was the White Rabbit from the story of Alice in the land of wonders. The cost of race by 6.8 billion, revenues are planned with economic growth 3.2%, the wider one would dare say, contagious optimism. Just so that optimism doesn't end up being executed, that it doesn't end up in a devastating reality. The SDP government has left an orderly state, a cut-off deficit and economic growth. Although it was here that economic growth or deficit would be less than ever, it could be greater than ever if the predictions were not good. And that's the truth about this and this budget. The only reform that has been presented in the last few months is tax reform. So the only reform is the one where you talk about how to take it, not how to create it. Instead of talking about how to create a new value, how to create jobs, how to boost investment, how to help people have bigger salaries, especially for those who work for the minimumer, which we suggested yesterday, which you unfortunately refused, we suggested that we limit our salaries to politicians and increase our salaries to workers. I'm afraid that proposal didn't go through here either. Only this reform is in nine months this year, in nine months I would dare say the powerlessness that ruled over the last period led to a debt in health, a new debt that weighs $1.1 billion. By the end of the year, the new debt will be 1.5 billion kuna, while total unpaid debt will be up to four billion kuna. The SDP's government reduced debt and payment deadlines. We've reduced them to 280 days, and now they're back to 450 days. So much for that. The deficit is falling because it is left on good growth grounds, it is left on the good foundations of the lower deficit left by the government, but there are no talks on the future of Croatia, there are no talks on the first moves of the government, there are no talks on the vision of Croatia, there are no discussions on how to create a new value and to create new jobs, and that is why these days I have sent an open letter and to the President of the Croatian Parliament, but I will also call on the President of the Croatian Government to discuss together the interests of our country, to see what are the key challenges facing Croatia and what can be done because of this budget, not only not only is it obvious, but this budget with tax reform as the only component of this budget is going to be hit again by those weakest, by the young people, by the culture, by scientists, by the teachers, by the guests, by the next year'll be harder to live in Croatia than this year. This reform will also lose units of local self-government and 2 billion kuna. There are no criteria under which compensation measures will be paid if they are not paid, if there is no rebalancing, to units of local self-government at the level of the planned 1.3 billion kuna. Therefore, these are all the problems that burden this budget, but what worries me most is that in this budget they suffer precisely because of tax relief and tax cuts, i.e. the elimination of the early purchase of young people's property, which is invited with interest subsidies on housing loans for less than 45 years. She'll subsidize a housing loan, for example. In 30 years, 8 years, and this may turn overnight those credit incompetent Croatian citizens over our young Croatian families into credit-worthy people who can fall into the trap of banks and the trap of debt slavery. Therefore, the message is for young families to impose taxes and bait on debt slavery. It's something that we read from this budget and that we can't even make peace with. What can be read is that you also say in the proposal that polling unemployment will be less due to the overall drop in labour. That's right. Why? Because in Croatia, there will be no one to work. Today, the problem we have with employment or unemployment will be a problem tomorrow because in Croatia there will be no one to work. Take a look at the forests of Gorski Kotar, in Slavonia. For relatively, I won't say for a salary that's much higher than a minimum wage, there's no one to work. And that's the basic problem of our country today. Therefore, unless a solution is found here, and I see it in this budget or read it, in Croatia in a few years there will simply be no people who will be able to work and create value. We in this country must create conditions in which people will earn, in which they will be able to work, in which they will have the right to work, and in which they will also have lower interest with their salaries on banking lines and in which they will be able to feed their family with dignity. And fundamental human rights, today when it's Human Rights Day, is exactly the right to work. The right to work especially for those 50,000 people who live in Croatia from the minimum wage, who have not been allowed to adopt the law by emergency procedure, the Minimum Salary Act, that since 1 January they have 286 kunas more for their children, for food, for directors, and thus provide them with at least a little hope for this Christmas that follows. Therefore, we did not allow them to do so in this proposal. We didn't limit it, you didn't accept that a limit is paid to politicians and on the other hand they raise their salaries to workers. But on the other hand, for most of our citizens, our people who work for a salary that is 7,700 kuna gross or smaller, that's about 60 percent of the people, the only thing they're going to get in next year is the spilling of the VAT effect, the bigger tax collected in the open economy, you know very well, Mr. Maric, by the open economy theory, will only get more prices. Unfortunately, therefore, we did not allow these people to live a better life in the following year. Croatia does not reduce social inequalities, but unfortunately increases them in this way. You also base the country's development on money from European funds that were optimistically presented at the beginning of the year with an article and amount of 9.7 billion kuna, and then the rebalancing coldly established that this amount will be paid out of European funds by 8.4 billion kuna. My question is, in fact, what are you based on, I will dare say contagious, contagious, I hope not devastating optimism, that we will withdraw 11.2 billion kuna from the EU funds next year. The government has decided to be wasteful, but also continue to ignore an agreement signed with public service unions. You are in debt, gentlemen, 1.8 billion kuna next year, and you offer 702 million, but there is not a word of that amount, and there is nowhere in the item about the estimated wage growth, and that means for those who are the most affected in Croatia, which is teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, our public sector. Therefore, again from this budget not only do we not see but we also suspect that he will beat himself over the back of those who are the weakest and these are teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, those on whom Croatian society and the Croatian system rests. The tourism sector that's fighting for competitiveness is being abolished and you've taken a billion kunas. Count on season workers next summer to have less money. Why? Because part of the tourism companies in Croatia must invest in investments. Therefore, our most competitive, our most developed tourism sector is this way that you dot a billion kuna and that's something that's not good. We cannot stimulate growth unless we encourage those who are the best in Croatia, which is definitely our tourism, we cannot enable them with rules or assumptions taken. You increase pensions, yes, the average pension will be... For 16 kuna, for the price of barrels and yogurt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's that sad pension increase. With no idea what price indexation is going to be, which is likely to be much higher next year. The next year, therefore, is the year of refinancing of a large Croatian debt amounting to more than 33 billion kuna to be financed by a new debt, meaning 33 billion kunas should be financed by a new debt and therefore the impression of well-being is something that will not help us get lower interest. Lower interest will be given only cold heads and only realistically unflattering and not walking on the edge, without creating an illusion of a situation that is not in Croatia, not talking about reforms and not offering tax reform as a smoke screen in the delay and solving the real problems of Croatian society. And that is why we are ready to discuss Croatia's future in the interests of our country but we are not ready to manipulate and show false content. Same government, same age and a completely different budget. From this budget, it's like we're not living in the same year and we're not in the same country. Therefore, the budget may be pre-electionally high before the local elections, but unless you replace this infectious optimism with reality next year, we could experience a devastating realism and a devastating rebalance of the state budget that I don't even want to talk about here. And what I'm about to say and conclude for the end of the day, Prime Minister Plenkovic said one great truth today. The budget is complex, so that it meets the political goals, and in that it is all his sin. It should be complex to meet the key, development objectives of the state rather than the political objectives of the government for the sake of government's own sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22511	Thank you, too. We have 16 replicas, we start with 1 and that's distinguished colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22512	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bernardic, you said it's hard to breathe. If it's hard to breathe, we know what we have to take from the bronchi, this budget is bronchi to breathe, but we're still in the first year, we're still in the first year of government which and those supported by HDZ and MOST and we're proposing a second budget. Listen to the history of the 2011 budget and the expenditure pages that you have proposed and proposed in the last 2 years. 2011 120 billion, 2012. 119 billion, 2013. 125 billion, 2014 130 billion expenditures, 2015 This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 122. Deficit 2013 16 billion, 2014. 16 billion, 2015. 12 billion, 2016. 7.5, we'll see what happens. So you supported as an ex-constituent of the 2014 budget with an expenditure side of 130 billion, a deficit of 16 billion with which we entered the excessive deficit procedure and you brought us into it so solemnly and you said it was excellent, developmental and social. We won't talk about public debt he's very visible on this graph to look at, this is the period when he raises his hands to SDP, going high. This second part when the HDZ government is going down. So that's the difference. And now I don't get it. Why as a former parliamentary representative and now the president of the SDP then raised his hand for such a 130 billion budget and with a deficit of 16 and now for a budget that plans less expenditure, which plans a 3 times smaller deficit, you are against it. Is it some kind of credibility policy, or is it just hypocrisy and incompatibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22513	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22514	Well, first of all, you know very well that the SDP government has left Croatia in growth and in a smaller deficit. And that's a fact, you know that too. I agree with you that we need more bronchials. We need more Croatian candy, ice cubes, bayaders, all the good Croatian products produced by our companies, Croatian chocolates, but what we definitely need for our islanders, we need a bronchie to make life easier for them. There is no relief in this budget for Croatian islands. Not for the Rab you're from, not for the Lopar you're from. We haven't provided any means for these people, not for Rab or Lopar, I'm sorry about that. It will be our amendment to help these people out of your midst to live better and better quality and not to neglect Croatian islands. Here, support our amendment to Rab and Lopar and I will be pleased and happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22515	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Bernardic, you mentioned twice that it was the same government, I guess in the pre-election fever you forgot it was another government now, it's complicated by the same parties but the other government. But you're a little misrepresented, the SDP government, I'm not going to tell your government because it wasn't your government, it was certainly creating debts in health and it wasn't reducing the funds that remained due, although hospitals were paying late for up to 1,000 days, 900 days. However, what surprised me most, do not listen to what fellow Mrsic whispers to you. What surprised me most of you, in fact, as a modernly very promising scientist, is that you have not praised, it is clear to me that as an opposition chief, the opposition chief must attack the probably budget, that you did not praise the fact that significantly more money is being allocated to the Ministry of Science and Education. And despite being spoken here, it's 11.1% more incorrect than it was in 2015. When EU projects are taken from that sum and the institution's own resources that has been mystified, 9.39 billion and 11% more for science than it was. I'm also surprised that no one pointed out that those myths that were created and people mobilized on false stories that, where the government stopped making a teaching manual or curricula, were incorrect because they gave 6.5 million even for that very purpose in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22517	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22518	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I call on us to agree on the facts in Croatia. The fact is that the SDP's past government has increased the separation by science from 0.75%, which is miserable to 0.81%), which is equally small. I want you to be successful. Well, it's in our country's best interests to be successful and to make that separation bigger. But from what we've seen so far, we can't see it's gonna be bigger. We don't see that direction. What we see in the same way is that health debts are growing. Well, the health debt didn't go away because a government came along and erased it with a magic rubber. Debts remained but began to decrease. In the last year, they've started to grow, and that's what we're worried about. So let us because our pensioners stand five hours in a row, waiting for 3 months to review, people who have nothing from Croatia except their bare pensions of 1800 kuna. Well, I'm worried, so let me worry about these people. What aren't we supposed to say? Well, not that we're going to say it, but we're going to warn you about it. So we aim at a better and more equal society where people can consume a quality of health care. And that means we have to start reducing debts and reducing waiting lists. Well, no one removed all the health problems with a magic wand, but they started getting rid of each other. And today our goal is to get rid of them. Did the same government or other government in the same configuration as our people say the same, the same product second packaging.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22519	Dear colleague Branko Bačić, third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bernardic, you have not answered the fundamental question of how is it that around you there are 10 ministers or 11 ministers from the former government of Zoran Milanovic who in this same House, in much more difficult economic conditions, have proposed the expenditures of the state budget on 130 billion kunas from 16 billion deficits? And now... Slowly fellow Maras slowly, and now you do not want to accept less expenditure from the state budget with 2.5 billion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know it very well, and you know it, and those same ministers sitting around you, 2.5 billion kuna... colleague Maras. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22521	I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I beg you, therefore, that we do not enter into each other's word. Let's just say, there's a lot of controversial tones on both sides, but let's not get into each other's words.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22522	My colleague Maras and I can do it any time you want. So in much better economic and macroeconomic indicators you won't accept 2.5 billion kunas of real deficit, you know very well, and if you were to look at GDP growth of 3.2% then it would be entirely justified because experts and mathematics say that tax revenues would grow over 5 billion with 3.2. Tax revenues would grow to allow so much expenditure growth. And this government is going with a double lower expenditure growth than tax revenues are expected to grow on the basis of growth of 5.2, 3.2% of GDP. That's very important. And another thing, when you replicated your colleagues, Boris, a colleague of Bernardic, when you replicated your colleagues, Boric said that there was no increase in subsidies for Croatia... you are wrong. Namely, you can look at the report of the Committee on Regional Self-Government and you will see that it grows by... water supply of the island 12%, an incentive from the livestock economy by 6%, a Croatian island product by 23%, a transport connection of Croatian islands, therefore subsidising ships by 7%. So this government thought very much about Croatian islands both Rab and my Korčula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22523	Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Bacic. I'm begging you let's try to hold on for two minutes, there's really a lot of debate so we'll be in 2 minutes. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22524	First of all, it's not true that the expenditure was 130 billion. That's not true, but it's true that maybe first year's government colleagues should have cut it more than likely we can agree on. But today they have a lot more experience. And you can learn from that experience. And don't learn another time in a year. So we want to help you learn. Learn from our initial snotty. For a people who do not learn from their own mistakes repeat their own tragedies. And that's our contribution to making you more successful. So learn something from it. I wasn't, I wasn't lucky to be a member of last government, but what I can definitely say is that we will also propose to our amendments to improve the status of Croatian islands because our islands are important to us. And Korčula is important to us, and Rab is important to us. But when it comes to reducing inequality, then the fact needs to be said. It should be said that the second category of entrepreneurs in undeveloped areas has lost support. Cancelled. It should be said that those differences were lifted, the encouraging differences between developed and undeveloped areas that would attract and attract people especially doctors, professors to go to these undeveloped areas. Well, that's my people's cut off. So we have to worry about whether we want all Croatian landscapes to be more developed or just want to be more large centres. So we must finally begin to reduce the inequalities between people in Croatia, between people living from their work for small wages and higher wages. But between the Croatian parts, between the Gorski Kotar, the Dalmatian hinterland and, for example, the Zagreb areas or some more developed areas. So we have to start doing that. I'm warning you of that part. Well, I won't tell you what's good, because you know how politics is. It's because when you make it, when you make it, everyone deserves it, and when you fail, it's only you who's responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22525	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished colleague Branko Hrg. My colleague, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22526	Excuse me. Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bernardic answered the line when you said that the SDP government had left an orderly state, and I will say that the SDP government had left the state in my opinion. And it's a good thing the election came, so she couldn't take it any further. But it doesn't go on your back, it doesn't go on your burden. I've always seen you as a man in the SDP, then a ruling group who thinks differently and who actually disagrees with most of what the government did back then. But today, as already said here, you are sitting in the environment of people who have been taking care of Croatia for four years and taking care of it in many segments. You also mentioned the Croatian forests and said that in the Croatian forests today no one will work because even the salaries are good, no one will work. So in some ways, I came to the conclusion that you and your government had then planned to fire over 1,000 people in the Croatian forests, because in fact people did not want to work. That's why I didn't know the reason why it was being fired. I thought he was firing himself because of the positive results of the state-owned company of the Croatian Forests, and in fact these people didn't want to work, and then your government fired those people nicely and showed the profits of the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22527	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22528	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hrg, dear Branko, and what I said, so the government has left a more orderly, non-organised state. How can I tell you? A more orderly state than it was. If we finish, if Croatia is a completely neat state so what is our business? What we have to do. Therefore, we fight every day to make it better, and that is what the Croatian government has done. And that's why it's good to listen, it's good to see who has something to say because only that man who thinks he's the smartest is often on his way to staying very smart. And as Kennedy said when he was asked he heard your advisor with you and about you he also had a different opinion about the key problems of the country than you. So how do you explain it? Well, he said when we're gonna have the same opinion I won't need him anymore. We must accept that we are an open society where we have different opinions and different views. Well, yes, and different views were probably in the Croatian forests, because it is not the same to work in a sawmill on rare working conditions ranging from temperatures of -5 in Gorski kotar to + 37 in Spačva. It's not the same. And it's not the same to work in an office, in an air-conditioned office. Perhaps one part of the people in the air-conditioned offices was the one who was burdening the budgets. But let's leave it with the analysis, time will tell. I'm sorry that the changes that followed in the state-owned enterprises are the last. I wish it were different, but it didn't, it came without a public competition, without the public competition of my people. Transitional administrations in six months. Why? I mean, why are you doing this? It's not good for you. I'm trying to help you be color.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22529	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22530	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bernardic, first of all, I would like to commend your initiative and the desire for the dialogue you presented in these letters and I think it is good that there is one quality and good dialogue on the political scene. But in order for this dialogue to be good, we must actually have and participate in it with the right and the real facts. What I really want to bring into question is about this part of you where you said that the SDP government has been dealing with order since 2011 and 15th, and it's been a big mess. It's in the spirit of actually all the time what your predecessor was saying, which is simply incorrect. In 2011, when we taught the de facto state to manage the SDP, we left a country you knew would be a full member of the EU on 1 July 2013. In order to come to this, we had to carry out major reforms and we had to take great steps to become a member of the EU. So, you are, this government has had a full year and a half to prepare and withdraw during this remaining period of funds from the EU. You know, and the figures best show that we haven't made any progress. In those four years, the introduction of the order raised public debt to almost, almost 90% of GDP stakes, slightly less. And now that you see in this budget and in this period before the public debt is reduced, the public debt is reduced, we have increased the withdrawal of funds from the EU, from the European funds. It is very good to see that the revenues of the state budget are also higher precisely because of the better withdrawal of funds. Not to say how many emigrations have been in these four years but part of it is history, part of it is history, and part of it is let some historians talk about it. But I think these are good premiums and this budget and tax reform to make Croatia better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22531	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22532	Well, first of all, we have to agree on the problem, but in order to agree on the problem first, we have to agree on the facts. The fact is, not everything was perfect, but the fact is that GDP has grown, that industrial production has grown in the last 4 years, that exports have grown, that we have been among the three European countries with the highest export growth rate, that 84 thousand 655 young people have been employed, that we have had the lowest unemployment rate in the last 6 years, that the reduced health debt and that, after indexing pensions, pensions have increased 5% in the last 4 years. That's the facts. Let's agree on the facts and keep talking about the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22533	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's no correction to the incorrect assumption, you said you weren't lucky to be in the past SDP government, you were lucky you weren't in that government, so now you're the SDP president because if you weren't president of the SDP. But you mentioned health care and said you were ready to talk about the future. And that's good, probably in your roots talking about that character gene and it's good that you're ready to talk about the future. But when did health care get into the biggest troubles? At a time when the contribution to the health system is reduced from 15% to 13%. That was the problem where and here is Minister of the former Varga who, even in his term, managed to fix all the mistakes that came out of it. At one point, health care owed 7.5 billion kuna thanks to this reduction and contributions from 15% to 13% and did not compensate for the loss of 2.5 billion dollars to health care. Of course, there was also a rehabilitation of health institutions and remember, and I'm only going to say an example of one hospital in which the situation came about the Health Institution Restitution Act, the Vukovar Hospital that had to, now listen to this and this is a confidential data, which she had to borrow every month to pay off, not to pay the suppliers, but to pay the employees' salaries. So I also call as former minister for a broad consensus on the health system. So remember also the additional health insurance where we raised the health insurance policy to 130 for those who had paid more than 10 thousand kuna, and those who had less than 5 thousand kuna down to 60, that was one social sensitivity, and then you evened the insurance policy to 70 kuna, so those over 10 thousand kuna you took from 130 to 70 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22535	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22536	... Lucky or not, they say happiness follows brave and old Japanese says success overnight comes after 20 years of work. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, it is waiting for us in Croatia. Who thinks he can easily fool himself? And that's why I'm worried because in the last year, in the last nine months, it's exactly the debt in health care that should allow the health system so that our pensioners don't wait in so many rows, that their service is more accessible and more quality. The debt in the health care sector has grown 1.1 billion kuna. That's what worries me. It would probably be different, but now it's not, now it's honest, if you were a minister, it would probably be different. You are aware of the problem we faced when Croatia reduced the rate of health contributions. It was one of the more excruciating of the work at the time. Whether the decision was correct or guilty afterwards followed by a series of good decisions in health care, rehabilitation of hospitals, reduction of waiting lists, medically assisted fertilisation that allowed Croatian couples, Croatian families to have children today even though they are infertile. That was all good decisions. But today, when we talk about problems, then we're talking from the point of view that in the last nine months, that debt has grown over a billion kuna. And that's something we're worried about. I'm not worried about numbers, I'm not worried about you, about me, about my colleague Jandrokovic or my colleague, Marić, who's doing this pedantic work, but I'm worried about people who are sick and who are looking for a better and more accessible health service.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22537	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable colleague Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22538	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bernardić, you spoke in your debate about less developed areas in the Republic of Croatia. I believe I come from such a county. And I actually volunteered for the replica of the moment you mentioned the last government of Mr. Milanovic who helped as such. So here I'm just going to give you a few facts because I want to believe that you're really talking about it and that you want to help these parts, but obviously you're not well-versed in what's happened. So the first thing that the government did was just stop the construction of the road towards Bjelovarsko-Biogorje County, a road that was supposed to connect our county and the town of Bjelovar with the whole of Croatia and the city of Zagreb and give perspective and economics in those areas to develop better, i.e. new investments are coming. On that track you are currently failing facilities that have invested about 300 million kunas and for four years there has been virtually nothing. What did the Croatian forests do to our premises, for example? They destroyed little wood processors in our county. Towkers just at the time of that tree government were leaving our county and the investments that had already been made, plants that were even well equipped and very modern were standing completely empty. The people who worked there were fired because they couldn't get to the wood mass and that wood mass right in those areas and processed it. Now that's changing a little bit. You were talking about young people, so here, I'll tell you, I come from a small town, only in 2014 about 200 families of young people moved out of that town. So that's the result that happened exactly those years when she was Mr. Milanovic's government, so here's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22539	I thank my esteemed colleague Totgergeli. Replication response, dear colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22540	Well, look, you gave yourself an answer to the question. People have moved out of your little town. You know what? In your county, in this small town of SDP, he has never gained confidence in the management of Croatia and your environment, and that may be the problem. Because where we've been, I won't say it doesn't exist, but it's much smaller. Yeah? Therefore, the situation in your county and in your town will certainly change when the social democracy finally gets the trust to manage and that's something we're going to work on. But what I'm really saying is that you can't argue in this budget that the support for undeveloped areas for 2nd category entrepreneurs has been removed. That's a fact. You can't argue that decisions on pay gaps that would stimulate people to come into undeveloped areas have been annulled. And in this budget there's no one in this budget that you've abolished in the last budget just nine months ago the same one here, which is for your county to build 11 sports halls for children according to the model of public private partnership. Why don't you let the kids play? Why aren't we developing sports? Why don't we create this Croatian quality through sport? Well, put that back. That would be a good amendment, and I suggest you return it. You will be a successful representative and will be loved in your midst.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22541	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply to the replica. My colleagues, I would ask you nicely while my colleague responds to refrain from any comments. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22542	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bernardić, I volunteered for the replica because you were obviously misrepresented by someone, I don't know why you mentioned non-employment in forests in undeveloped areas. This is true, there is no employment in forests in any area of the Republic of Croatia because there is a ban on employment in the public enterprise of the Croatian forest or commercial company in 100% state-owned, and this ban is strictly implemented by the administration set up by the SDP. And not only is a thousand 500 people a reduced number of employees, you said they might be the ones sitting in the offices, it's only partly true and a much smaller number. Most of them are production workers, meaning carjackers, tractorists and all those who contribute, who have contributed to their work, better business of Croatian forests, and have also performed that social function of the development of these small environments where most forests operate. So this is the consequence of, above all, the inaction of the present administration, which is probably how it wanted the result to be as good as possible, and we all know well that, on the basis of such contracts, they have the right to the greatest possible bonuses. Believe me, there are still enough young people in those small communities who would be happy to work in that forest, earn their bread as their fathers and grandfathers did, especially in those rural areas. And I expect that the future management of the Croatian Forests was named by the competition, as you have appointed it by setting it by direct political means, as soon as possible to ensure that forests function and carry out their roles in all parts of Croatia, and above all in rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22543	I thank my esteemed colleague, Felak for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22544	Well, you answered, in fact, you gave my answer. Well, I wouldn't mention it if there wasn't a job if he had one. So because he's gone, that's exactly why I mentioned him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22545	I thank you for your response to the distinguished colleague Bernardic. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22546	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear colleague Bernardic, I don't know if it's my last replica, but I might as well recapture it. It is clear to me that your debate is, of course, more political and, of course, justified. But unlike your debate, which has, of course, political objectives, this budget has very much a development goal. And you mentioned, you compared, you actually tried to compare the former and current government. I would never pull a parallel with the former and current government. And a few facts are when we all like to talk about facts, but unfortunately we don't have time, but the biggest fact is choices. If she needed a card, we all agree, and the cards happen both in large and small political parties, and we see it, and in your party, it happened, and you're obviously the result. And these are, of course, normal democratic processes. But let's go less into political discourse, and more about concrete facts. So, just some of the facts of this budget, so what is very important is that this budget actually ensures the strongest control of budget spending so far. Did we all need that? We really needed it. Water, forests, roads, great adjustments, and we see that it is absolutely necessary. Through this budget, which I would call the most scenic so far, the most scrupulous, but also the most developed, three things have been achieved. One very important thing is three pillars to reduce public debt. This is GDP growth, this is the activation of state assets and that is this fiscal consolidation and all three come in the package in this budget. You have apostrophe among other general expenditures as large, but this is not true because I must reiterate that given the economic aspects, you have already heard from Minister Maric's statement that these expenditures are not the same, they are all down to 2.5 billion. So let's just stick to the fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22547	I thank my colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22548	Here are respected MPs, so here you are a young representative in this House by internship, but you have a rich political experience because you can really speak with full right of what a position looks like when you look at them from MOSTs or possibly now from HDZ, therefore certainly from other positions you can compare and compare different aspects of the budget. You said that the last line not only to God is the last one, so what I'm trying to point out is when you were in your section talking about the best and most developed budget. Well, it's not the most developed budget that has the slightest deficit, is it? It has nothing to do with each other. The most developed budget that allows for the creation of new added value, which allows for job creation, which allows assumptions for growth next year, is the most developed budget. And that's what we don't see in this budget. There's no talking about creating added value, no talking about assumptions for growth, and there's no talking about what my people's 2018 budget will look like. Well, we're through this budget now, which, in our personal opinion, is too high. We're on a ski slope, that's what I'm trying to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22549	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22550	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bernardic, you mentioned, I'll return to this budget when you say you can't see where all these revenues will come from. If you have also read the reasoning in the budget concept, then it is evident that household consumption is the most important generator for GDP growth and that this is foreseen at 3.6 index points. So if we go back to the fact that the total non-taxable part is increased significantly means that domestic demand and the domestic man is very much creating preconditions for the total GDP growth of 2.1%. As a result, 3,800 kunas of the non-taxable has a significant impact on total consumption, it is very much increasing GDP growth, and should not, in this way, be skeptical about all these measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22551	I thank my colleague Grodani Peric for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22552	Thank you very much, Mrs. Peric. Well, I read that, but I don't believe it. Yes, domestic consumption will be a growth generator for domestic demand, i.e. GDP. And 60% of our people don't have any growth, they work for 7,700 kuna gross and less, no effect. Well, that's college, that's oxymoron, is it? I'm trying to run an economic debate. You understand, it means 60% of people are nothing, and all of a sudden these people are going to make it grow. Well, how can I tell you, that's Alice in wonderland, that White Rabbit escaped into the woods.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22553	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague Bernardic, you are this budget and the future of Croatia because if all this is accomplished together, you have called it a wonderland. But I'll just say and mention what you know, that by yesterday the deficit was 17 billion, that for the first time today compared to the 2015 projection on 2016 budget for the first time the public debt was reduced, the public deficit decreased, GDP growth, but you have indeed contributed in the previous government to the reduction of the deficit really not being as it was a few years ago. Of course, you also talked about the interest that citizens will not be able to borrow because interest is large, and you can see by achieving these economic solutions and by achieving such indicators as public debt and deficits, it is precisely showing that tomorrow and citizens, as well as legal persons, but as well as the state can certainly be in debt for far less interest than it was in the previous time period. Even these 33 billion kunas that the state must borrow to refinance the old commitments will certainly show that at the moment it shows such economic progress will certainly be able to borrow far cheaper, and we have already shown this in the past year where Minister Maric saved only the difference in interest rates of more than 250 million kuna. Certainly you as a young man, and I congratulate you on being president of the SDP today and your broad smile, together with this budget projection in 2017 with us all here together today who are in position and you who are in opposition to the common forces build a better future in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22555	I thank my esteemed colleague Franji Lucic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22556	Well thank you, Mr. Lucic, we always knew how to find a common language, but what we agree on is that you and I would like Croatia to be a land of wonders and that miracles happen to us. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And I wish I could really share your optimism for the next year. But it was not written by the Financial Times either, neither in the European Commission nor in the European Council on the most prominent and optimistic projections, and it is simply not seen. You can't even see it from this budget. I'm glad you believe. I am somewhat younger than you, unfortunately I do not share that optimism with you because I am aware of the restrictions Croatia is facing. I am aware that the same government in the redesigned system in this same year, in this same country twice in a short time period was a completely different budget and let me be careful. And I always support those who believe, for blessed are those who believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22557	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22558	Your Honor, Vice President. It's really amazing, Mr. Bernardich, that you won this election. I'm particularly happy about that for a number of reasons, but I'm not going to make them, you know. It's also amazing that your party, especially your representatives in the local administration and in the leading places, you said that everything there is advanced, everything is positive. Here I said, I'll only remember Babi's beam. There has never been defeated by any other party besides the SDP, probably those promises your government made there from its budget, the separation for their school and their pool, i.e. Hall. Now there's a pool where they are, I don't know if they have to be careful if someone doesn't drown there because they're currently feces, waste water in that pool. Then I'm gonna skip the Babina Greda, not stay too long, I'm going to the Ministry of Agriculture. We had Minister Jakovina who wasn't here, who shared the incentives of purpose that were supposed to go to small family farms, he shared it with his friends probably by some key. If that's justice, then let's remember forestry in the same vault. Every day, and every time we go to Zagreb, we see peddlers full of oak logs coming from Slavonian forest. However, these logs never come or a small part comes to sawmills in Slavonia especially when we start from Gunja and beyond. Slavonia, Slavons living surrounded by these forests cannot enjoy their graces, at least that they can get wood at some normal price but pay one metre to 330 kuna. It's very awkward especially for us out there. So we can't use our natural resources while others can use them and we can't come to theirs at all. Furthermore, when I think of some of your ministers who used their resources and their influence, there goes the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22559	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Cule for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22560	Thank you for your congratulations, colleague Culey. As far as I'm concerned, I know there's a big investment coming up in Babin Greed over the next few months. There are already two mandates if I am not mistaken, two or three mandates in the position of SDP's responsibility. It is precisely the investment that will be the result of a good relationship between local authorities and an opening to entrepreneurship, but I am also sorry that the construction of the pool that started this one was stopped, and was stopped by the government of former Prime Minister Oreskovic. So, surely, if you were a minister and in a position to decide that would not have happened. But you didn't, but you have to be aware that the HDZ and MOST government, the last HDZ coalition government, has stopped just building that pool. But we will be so valuable, we are already preparing it, to give an amendment to which these funds that are irrevocably taken from children and young people, all people who want to be recruited from the wider area of Babina Greda, the hall, will return to the budget. Therefore, support our amendment, you will be fine, you will be proud and you will be able to feel like a hero in your own midst, come back and provide something good for those children and those people. Here, support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22561	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22562	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bernardić, I have been following your work since I came to Parliament in 2009. You said today at the end of your debate that this budget is the same product and that the Croatian government is a new package. And today I saw you as a new product and a new package of SDPs because you were with us at the cemetery, you laid a crown on behalf of the Croatian Parliament to the late President Franji Tudjman. You started your speech by mentioning the late president today, which I find positive. But as you moved on, you made me feel like a new product and an old package of SDPs because you were defending yourself indefensible. The former Prime Minister Milanovic's 2011 budget here for this speaker said about Slavonia, and you mentioned Slavonia down at the pay phone which I also welcome, he said that he may have dried his right hand if he forgets Slavonia. However, as we are discussing today the most important financial document, I have been following the situation in Slavonia since 2011 and beyond, at the end of your government, unfortunately in 2015 and 2016, that government of Zoran Milanovic lost the election, you became head of the opposition and that is change, that is something new, and it was seen today when you spoke. However, if you come to Osijek and Slavonia and comparing 2011, 2012 and all others, you will see how many young educated people are, and you have also called for science and education, left Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, eastern Croatia, a large number. So today we're talking about some document that I first of all think is real, whether he's enforceable will show time, and also many times I've said that your former Finance Minister, Lalovac, was an expert in his field and I think he and Mr. Maric understand each other best. That's where it's supposed to be fair. However, I have given the importance of your speech because today this is your first speech as head of opposition, and I follow you, and I don't want you to go back to the old SDP because strong SDP means strong executive power that gives you quality and quality. You need to follow it a little bit like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22563	I thank my esteemed colleague Salapic for his replica. Reply to the replica of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22564	Thank you for your conversation. You said a lot of things, what I'm going to say as a correction to an incorrect quote, I didn't say packing at any time, I said packing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22565	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Boris Lalovac, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Davor, I'm thinking here today when we talked about the budget I think we've come back to some transfer who's who, what's done. And what you warned me about, I think it's getting a little under the carpet again. In 2004, we know that one of our economic policies was a strong state consumption, we only spend, we build, we spend and we build, and we came up with this public debt, which is 85% depending on what accounting was then treated, as it is not. But that EUROSTA very well so far specified. And then there's this economic shock that doesn't even have anything to do with Croatia, there's been a financial crisis out there, and we've been in deep recession for six years. It's like we didn't learn anything. A year, a year of recovery and due to EU entry, due to lower interest rates, a more positive economic environment, once again strong expenditure growth. I'm just surprised that all those economics, the Croatian Employers' Association, all those who spoke for 4.5 years when we were in Milanovic's government to cut, cut, cut, save as they speak today and applaud for more consumption, we just spend, spend, forget what happened to our big public spending. So what you just warned about will happen next year, you see in the EU Italian banks are shaking, 360 billion kunas of unpaid loans, two of the largest banks are in Croatia. The elections in France, the elections in Germany, the migrant crisis means all the time we're trying to say that we support good things, but to be a little more realistic because we won't have any more people to take care of. We're at 85% of public debt if anything happens next year. You saw last year that Minister Maric barely pulled a position because there was not so much public debt that he managed to refinance on the domestic market. If it happens to us because of Brexit and because of all these situations in 2017, people will no longer have us to resuscitate only the IMF. And so let's not be over-attack at it, let's spend it, let's spend it, let's spend it. We have shown that such economic policies have led us to a high public debt. We had no room for such strong consumption. It was just a warning from counterpart Bernardic. And we want you to succeed, we just want you to succeed in warning this thing that if anything happens and what the Croatian government can't influence, can't influence, can't affect what's going to happen to us. What's our variant b? Do we even have a variant b?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22567	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22568	Thank you, fellow Lalovac. You fought bravely to protect the most vulnerable Croatian citizens. You have great experience, you can learn from your experience a new government and you should learn from the experiences and mistakes of previous governments. And that is why this debate in which you should be careful, in which you should be realistic, and in which you should learn in the experiences of past governments is something that we want to further warn the new government because our interest in Croatia is first, and that is not to be blinded by healthy eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22569	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22570	Thank you very much. In your discussion, and in your first moves, you requested communication and conversation with partners on the Croatian political scene, both with HDZ and with MOST. I'm all in favour of your insistence. Unfortunately, today's message here at this budget session is not like that because I think we should leave the situation where certain illusions of the public play are being made that the entire government is called together at half 10 a.m., that an hour of people are sitting and after that I am only giving recognition here to colleagues who remain and Minister Dalic and Minister Maric, here is the Minister of Culture, Minister of Youth and Social Affairs, family. So that's the show. Our prime minister went after an hour to a party meeting in Trakoscan, we must say the same here, the Croatian State Testament, the HDZ Foundation, which, if you remember, was funded by the IFO Institute or the Russian money program of the IFO Institute, but if you already want the dialogue, if you have already received here I see the support and by HDZ I practically feel that at this point the signatures are being collected to collect more than Plenkovic. As much as you're praised by the HDZ people, that's good. Let's keep that dialogue, let's do something about it, but then we have to avoid saying plays. For an hour read the speech, go to the turkey with the mills in Trakoscan I don't think that's the way we should work in this Croatian Parliament. You gave your hand to the MOST yesterday about the minimum wage vote, you wanted us to support their law and to support the raise of minimum wages, they refused. So keep going, I hope that we will return this dialogue to this House and that we will decide something here and not that the Prime Minister exclusively uses Parliament as his stage and that he will leave afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22571	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, and I would remind him only here since he constantly criticises me for time over time 16 seconds, and I ask you, as long as there's room for you to be able to fix yourself, don't criticize others. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22572	Vice President of the Parliament, here comes fellow Maras and say that in life a man has two ears and one mouth so he can listen twice as much as speak. And you should listen, because whoever's not ready to listen to criticism trust me in life won't do anything. And I'm sorry there's no Mr. Plenkovic here, a prime minister who didn't find fit to listen to MPs in this House, but there aren't any others. Of course, thank you for always reaching out to those who stayed here, so right now I thank them for just doing their job. But what you've noticed, yesterday we could share the joy of Christmas here with those who live the hardest in Croatia, with them 50,000 who can barely make ends meet, whose families are fighting for an uncertain existence, they don't know if they'll pay for the directorship. They don't know if they'll be able to eat that turkey with the mills, maybe just a piece of the bat, 50 grand in Croatia. They're 50,000 where we wanted to make it from 1.1. The 286 kuna immediately increases the minimum wage for these 50,000 families, and by the next year so much. This has been disabled as well as a restriction on the salaries of government officials. So from this relationship from that movement we say and it hurts us like humans, it hurts us as representatives of the people who are here today despite what Mr. Plenkovic will say, what the ministers will say, what you will say because it is in the interest of people, especially these 50,000 who are hard to live and barely feeding their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22573	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22574	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Bernardic, I congratulate you on your election as president of the SDP. You were talking about optimism and pessimism. Optimism is a positive thing, but of course it's important that it's real. But you mentioned 11 weeks. 33 billion kuna debt, i.e. 11 billion kuna is only interest. Of course, that's what happens when we look at that only in office while you were in power from the Croatian Forests, a thousand people were fired with the fact that only large bonuses had that you know the management of the company as Mr Pavelic seems to me enormous bonuses for good work and good service. Now imagine that money is not given to Mr Pavelic and the administrations, so that there will certainly be funds for these minimum salaries, and certainly for the budget it would be much better. When we look at the program of even development for our Slavonia, the money that was intended for the OPGs in Slavonia went during Jakovina into other pockets, in the pockets of numerous tycoons, in fact few because there are not many. These are the facts that the money ended in Slavonia would certainly not have left 50,000 Slavons in 2015. And the fact is that 5 billion kuna is in office, 5 billion kunas are given for dairy production from 64,000 during Jakovina, 64,000 dairy producers on 4800 dairy producers, and 5 billion kunas are invested in incentives. Now imagine what disproportionate proportions they are. Only 4,000 milk producers during Jakovina remain, Slavonia burned ground. And I really hope that you too will awaken optimism and that you will criticize even more strongly, but that optimism must be based on reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22575	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Replication response, dear colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22576	First of all, we are interested in returning Croatian production and developing Croatian landscapes. I think it's of interest to us, but it's also a common interest. And I was talking about that, about the present moment, about the budget that is now and the future, about what will only be about the fact of the past. But you often like to go back to what was before. Pronunciation, a man who seeks justification, can mostly do nothing, and it's just a simple story, which requires justification, will mostly do nothing. And I'm actually calling you to point out that when you're already talking about what was done during the last government, we have to point out that for the first time, my people failed to refinance their commitments last year. Why? Because the interest for us was too high. I will not say because for the first time in Croatian history MOST entered the government, that for the first time in Croatian history, the state failed to have a favourable interest rate. I'm not gonna say that. If I were mean, I could say it, but I'm not gonna say it. But I'll say don't make excuses in the last government, because the man who's looking for excuses is mostly a failure, he can't do anything. And I'd like you to be successful. You're an active lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22577	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. With this, we have exhausted the replicas of this debate. Next up for debate on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU was contacted by a distinguished colleague of the Croatian Vice-President Mr Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22578	Thank you very much, Vice President, Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Honorable Representatives. At first, I will just say that we are going to define our proposals to amend for not so expensive things, and very important for the units of local self-government in the completion of the plans for the construction of schools, kindergartens, the rehabilitation of the rink and the good part of the education system that we all need to focus on. And it should be said that no budget, so we can't look at a person in black and white. We generally have one custom in Croatia to look at things in black and white. It's all black or it's all white, and it's not like that. This does not characterize any person, let alone one budget. But what we can first see in the projections, and I mentioned that when the government's projections went public. We see in projections the plan by 2016, this year GDP growth is 2.7%. The prime minister praised us for having carried out a major reform at the beginning of the tax mandate, a tax change that should contribute to GDP growth of 0.5% and that next year we will have 3.2% of GDP growth. And then in projections, the exact same growth and eighteen and nineteen years. When a person plans his own projections, that everything he has to do in the first few months and that after that comes the stagnation of growth is not a good message. This is not even a good message to international financial institutions that we all expect in the coming year, with serious access to our help if necessary, your serious deficit control will raise the rating and thus reduce interest not only to the state, but also to the real sector. When we say a message that we're going to stagnate in growth for the next three years, it's certainly not something that can make us happy. I'm going to talk to my colleague Bačić a little bit. With the budgets, take these people's documents. I'll only tell you with clear budget documents in the last five years what it looked like. In 2012, implementation of the budget is 118 billion. In 2015, budget implementation costs 115 billion. So, we have HZO's in with? At 23 billion, he entered the budget in 2015. [[Intruder: with 20 billion.]] But he went from 23 to 115 billion, 130. From 108 to 130. Where's HZO now? We're very simple to deal with. And watch the revenues, 109 2012, 2015 execution 109 Of course it's HZO. [[Intruder: HZZO again.]] Guys, we're not talking about... we're talking about we don't have four billion debts here and there's no debts made in hospitals last year. Where do you see that in your budget? Four billion in one year, that's 16 billion in four years. Are we gonna talk about this? So, I didn't mean to mention it, because it doesn't say here what we're going to do with 4 billion that de facto don't exist in the spending plan this year to resuscitate those 4 billion, as there isn't a resolution, actually the result of the billion-and-a-half-cost negotiations that will come in case what we hear in public is true that next year, 3+3% of the growth is being made in the public sector. So we're moving on to projections. In 2015, for the first time since Croatia's independence, we have exports of goods and services bigger than imports of goods and services. 10% was exports of goods and services, 9.4% of exports of goods and services. Our plan is to slow down export growth, and to speed up import growth which is logical if we raise the tax base and if consumption is growing, and I guess some other measures. I don't have a problem with import growth. I have more problems with slowing down export growth. I guess by some measures, we need to keep our trends at the very least, so that we get a new balance of payments, get a new job, get a new productivity, get a new industrial growth and everything that should come in the next four years. A colleague, Maric, mentioned it in his performance. ... the year is a negative contribution to importing goods and services and that this should be changed, and in projections we have a plan for the next 4 years the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I ask you that and for the projections, for the sake of our plan, we know where we're going. There's one thing I'm still interested in, and that's what all of us should be doing. Your government deficit plan, not consolidated, is 6.8 billion kuna of the state budget I speak, not consolidated. What happens if we come here in a year to do the budget and it's 8.5? I'm asking you honestly now, people, and I want to hear the honest answer. Will the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister then be held accountable or will we re-upply whether some minister made it in 2011, 6 or 16? I'd like to start working so that each of us has some responsibility for the work that he's doing. And if we're being shown 6.8 here today, and it's clear that 7.2 you don't know, a couple hundred million kunas is impossible. But if it grows by a billion and a half what can happen if we don't withdraw enough planned funds from the European Union, by a billion and a half, then I'm wondering if anyone will be responsible. If you say it is a neutral point, counterpart Bacic is not because Bacic, in his debate, talked about the expenditures that the EU is, and not in the revenues. The 5 billion-dollar growth, he says, is half the EU's spending. Well, it's also in revenue if it's neutral. Explain that to your colleague Bačić, so it's a fair relationship. I'm just saying, what about eight and a half billion, Minister? What if we come to the execution and it's eight and a half billion, are you ready to put your mandate at your disposal and say I had a bad plan? We had bad plans for people, we missed a billion and a half kuna. We'll hear the answer when we need to hear it. And you told us here that out of the 2 and a half billion that should come from the EU, it remains 3.8 billion kuna on the spending side of the increase although, we heard in the campaigns, the expenditure side will be controlled to essentially be 1.3 compensation measures, which is the tax reform decision. It's a compensatory measure, somewhere that's left two and a half billion of the check is expected to grow. But 2 and a half billion is real growth even though I call real growth 3.8, is it de facto – you invested something to get back – and expenditure growth is 3.8 billion. 3.8 billion in one year is the growth we've had in 2005. Yesterday, a good friend of mine told me: “John, this is dejav. ” In 2005, the 6th stabilising budget, growth to 4%, VAT revenues rise, Škegro has done its job, we already forgot the VAT is on the move, everything goes well, consumption, borrowing, what social structure buys votes, invests where it should and where it doesn't need to be. Exports do not grow, slows down, imports grow, consumption increases, three, four, five billion each year, crisis. Says deja vu 2005, 2006, we'll spend four years again, jump, and in real jump is 15 billion kuna in four years, half of which is the EU, the prime minister I've heard of 15 billion 7.5 is the EU, 7.5 is ours in four years. 7.5 billion kunas we raise our expenditures, and that's the plan. But I wouldn't have anything against that plan if the GDP plan was 5%, I don't have a problem. And we'll bet that we know he'll come back to us, that he'll jump export, that he'll jump employment, and then we'll have growth, not the one we have today. So we humans plan to be where we are today in 2019, it's not good, it's not ambitious enough. And if we're going to spend 7.5 billion kuna more, it's that we have bigger growth. So why don't I plan it and we'll have bigger exports, that we'll have more employment. That would've been nice if we'd seen it here. That deja vu from 2005, I'm afraid it'll happen again. So now it's going to start spending, now it's going to start raising the expenditure side of the budget, each ministry is always going to get half a billion, two billion kunas higher, and then we're going to go back to some crisis after four, five years, then we're going to cry again, who's to blame for what stage of some development of this country. And so I'm asking you to try to work this way, take people's responsibility, and if the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister said we have a clear structure, we know where we're going, deficit 6.8 if it's 8.5 let's hear if someone's going to put a mandate on the table. I'm really interested in that, and I'd really like to see it, no matter what we've had in history, that he's made every promise. The HDZ government, the governments of the left center, were all sorts of things. Let's let go of history, let's introduce some new standards, and if you introduce them, and we'll have to respect them, so it'll be the turn of order, so the citizens will approve it to you when someone takes responsibility for no... and then give us a standard that we can't even change tomorrow. We will remain after the implementation of these budgets and these projections, I am more concerned with projections, not even the current budget for 2017, we remain an import country, without a clear development of industry, without a clear development of the number of employment, exports and clear visions where they should be in 2025. The strategic documents in some sectors have defined this, unfortunately have not been implemented either in tax changes, nor in budgets and projections, but I guess during 2017 you will show us your strategies and a response where Croatia with its exports of employment, the structure of employees, the education system, in which way we will encourage the economy, innovation, new technologies, which industrial sectors, when you give us an answer to this question of what it will look like in 2020, I will really believe that this growth of GDP is not a crucial argument for a serious and stable economy, but it is certainly important for us. And that's why I'm most concerned about not controlling the expenditure growth that's already been happening to us for two thousand years, which eventually led to crises that we could have come out of earlier, but now I've heard a Polish story here. The government of Tusk, which quickly pulled Poland out of the crisis and was one of the most successful governments in the next election, the Poles said no, you did get us out of the crisis, but the right centre won the next election. And now, on a wave of governmental work, which was recognised as the best government in the EU during the crisis, on the wave of these revenues and growth, the right centre spends and slows Poland's growth. We'll get them off, we'll be better than them. Not because we're great, but because they're doing what we're doing right now, but they started a long time ago. Try to change it over the next few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22579	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vrdoljak, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As a colleague of Vrdoljak, you have also pointed out today the importance of education and projects that the HNS is doing very well, so I would remind myself that 22 schools and 10 sports halls were built in Varazdin County from 2005 to 2009 and that after 11 years of analysis of the project, up to 30% were saved compared to the usual construction models. Afterwards, thanks to the entrepreneurship in Varazdin County, especially the mayors of Štromar and the mayors of Koprivnica from the SDP ranks set out in a new cycle of public-private partnership where, based on the European directive, all the guidelines followed the signing of a new cycle of 32 school buildings in Varazdin County and in the town of Koprivnica. All of this was analysed by the State Audit, it also analysed the Department of Finance's inspection supervision and all of them assessed that the project meets all conditions. However, already second in line to the government and the former government, the HDZ and MOST government refuse to fulfil a contractual obligation that was accepted in 2013. I'm interested in Mr. Vrdoljak, do you think he is at the head of the Varazdin County HDZ and is mayor of the town of Koprivnica HDZ whether this government would behave as it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22581	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22582	Well, I don't think we should imagine any fairy tales now because if that were the case ten years ago, there wouldn't be one-way classes in elementary schools or advanced high school education. And I'll remind you of another piece of information. After Zagreb, the best results in state competitions and primary and secondary schools are north of Croatia because they have invested in infrastructure, teachers, centres of excellence, not even in infrastructure, not only schools, not only halls, not only buildings, but also in centres of excellence spend millions of kunas to make their children more competitive children. And that's not the devil, and that's why they have the slightest unemployment rate today, because they're below the European Union average. And then imagine if there was a mayor there from HDZ whether it would be paid or not, I don't think it's too much imagination. You don't need to go to that extent. But I'm sure this is the new government, it communicates differently, I'm convinced that colleagues Maric and colleagues Plenkovic will prove very quickly in the next few months that they will not make the difference between the mayors of any party and that their obligations, knowing that this is reflected not on the mayor, are less important than on children, on communal services, on kindergarten, on school, on high school, on teachers and that they will carry out their obligations. Because there's no reason not to do that, because it's going to happen again that the whole north will be proven punished by the HDZ government. Well, that's what they want right away, so that's what they did in the 2000s. It's 2016, though. So I don't think we should imagine that there should be another mayor there, we won't, but I believe that some new time has come, and they'll prove it over the next three months, and I'm sure they'll pay everything, no reason not to pay, those are commitments, they'll lose the lawsuits, they'll pay the interest, so whoever needs it, they'll lose the election, everyone's bad. They have to pay for it, and they're gonna pay for it, so they're serious people, at least that's what they look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22583	I thank my esteemed colleague Vrdoljak for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned a rhetorical question, or question to the Government, how we will develop the economy with this budget, recover the economy. We all know that the government has declared as one of its main objectives the recovery of the Croatian economy. We also know that the government recognised exports as one of the engines of the Croatian economy's recovery. Now we use economic diplomacy to support exporters in international markets. She's been recognized so far and you remember, we've established her together while you've been a minister of the economy, recognized by the businessmen. Economic diplomacy has been praised by them and has produced really great results that are measurable and that can be very easy to obtain from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But the foreign ministry has cut the budget. And whose budget is that in the foreign ministry? Economic diplomacy. Now, I would like to know if you can tell me your experiences as a minister, and I would like the answers from Minister Maric and Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, in which way this budgetary measure fits into the declared goal of the Government of Croatia to recover the Croatian economy and that exports are one of the main engines for the recovery of the Croatian economy. Because it seems to me that such a measure has just disabled further support for Croatian exporters in international markets that have been given them economic diplomacy. I'll be happy with just two words of answer, and that's: can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22585	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22586	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Klisovic, I don't think that economic diplomacy can only be conducted from the foreign ministry. That's the whole government. Everyone. Absolutely all resistors can contribute. Health care, pension systems, everyone can contribute to economic diplomacy, but our idea was to start at some point. We had one point, and it was an organization of economic diplomacy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and another point of the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness. The budget of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency provides a new 2 million kuna for the promotion of FDI. And that's good. AIK has a little bit more resources, something he had, we've always been in here, we've been a little advertised. Macedonians have always had more money than we have for marketing our investments, and in AIK today, at least more funds are planned for promotion. But then why are we giving up the structure of economic diplomacy, I don't know. Shouldn't it be just the job of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or can't be necessary, it can't be just the job of the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Finance? And we all know that. The ministers know that, too, and we, whoever had some experience. No one was born a minister. No one has completed school as a minister or as a parliamentary representative, but experience has taught us something and through this experience we have learned that only serious interdepartmental cooperation. So the inconsistency of a message where no interest is shown in one ministry, and in the second, funds are raised in the economy to promote direct external investment, such is the translation of FDI, Foreign Direct Investment. So on one side it rises, the other side it takes off inconsistency. Well, I guess that'll make it right. Keep economic diplomacy and ambassadors who really do their job properly, even in the last few years under the minister and deputy, have started doing this job much more seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22587	I thank my esteemed colleague Vrdoljak for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vrdoljak, I have listened carefully to your exposure. I can read a few things out of it that I'm going to mention two of. The first dose is self-critics, which I congratulate you on. Self-critics in the sense that you say things that I think and that I believe you think, which unfortunately neither previous nor many previous governments have done. You were talking about the example of Poland. Yes, the government that decided on painful cuts lost the election to real reforms and that's the price of these reforms. It's said once you sit on the wrong train, all the stations are wrong. Everything after the station. Croatian and Croatian governments sat on the wrong train long ago, many years ago, and this train is called the deficit of the state budget, i.e. the difference between the income and the expenditure side. It should be put to an end, and one can end up in one single way in the first year of office. Now is your chance to break this practice that leads us safely to ruin, and that's on the first obstacle that can happen out of pure peace, who knows what's waiting for us on the international political scene in the coming months, let alone in a few years. This should be done, and to do this again are an example of the municipalities, cities or county that someone mentioned there, Mr. Vrdoljak who have no right to deficit their local budget and for many years already and yet there are successful counties, there are successful cities and there are very successful municipalities. The fact that most of these successful municipalities come from northwestern Croatia or the coastal regions I think is not the merit of any political party but that the merits of the people who have made exactly the positive shifts in their business and it is then recognised at local level and these people continue to win elections and it is simply so. I invite Mr. Vrdoljak to explain a little more how these counties eto Varazdinska was mentioned but there are other counties there is Istria, there is Primorje-goranska, there is Zagreb County, there is Međimurska County, there are numerous cities and numerous municipalities. As they managed to make a positive step in their environments without deficiting their budget because the state is defending us. I'm also mayor of the city, where it can't be a deficit or it's forbidden. And another thing that unfortunately Just one more sentence, introduced by the former government a few years ago, there are no guidelines for making local budgets although the Ministry of Finance has always done so and I ask the Minister from this place to take care of it because the municipalities that do not know how to work are beheaded, they are not municipalities in northwestern Croatia. [[Intruding Brkić: Collateral Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22589	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22590	I'll pay my colleagues back 30 seconds. So the 2011 deficit is 14 billion, the 2015 deficit is 8. We know what was the fall of the previous year 7.2% of GDP, and 2011. 1.2% and the deficit was 14 billion, so we've narrowed it down to eight, it comes to 5.3 this year. We're all surprised because it's good income. Our plan next year is 6.8. Well, I don't see it, then I don't read these numbers well, but there's a difference in surplus-minor -6.8 budget. So there are no municipalities and towns. The municipalities and cities and not the budget users reduce the deficit. They are reducing the deficit as a rule, and they have reduced that in our mandate to understand each other. And they're reducing and now, that means it's generally proven that units of local administrations that have a 20 percent limit on their basic incomes don't go beyond that and still somehow can service it. But not all serve the same. And why is this not an accident in some parts of Croatia? Because the best chooses the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22591	I thank my esteemed colleague Vrdoljak for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Branko Bacic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We politicians often adapt our debates to daily needs, but there is a phonogram here in the Parliament from which we can read what we said a month and a half ago. When the government went with the work programme a month and a half ago and said that by 2020 GDP growth would be 5% and you and almost all representatives of the opposition said the government was unambitious, that this would happen in itself, that it was no big step, that the government could not make the necessary development of Croatia. Now that the government is going with a budget based on the 2016 data, here we are at the end of the year, when it is based on tax reform, when it is based on projects that we know will pay them by means of the state budget by the next year then it is dangerous or contagious, dangerous or contagious optimism that is not sufficiently supported and whether the Government will resign unless it is executed. So I would remind you that, for example, you planned to grow 2% in 2014 and eventually GDP ended up falling 0.7% or 8%. There was no resignation, you weren't from this pay phone saying we won't be held accountable, etc. etc. So it's a good thing to be credible, it's good to have the same relationship when you're in power, when you're in charge of state and when you're trying. That's what I wanted to tell you, so a month and a half ago, this data was unambitious to you, it's going to happen in itself, to us with such results the government doesn't need, and now that it's going with a plan that's real, not at all dangerous, not at all optimistic now you don't accept that plan. So much for credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22593	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague Bačić. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22594	I would ask my colleague Bacic to look at the phonograms of my discussions. I absolutely every time I've told people to be ambitious and if there's anything we can do to help, we'll help. I've said it every time before in the constitution of the government, and in the rebalancing and now. And look at the phonograms, every time I say people aren't enough 3, you've taken over with 2.7. So be more ambitious. Every time I do that. In the government's program, you've set a target of five, okay, you've resetted, tell me why? I don't know, I didn't ask the question. And the other thing, that's what I said at the pay phone, we weren't good enough, we weren't good enough, and we weren't fast enough at first. Well, put your standards on, so I guess your role is to be better than us. Is that right? So if you're raising GDP in your term, if we're raising from -1.7 to +1.7 which in 2011 was -1.7... It's 2.7 this year. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But our overall GDP growth was 3% in office. Year, year, four years. And it's in your plan to be 0.7%. And I wish you ambition and I never said it was too optimistic and unrealistic, I'm not real. Look at the phonograms. Every time I say be more ambitious. It's not good, so it's in the end line because of financial institutions. So the minister will go there very quickly to seek growth in the deficit control rating, with a GDP growth plan, with a tax reform plan that will also have a property tax in the second phase that we are opposed to but ok. Well, I guess that's what they're gonna be looking for, uh, ratings, and then interest cuts, and so on. So how will he justify if he plans to grow 0.5% of GDP within four years, which brings him the tax reform he recently planned. And I've been saying it really from day one not bad. And I said set criteria like we set some criteria, not all because it's never finished talking like you in some past governments probably set some criteria, so you set the criteria for responsibility now. And if there's a responsibility, then why run away now at the beginning. Say so, so tomorrow let's see if any other governments will be inconclusive, if they plan badly, if they will have uncontrollable deficits. Well, he won't allow it. Set new standards, if you like. If you don't want to be worse, then be worse, my God.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22595	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vrdoljak for your reply. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22596	Thank you, Vice President. So, dear colleague Vrdoljak, you are obviously not preparing for local elections, because you spoke much more concretely than counterpart Bernardic, who spoke exclusively politically. You've justifiably pointed out some concerns and you've been reading the budget. However, it seems to me that this hypothetical question of 6.8 billion you have listed and what would be the question of the minister's responsibility? Well, I wouldn't go so pessimistic. There's always someone responsible for something one way or another. And I'd say that's not gonna happen. Here, you were alive and seen. And you generally pessimistically predict about certain items, and actually these very first few months of this government show exactly the opposite. They show a serious and systematic approach. Well, I'd like to ask you if your colleagues Dalic and Maric don't seem systematic and serious. I'd still wait a little while. Of course there are legitimate concerns, of course there are reasons and it's a very constructive debate on your part, but let's wait and see how it ends up. I believe it will end positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22597	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Petriyevcan, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Vrdoljak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22598	Well, obviously we agree that there are critical points and we're afraid that some things will not be realized. But I kind of wanted to bring the debate to some level of responsibility. The policy must eventually come, bear responsibility and ultimately bring some result. Now let's replace the thesis, let's say the result equals responsibility. Well, maybe now's the time, even at a local level or at a state level. Well, maybe that's why I'm offering. You'll decide, it's all okay. But the systematicity, the impression. The impression is very important in politics, especially in the Parliament. Especially as party leaders. I need a score in the departments. I don't need an impression there. And respecting both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, the impression is completely irrelevant. The result is relevant. And if the Minister of Finance says I guarantee that the deficit will not exceed eight and a half billion, it's more than an impression to me a hundred times. If the minister says we'll be on the working business list no matter what we've fallen four places this year next year for two, but at the end of the term, we'll be in the top 30. And if that's my impression, that's the impression. Nothing else in the executive power decides except the results, and the rest of us are fighting for some kind of impression until we get in a position to realize what we promised, and they promised 6.8.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22599	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Vrdoljak. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22600	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Vrdoljak, I did not mean to replicate, but when you mentioned I will tell you Croatian by the time I saw him in 2005 until 2008, 2009. At that time, I was simply a little bit anxious to be honest and analyse the very structure of the budget, remembering what the prime minister said at the outset, and then I'm not very optimistic about these optimistic figures and this growth of the budget. However, what is and probably you have experienced what our citizens suggest, says when you argue, argue that I understand it. Well, I'll try, I believe the minister understands that language. So, if the deficit is six commas, I don't know how many, if the planned income from the EU funds is seven points and something that we can be realistic about in particular this year 2016, how often these tenders are going to stop, so they're not asking what's next year's expectations are. Our people would say that your money is on a long stick. But there's another thing. When the growth of gross social product is based on consumption and I ask you colleague Vrdoljak as long as this is meant to be based on consumption rather than on growth in production. Imports are increasing, exports are also being reduced, production itself. Our people know very well if I don't produce, if I don't, if I have nothing to sell and what I get money from, I won't have anything to spend. So I'm not optimistic, and this certainly reminds me not only of the Christmas budget, but it also reminds me of the recent local elections, and I just think that all my colleagues here can confirm one linear increase to everyone. Let's just take it easy, don't mind anyone. And what's most interesting is that I remember in the last session when we were in the government on the right where structural reforms are headed, in which direction the government is going from this budget, from the prime minister's appearance absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22601	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Vrdoljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22602	So, I'm gonna get a little angry, but it's independent economists, etc. I think that the GDP, the gross social product as a criterion of some government's success, is not crucial at all. We discussed this once, it's such a generally accepted argument, so as now huge GDP growth was in 2005, 6th, 7th, 8th, which led to a terrible blockade of the financial sector,... The fall in the construction sector, and we've had 4.5% growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've all spent, we've been in debt, miracles, how much interest it takes, we've all planned to last forever. GDP is not a criterion at all. We need to agree on what is the criterion of people – is employment, is exports, which in the structure of GDP, gross investment in capital. Yeah, in fixed capital, that's the criterion is that it brings you employment, productivity higher exports, higher production. Those are the criteria. And then we'll wonder if we have GDP growth in consumption that's imported. Unfortunately, and that's even in the plan. And that's why I'm not so optimistic. There's another criterion for people. The government's mandate is being watched, for four years. In 4 years, the number of public sector employees during our government 3 thousand less. I'm asking you to be better. Information, e-Citizens, e-business, e-Government, e-Sabor, I have no idea, whatever it takes. Reduce by 3,000 employees in your term I'll congratulate you and tell you you've been better. And we're going to come here once in three years, so three years from now, not in the public sector, it's not the point of opening up -- here's the message now -- it's not the goal of opening up jobs in the public sector, no. On the contrary, people. That's the problem, and those are all independent analysts always telling us that you're too big a machine. And if we've reduced 3,000 not without public companies,... 11 less, 11 thousand less, and 3 thousand is in the administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Be better than 301 of us. Come with that information, come with a bigger export, with a bigger GDP at the end of the line, I'll congratulate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22603	I thank my esteemed colleague Vrdoljak for his reply to the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22604	Thank you very much. Mr. Vrdoljak, in your debate, you touched on a topic which is particularly worrying, and I don't know if, like me, reminds you of the situation in 2005, 6 and 7, when the Croatian economy was going up and the HDZ government at the time, and apparently that trend government has taken advantage of increased revenues in the economy not to make certain reforms and to prepare the economy or to prepare the country for the difficult times ahead, but that moment when they came into place to buy certain votes through the budget and to raise expenditures. I would like to know how you comment that, compared to 2015, the implementation of the 2015 budget, the budget for 2017 is planned with nine billion kuna more expenditure, regardless of how much one part of this expenditure relates to the European Union and the European Union programme, but billions of kuna seems to me that you have said something over 3 billion kuna does not apply. So 3.8 billion kunas don't apply. After we found the 2011 deficit as a 25 billion government, and when we brought about 7.8 billion kuna, watch out for the paradox now, the prime minister in his debate says there will be a smaller deficit. But it's going to be a deficit. He could've been even smaller. It could have been for those 3.8 billion kunas an even smaller deficit and we could have a much better and healthier blood count and public finances than we'd have. This reminds me of the same situation as Shucker Economics. Shucker economy, spend more than you have and be more wasteful than you should be for a second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22605	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Congratulations on your accuracy. Answer Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22606	Everyone knows what that means. This is interesting. So, I'll tell you honest fellow Maras. I think behind us is the time of the HDZ that was in 2000. That it won't happen that they will now spend several new billions of kunas on HVO. Now I'm reading today in the paper, it says there's a new Law on Defense, including the HVO. That's 2 billion a year. He's not even on board. I really don't think it's going to happen and it's not going to be buying some votes. These are more serious. I'm sure there won't be any corruption at that level that was in Sanader's government and during that HDZ. New times have come, people. It's been ten years, half of them in prison. The rest, I guess, we learned some lessons, and we all learned some lessons. But also, I also understand that you don't need to radically go screw some surplus. Why? We need to generate growth. We were a government that didn't make strong moves, and it complained to us. And this government doesn't go with a strong move to go conscious of the deficit in the first year, and if they had squeezed, they could have hit 0.9. Why? You don't have to. Better generate growth. But I don't see the growth that Croatia wants. I see consumption growth. I don't see any growth in the expression. That's all I'm worried about, and I'm not inclined to go, so it's better in three years to plan that deficit crash, that's fine. But it's not good to generate 3.8 in one year. And I'm sure you won't buy the votes of six new billion commitments for, I don't know, a potentially new law of Croatian defenders or 2 billion for HVO fighters. Is that what you didn't plan at the end of the line, so I don't believe that, in those papers, I don't even want to believe in them because you haven't shown them as extra expenses and you won't, I don't believe in corruption. Why? You've provided additional funds to both DORH and BUSKOK, and I've seen that there's more resources. They work in terrible conditions there, it's a disaster. They're under-opacted. It's a good thing you've helped these people, and in the end, you've sent a message, so let them do their job. You are dealing with what is your obligation to Croatian citizens, but better than you planned here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22607	I thank my esteemed colleague Vrdoljak for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22608	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Vrdoljak, I agree with you that not everything is black and white, especially when we are talking about a public private partnership. That's why I don't know if you're aware that from 2005 to 2014, the loudest opponent of the building of schools and court was the "JPP" model. I don't know if you're aware that every press debate about a public private partnership was a public private robbery, the SDPs claimed until 2014. I don't know if you're aware that in 2007, the Treasury carried out budget surveillance and that it was then found that the budget was over-indebted or overloaded, that the debt was accumulated because of the JPP year-on-year in order to literally go bankrupt in 2013. And then this agreement appears between the Ministry of Science and the Varazdin County. You were Prime Minister in the government of Prime Minister Milanovic and the question arises why did the government of Prime Minister Milanovic not agree to the agreement? Why didn't the Minister of Finance agree to this agreement? Is everything as clean as you two are talking? I don't know if you're aware that all the original companies that built this model were building halls and schools with that model failed? That these kings, the kings of JPP, had founded new companies to which money is being left, and that dozens of co-operatives of private entrepreneurs and craftsmen might have remained deprived of money for building these schools and halls without talking about the cost of that model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22609	I thank my esteemed colleague, Uncle, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's not all black and white in either JPP or in this assembly, we see it according to schools in Varazdin that function, which are satisfied children, parents satisfied and halls and we have JPP halls. To see one administration that built the halls that was satisfied with her and that model of JPP, it's not the black white world, that's what we agreed. The other thing, it's very unusual for me that you're really against it either, so there was some model at the time without money, state without money, all of you are chemistry and you're still against it, these schools exist from that same county. I am convinced that tomorrow the finance minister would find for all 20 counties of 15 million a year, that's 300 million kuna to give them, and that the unemployment rate in each county is 5%. So tomorrow I'd give them, 300 million kunas a year, the mayors, here's what they did. Unemployment rate 5%. So imagine how much we need the infrastructure in industrial education, the knowledge of local administration management in Lika to get to that? Well, that's billions, and we need to invest, and we need to help these people in Lika and Lika-Senj County, that's what I thought. So we understand each other completely. Maybe someone used to be against, maybe something black and white, the result took responsibility, got results, unemployment rate 5, kids great in state competitions, resulting in equal responsibility. That's what I expect from you tomorrow. What did anyone say in 2005, I don't care. I'm sorry they're better than Osijek-Baranja County, I'm sorry. I want to change it or any other county, but they're better because they've made the result. And now you're counting which in 2005, 2007 so what does your parents care about, so what do you care about those people who work there in the industry so they got the result they wanted from their politics? I want that for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22611	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President Vrdoljak, for his reply. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. Next reported on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished counterpart Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22612	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's Mr. Vrdoljak has presented very sharply, but I as a representative of the option which suggests this budget, so I must say that we can be too pleased that we have yet created a budget like this which will create assumptions of exactly what you were looking for, which is to raise exports and reduce imports. In fact, we all witnessed the structure of our economy that it was changing, that last year 2015 exceptional situations led to an increase in exports but in the structure of our economy nothing happened or any shift from that previous period that would fix it so quickly that the effect would be immediately visible in the first year and in 2017 respectively. Also, when we talk about a real gross product, we are aware that this government has previously been criticised for not having a vision or not being optimistic in one way, and it has proved that GDP growth has grown significantly, so since 2015 by 1.6 it has increased 2.7. And then again it's not good for us and we say that in 2017 it's not that ambitious, and it's projected at 3.2, so in 2018 and cautiously in 2019 of 3.3. If this government said in presenting that it was using a conservative method, then this is exactly that conservativeity, and then it's based on realistic indicators that 2.7 is the starting point that's started, and 0.5% is the multiplier effect of the reform that's just been made, and that's how it affects this 3.2% increase, I think it's important to all of us and how important that this stability is, and this very credibility is not as mantra, but really something that will contribute to us all living better. In fact, the total income as you saw in 2017 increased by 4.5 percent and it increased in 2018 and 2019 to 132.3 billion, and when you look at income structures, you see that tax revenues have increased. But it's actually interesting that the tax income structure has grown. In fact, colleagues talked about what is with local units when income tax growth is not foreseen. In fact, it is not because the proposal in 2017 and there is no income tax growth but it falls by 11.3% precisely because the non-taxable part or reliefs are higher, and thus, in fact, lower incomes, until practical conditions are created for increasing employment and then it could only generate income growth and growth in general from that tax. Also in profit, if tax reform is reduced as is known, profit tax, from 20 per 18 per cent and 12 per cent for small entrepreneurs up to 3 million kuna, then it is quite realistic that this profit cannot objectively grow at least at the first time until the structure of investment is also changing the economy itself. In fact, this effect that shows how much these effects of change in tax regulations can actually only bring some growth in the long term. The contribution is something different because we have expanded the base, and what is further interesting is these aids when the minister also explained that these aids are, in fact, the largest part of the EU funds, because they are now $11.2 billion and the other aids that stand in the income structure. So that's an increase of 32.7 percent. We need to know that in this effect of income from EU funds, in fact, everything that we do, or how much we withdraw and project, we are still ambitious here, and we are trying to work through this kind of contribution to the budget to practically start all that is needed and what is missing from other sources of income. So you see through these plans that are in the Ministry of Regional Development which will actually include a very wide range of needs, whether in agriculture or in social relations, whether in employment or in similar terms, so it is actually vision, or investments, it is actually a vision of how quality can be achieved with as little debt as possible, given that we have large liabilities to credit institutions from some previous periods, and that what is important is that in the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets are really important to that part of the property and that it would also consider that, and a good estimate of what is possible, in fact in which way to engage that property which is quite three or which is not put into operation, whether by selling, whether concessions or already in a way that will bring as much quality management of that property, which in any case warns and state audit not only the budgets and assets of local self-government units. When we talk about spending itself, here's this plan of 128.4 billion kunas, so that's 6.7 billion more, and that's what's already repeated more times than what they're made of and what they're doing. However, what is also important in these increases in individual ministries when you saw in the cross-section of how much more funds the ministry received, it should also be noted that part of the decentralised funds were actually transferred to those ministries which were the holders of these decentralised ones which were previously only in the Ministry of Finance, and this is partly the increase shown, which primarily refers to the Ministry of Health, Science, Education and the like. So 2.9 million and 2.9 billion EU funds are actually the means that are a potential cost, but not necessarily if all the provisions are not implemented at the end of the day, or if they are not agreed and implemented at the end of the business as required by the projects, it is in fact up to us to continue to educate all the participants in this and in other and all the other participants to spend as much quality as possible with all the regulations in order not to give up any finalisation, or to really comply with the regulations. What is important to say at the very cost is that the government has indeed sought to respect all that was foreseen in the programme itself, which is that, in part, the growth of the wage mass, not in perhaps the amount some structures expected, but that 700 million kuna predicted, is a fact. Similarly, an increase in pensions of 578 million is foreseen, that maternity permits are also allowed and for working mothers will increase to 4 thousand kuna, as well as for unemployed mothers, which is a very important measure and a very high quality measure, a long-term measure, not a one-off but a long-term one that will then really give security to everyone in the system that really has income and can expect these revenues. Rural development measures are also important where over 700 million kuna is greatly increased and we also have different capital investments in many ministries and that is over 645 million kuna. Indeed, in all of this, we can say that the deficit, the overall budget deficit, is significantly less than what was expected, or which was at all set by the EU, which is 3% of GDP, is therefore for the state budget 1.9 and in relation to the total government, including the extra budget funds 1.6. This is actually a turning year when we have and you saw it in that curve when GDP, or continued to fall in the share of public debt in GDP, which was 86.8%, and then we see it falling to 84.6 and 82% respectively. This is a very important message for the growth of the credit rating, although what is still very important is that when you look at and through the implementation of the state budget that the situation for first maturity and outstanding liabilities fell from 31.12.2015 to 39. 2016, it means from 2.9 billion to 2.24 billion. This does not mean that all the problems in certain segments have been solved are certainly not yet, but that this is also an important message we must certainly acknowledge. In any case, this draft budget is supported by the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22613	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for this debate. He had a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22614	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdana Peric, you made a statement on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club that you absolutely did not support and was in one of your first sentences, you say that this budget will ensure that exports are raised and imports are reduced. Now, I would like you to elaborate a little bit on how the budget can help reduce imports especially in a situation where unfortunately there are not enough measures that will increase our economy's competitiveness to make our products more competitive, if in this way we could sell better on the domestic market. On the other hand, we see every day that no matter what exports grow, but it has nothing to do with this concrete budget, but with the measures that have been taken over the past years, we don't see how you continue to give an impulse to that work because there are no significant subsidies in the budget to exporters like they used to be. And another thing you said is that you're saying that the deficit or the budget gap is going to be less than in 2016. This disproves you in these materials since in the general part of the budget you can see that the 2016 plan is that the difference between the surplus and the lack of income or operating expenditure of the state is for 2016. 5.3 billion and the draft budget for 2017 is 6.8 billion kuna. So it's going to be less expenditure, or less costs or deficits, if the plan already says that it's going to be 1.5 billion kuna. So that's very illogical, and I ask you to look at the material if you haven't caved in to see that it's also planned to be a greater difference in expenditure and income than it was this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22615	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Grozdana Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22616	Well, colleague Maras, we need to know that our structure is the very economy, the industry that actually dictates the relationship between imports and exports. If we continue to base ourselves only on this existing one, and nothing will change with these measures that are in one way an indicator of how and in which direction the Government wants to develop industry, then we will still have this unfavourable amount and the ratio of exports and imports. So there's a long way to convert the entire industry into something that will be more favourable, that is to make it exportable. Unfortunately, it must be improved through various measures and what you mentioned by your colleague Vrdoljak and education and everything else. So we have to create these preconditions, we have to create preconditions to make ourselves even more interesting and competitive in order to develop such branches. This relative to the deficit here I was talking about the relative deficit ratio, not nominal, and that's why there are these differences because always the relationship that talks about relative is relative to the current budget, not the nominal one that you're talking about over the previous year. It's about discussing whether it's more or less, but I was talking about a relative relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22617	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peric, on behalf of the club, you were very much like the prime minister, especially when it comes to spending, spreading an unfounded optimism. In fact, the fact is that it is a very wasteful policy of the current government and the fact is that a large part of the debts that await us are practically not shown at all. I've come very quickly to 40 billion expenses that are not in this budget. So let's say that you have significantly less reserved the amount for salary growth, 700 million kuna, than is required only on the basis of an increase in the education sector of 6%, which is 1.8 billion kuna. It is estimated that within that amount 200 million kuna, there is an estimated growth in education wages, and the compromise proposal itself, i.e. the government's offer to trade unions is around 700 million kuna. So there's the first billion. You can't see a regress item anywhere and a Christmas card for civil servants who have them under a valid collective contract. The estimate is another billion kuna. Health debts, so 40% increased compared to the end of 2015 and are already estimated to be about 4 billion debts to hospitals. So I've already reached six billion kunas. Only 1.3 billion kuna are reserved in the budget for compensation to local self-government units. The estimate is about 2 billion, so another 0.7 billion. And this is colleague Peric, my dear 6.7 billion kuna, which is not in the budget. And if we add to this now the liabilities of public debt refinancing, which, together with the 2017 deficit, will amount to 33 billion kuna. I've come to 40 billion kuna expenses for which we don't really know how to solve them. So the whole budget is like a colorful pre-election balloon that can break dangerously at any moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22619	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his replica. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22620	So you add up what is already part of it, and it is shown. Namely, if it is, here you were talking about a health debt. Therefore, in the budgets of the current ministries in 2017, one di obligation was planned, and one part of the commitments must have remained from the previous period. If you add up all these supplements that you said about wages and other things, so probably not everything can be done one time, and that's what it's not for you to expect all of them to be able to honor themselves one time. However, I am convinced that you will find a model of how and how to return everything that is in a certain way set as standard to all. Therefore, we can add and read exactly what is already in the deficit, i.e. in commitments. Therefore, you can see from the very financing account that what part is planned in the debt, that is, what is the obligation to credit institutions and how much is the obligation to the interest itself. Therefore, there is always one part of the funds in the budget, and also one part of the one that will settle through a certain way of refinancing. So we can't add pears and apples.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22621	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your first sentence, you showed the thesis that you were too pleased to create such a budget while thinking about the government. When I heard that sentence of yours, I didn't really know if I'd be appalled by hypocrisy or by the sudden change in your attitude in the last three years. And actually, when I thought about it a little bit better, then I actually felt sorry for it because it's not easy for you. You've been head of finance for many years in the city of Zadar. You've managed your finances in some way through the Committee on Finance and the Zadar County itself. And today you've been brought into a very unpleasant situation as a person loyal to the party, as chairman of the Finance Committee, that in the name of the HDZ Club you're actually defending a budget that takes 2 billion kunas from local self-government units and boasts that it's fired on the pocket by billions of kunas that you know well in Zadar in some way triggering the development of the city. And why do I actually feel pity? Because in 22.3.2012, you and Mr. Vrancic were screaming as the mayor at the time, screaming. We're introducing a 12% cut into the city of Zadar after 22 years. We kept it for the darkest days that came upon the arrival of SDP and HNS, etc. You were screaming, saying that the VAT was raised then, that the income tax had been reduced, that local self-government had been compromised. You were screaming about the sustainability of the city of Zadar budget, and you're actually in a situation today that you're actually defending these same actions today. Not only that, but that you're clapping at them. Sad and sad. I was expecting to admit to you no matter what you say on behalf of the club, to talk about some things, to talk about why, let's say, I hope you'll do it in your individual debate, why there's still no hope for the University of Zadar to deprive them of the damage done to them last year where the guarantees for the completion of the center... where the funds to build a new high school of Pag. Why the rebalancing cut funds for the construction of the port of Gaženica, you didn't say A. Here, I'm just sorry that you've been brought into such a position that you have to talk to each other today, and tomorrow you have to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22623	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, the Replicator. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22624	Well, you don't have to feel sorry for me. I don't expect pity at all. In fact, we're always like a party and I personally knew how to deal with problems and we did it very successfully. Despite the fact that in 2012, when you were speaking the city was damaged for over 25 million kuna which on behalf of income tax... And there was nothing so significant replaced, though. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after the compensatory measures, here's the city had over 11 million kunas from income tax, not counting everything else. Therefore, we know what this means, and we were really invited then in 2012, or forced to introduce a cut, but for the reason that this was then the result of the economic crisis. Thus, the economic crisis that reduced investment, which reduced revenues in general and generally over 40 million kuna. So these are other reasons and it has nothing to do with this. And here also in this situation, you have nothing to regret because this government will find ways and understand, because the government has not spoken to local self-government units. This one, however, is very much talking and taking care of how it will compensate them and how to create preconditions in order to make sure that everyone has enough resources to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22625	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague, Peric. Next came the replica by the distinguished colleague of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22626	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, it's an interesting finding that you believe that the government is taking care of compensatory measures. Except it doesn't say anything. And the other thing is, isn't it unusual that there really isn't any growth in these compensatory measures? If we're already planning a growth of about 3.8 billion in the state budget, there could have been about 4% for local self-government as compensation measures, and that would have been 40 million kuna. And I believe that the city of Zadar could certainly use it. But let's see what's going to happen in the bill and what's going to be the realization of what we haven't seen, and so far it doesn't say. It's another thing. You said conservative approach. Maybe a world view? Not operationally. Because we're going right now with income growth, expenditure growth. It's certainly not a conservative approach. It's an approach that says that how much income increases, even more expenditure increases, and we're going to have a greater deficit next year than this year. And another objection to your performance. You're saying the profit tax isn't growing. Well, it's growing. How can it not grow? The profit tax income plan is the same as last year, and we have a rate of 10% lower. 2% in a pleasant amount. This means that at the same level of profit tax as last year, if a billion and a half kuna is incomed less, and the same expenditure is planned. So, this year 2017, we expect 10% higher or 20% higher income than profit tax... The rate is lower than the previous one we greet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's planned growth. We believe in a real sector that will pay a profit tax. It can't, of course, use the reinvested profit, and then it'll generate that billion-and-a-half sure, because unfortunately you've eliminated the chance to invest directly in fixed capital, and we have a very good ambitious desire to grow 8% of our fixed capital investment in next year, and we've abolished the reinvested profits. So it's not, recapitulation is not a conservative approach. It may be world-famous, but it's not operational.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22627	I thank my esteemed colleague Vrdoljak for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22628	Well, when you talk about profit tax, it's in 2017 at 7 billion and 165 compared to 2016 when it was 7 and 224. So he's smaller. It is also expected to be smaller in the year when it is adjusted which is the first year in the introduction of new rates, and in 2018 and 2019 it brings 2% higher and 3.7% higher respectively. Therefore, it is normal for profit tax growth to be in the next periods because the accounting year 2017 is exactly the one that is the beginning year. Therefore, only the expected total growth can be expected in the next period from the profit tax as shown here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22629	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague, Peric. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ana-Marie Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22630	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, Mrs. Peric, I think that this budget is a typical budget for the upcoming time of local elections and that we can freely say that in this budget it is divided by hand and hat, and it is not too much to ask where the funds will come from. And suddenly, in the photofinish, it was found on the revenue side of several billion European funds, and the other day we rebalanced the funds that despite the strong promises the authorities failed to withdraw from the European funds, and the same coalition is now in power, the same people and the same promises again. In your debate, you have also highlighted and mentioned tax reform and these funds from European funds, and I ask you, don't you think that this budget will still not be sustainable because it is based on these means and on the tax reform that you have highlighted yourself for, we don't know how it will ultimately be achieved because the VAT has increased in tourism and that part that is largely full of our budget, and also this increase in the minimum wage that has now been made the other day because with tax reform, you have increased the most for those who have the most. And precisely the best instrument for better standards for the poorest part of the citizens is to raise the minimum wage to almost 50 or 60% of the average gross salary in Croatia because they spend that money. We appreciate, of course, that there is a certain population that has increased material rights, but I ask you this way, and what about the workers because if you give a piece of bread and you get away with the fact that they've only given crumbs before, that doesn't mean that people are satisfied and they'll be fed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22631	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ani-Marie Petin, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22632	Well, dear colleagues, it is really important that the EU funds will be withdrawn from and for which purposes and how these projects will be structured. It is also important that all payments and the Agriculture Agency and other agencies are very spotless and it is actually a generator that will run everything because unless we create exactly these preconditions, liquid conditions for the government and all agencies and all other state budget entities to function in a quality way, then we certainly will not achieve anything. Tax reform why we say, you say with a fence according to tax reform. Well, no one is sure in advance that everything will happen as best he would have wanted, but it does everything that happens, or that each segment will be perfectly covered and done so that everyone in that system can benefit. Namely, if there is a system in which we will collect and collect enough funds to then be able to locate justly those who need help, whether it's in the social community, whether it's in health care or something, then it needs to be done in a systematic and quality way. We will also create these preconditions that every employee with these small shifts to create a prerequisite that we all have better salaries and better living conditions, and also a better and fairer attitude towards the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22633	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague, Peric. Just one piece of information, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Because of the large number of cases that have been reported for debate, we will not determine a break so that you can plan your time and organise how you think it's most optimal. We're moving on with the replicas. Next to the replica, dear colleague Mile Horvat appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22634	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Peric, you said in one part when you referred to the EU funds that we are quite ambitious in the idea of withdrawing as much funds from the EU as possible. Of course we all want it and we think it's one of the key sources to help the budget should be. However, I want to say here what our position is in all of this regarding our neighbouring EU member states, according to the figures of 2015, how much the state has paid, how much funds it has withdrawn in 2015, is interesting data. Poland paid 3.5 billion euros, withdrew 17,5 billion euros. Hungary paid 890m euros, withdrew 6.6 billion euros. Greece has paid a billion, withdrawing over 7 billion euros from EU funds. Romania has paid about a billion euros, withdrawing 6 billion euros in funds. We paid 324 million in 2015 and withdrew 556 million euros. We think it's a big deal, it's a good job, but the comparative data says we're only at the beginning of the job. The question arises whether we have negotiated all these things well, whether we have prepared well and created quality infrastructure in a horizontal vertical direction to parise these surrounding countries in withdrawing these funds. He's got money. There's obviously no good system. We didn't train people, and as a country, we didn't sectorally adjust to withdrawing such large funds. And we're lucky if we make 100 million a year. Romanians count for billions. 5 and a half billion euros to Romania, the neighbouring country of us who entered the European Union five years ago was revenueing in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22635	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22636	We can't be satisfied with the overall withdrawal so far. This has been mentioned several times, and this has been said by counterpart Maletic and so on, so we are certainly not satisfied with the structure and what has been done so far in the previous period, but since it is still a process that requires a certain preparation, which requires all the documentation and everything else to be done, the resolution of property relations and so on, therefore all of these are the preconditions that are then created so that a particular project can be achieved. So I am convinced that according to the knowledge of how much work there is in the Ministry of the Regional and what programs there are and how all these plans are actually planned to be done through regulations and methodology. So, there's a lot of work to do and I really hope that this government is going to step up and then we're going to have more effects in the long run over these 11 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22637	I thank my esteemed colleague Peric for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22638	My colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Perić, in your debate on several occasions you pointed out that the budget is ambitious and that we all have to act responsibly and qualitatively towards the budget or in the cost of the budget. So here's an example so you can evaluate whether it's responsible or quality. The Varazdin County came in two years ago to open tenders for the construction, new construction of a single section and to adapt primary schools to four locations. This total cost per JPP model of 397 million kuna. So in four locations of the upgrade, one part of the new construction and one part of the adaptation of the old space. In parallel, in the area of the town of Varazdin, an investor built a business building that has 28 apartments. The average size of the apartment is 50 square meters and this investment costs 10 million kuna. In fact, 40 buildings or 1120 apartments can be built for these 397 million kunas. So now I'm asking you if it's responsible for four locations to build schools, one part to adapt for such a large amount. If we're talking about the state of the economy in Varazdin County, here's some ambitious data. Index of growth in municipalities and cities: Yalzabet 131.8 percent HDZ; High 128.6 HDZ; Breznica 122.9 HSS; Trnovec Bartolovsky 121.5 HNS; Gornji Kneginec 120.9 HDZ. They're among the better. Lošji: Veliki Bukovec 89.6 HNS; Konnik 91.4 HNS; Ljubjestica 96.3 HDZ; Varazdinske Toplice 96.4 HNS; Srećenica 96.9 HNS; Varazdin 98.4 HNS, or Varazdin County, is in a positive economy because of the environments run by HDZ officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22639	I thank my esteemed colleague, Uncle, for the replica. There's no answer. Thank you very much. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22640	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, I am pleased that in your presentation you mentioned again that Croatia's budget is being worked outside Croatia, that we are being imposed on the parameters we have to meet, which is why you reaffirmed that Croatia has no independence or sovereignty, so neither monetary nor fiscal sovereignty, so we cannot own our own money, but in the distribution of our money, the European bureaucrats decide. This speaks for itself, however, when we talk about the deficit and debts Croatia must settle in 2017, the budget provides that Croatia will issue bonds worth 25 billion kuna 400 million. Please tell me as chairman of the Finance Committee who you'll be buying these bonds to. Then Croatia will be in charge of 8 billion kunas. Please tell me on which market and under what conditions. And also that Croatia will cover some of the costs by privatising 1 billion kuna, so I wonder if you know what we will sell again, at what price and whether there are again water sources like the Studenac we sold this year. Do we perhaps not know now whether we will again be giving concessions to Brijuni or Plitvice Lakes which were also mentioned, and surely it will come in order if not now in the coming years, because the sale of state property simply has no justification, and especially not the sale of strategic resources and companies, as we have seen this year was sold Podravka, Končar, so here I think it is simply a very bad budget projection. I'm asking for an obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22641	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his replica. And a reply to the replica, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22642	Well, counterpart Bunjac, Croatia has its own independence and all the decisions made are actually made to make it better for all of us and not to show it to someone else. So if we manage quality our obligations, our debts and everything else, then that means we're going to have a better credit rating, then that means we're going to have a better status, and then that means we're going to do a pretty good job in certain items that we may have had too high by now. Therefore, it is certainly that independence because it is our concern about how we will do business and how we will create preconditions for quality life. In fact, all these duties will certainly have knowledge, i.e. the Minister of Finance, but what is the intensity in this budget is that as high as possible and with as little interest as possible, there is actually a debt to be achieved so that all the obligations we have from the previous periods when that infrastructure has actually brought about these certain obligations. Therefore, we certainly know how to manage our obligations and we also know how to manage the market, i.e. the way in which we will be in charge of the private and domestic market.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22643	I thank my esteemed colleague Peric for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia's distinguished colleague, Prof. Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22644	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the minister is gone, the MPs and MPs, the respected citizens who watch us through your TV receivers, I welcome you all together before my debate begins. As a professor of economics, I can say something more professional here about the draft of this budget. I see in these discussions people wonder why some budgets are in deficits, surpluses, etc. This is simply the consequence of better or worse macroeconomic policy. So if she's bad for the past few years we've had a deficit deficit, if she's good, we have a surplus. We obviously have a chronic problem with poor macroeconomic policy that legally produces deficits of the state budget. Listening to today and sitting directly with me here in the Parliament today, there are 16 MPs present and respected citizens thank you, actually for choosing that you have received. But what am I going to say now, what am I going to say about the budget itself? By listening to the opposition itself here, you can see that the opposition is both hopeless, the budgets that she's been doing are the same, the same pattern as HDZ and MOST are now doing. But here's the finance minister, and I'd like to commend him on the number six annex in a total report that's on some 800 and some pages. Why? Because there are reasons for the proposal of the financial plans of the users where it is explained what, why, etc. It's compared to the past budget that I've seen here a positive improvement and a man if he's honest and accepts arguments that should be commended for what I'm doing right now. However, allow me, as a parliamentary representative, but also a professor of economy, to look back and make some of my proposals, as well as my objections to this budget. I said just before what the majority of the SDP opposition said, it's gentlemen all the camels, unfortunately, the camel is ordinary and you assigned this country during your term of office to public debt for 102 billion kuna. Of course, now is not my aim to speak here as much as anyone in charge of Croatia could be particularly discussed but it is not this topic of conversation. But what is the proposal for this budget now? He is very optimistic because, optimistic are expectations that the GDP growth rate in Croatia in the coming year will be 3.2%, and the institutes do not give that much look. But I would draw attention here that the projections of the average GDP growth in the European Union are below 1% which does not promise the growth of foreign demand for our exports to which I very much want to rely. In addition, yesterday, I also said that at a debate on the Committee on Finance that the Commission on Fiscal Policy, made up of respected and public finances professors, expressed concern that an alternative scenario was not worked out, what if GDP growth is not 3.2%, is someone today and said it rather than if it is 1.5%? So somebody's gonna say so we're going to rebalance and we're going to have sex, etc... And secondly, this Committee is concerned because fiscal rules are not defined, i.e. certain limits of certain expenditure positions etc. I would also like to say that the situation in the economy in Croatia is not as it is shown. We see it well. Bank credit activity has been in constant decline for years, according to both the business sector and the citizens. Furthermore, industry revenues are dropping. Only tourism records real growth and this is risky in the longer term, good but risky. The number of blocked citizens and businesses is growing. Unemployment is still being solved by most of the exports of our people, i.e. by emigration. We all want to balance the budget, that would be ideal or have a surplus. However, we from the party Change Croatia consider ourselves a political centre and those who bring solutions, ideas how to solve problems economically and others in Croatia. What do we propose to the Government, Minister of Finance, that might help the entire society? You see here the health minister is Mr. Kujundzic when the disease is dangerous after the diagnosis you can see that the man has cancer, what is he going to do? If it doesn't help anything else scalpel is taken to cut it and not to get Andol to take off the temperature. Gentlemen and dear citizens who listen to us, the most dangerous disease in this country is growing interest on public debt. They now amount to nearly 12 billion kuna. That makes 10% of the budget's income, 10% of the budget's income. I remind you at the end of 2010, interest on public debt amounted to 5.8 billion kuna, but I remind you of something else from 2005 to 2010 the interest on public debt increased from 4.4 to 5.8 billion kuna, you see in 5 years, and by 2010, by now, from 5.8 to almost 12 billion. So is this a sign enough to make people who run this country turn around and wake up and cut this? While I was in the MOST, I warned about the problem and they supported it at the time. No one from the Most today mentions interest, and this doesn't seem to be a problem. And here's what I left Most for. Furthermore, real change must therefore come into the budget due to drastic interest cuts on the kuna part of the public debt. All right, now you're gonna say so well, finally say what you're about to say. And I say like this, how can we just solve this? There's something in the CNB called a capital account and it has 16 billion kunas, 16 billion kunas. What does 16 billion kuna represent? There is a accumulated profit of the CNB from the date of its founding to this day. According to the most conservative, the most cautious estimates there should remain in the general and special reserve for the stability of CNB operations of up to 6 billion kuna. So we have 10 billion kunas waiting, ready to be used in these most difficult times for Croatia. So the question is why is the owner of these funds, and the owner of the CNB is the state of Croatia, i.e. we here, or even more precisely citizens. So far, why haven't you SDP gentlemen and you from the HDZ now and the Most raised that question? That's what I asked the minister yesterday if he knew about it? I'm sorry that Mr. Plenkovic here as prime minister who acts really is a Primus inter parasa. To answer the question does he know that there are 10 billion kunas that are now invaluable to Croatia? As far as I understand and get the answer, they're not familiar with it, for Mr. Plenkovic I suppose. So now the question is, can we take it back? Look at the decision on getting what will be with getting the owner, of course first to meet the reserves, but you see the owner doesn't seem interested in part of the 10 billion kuna property that he's sitting there to use today and you here today, I've listened to you each fighting carefully for a few million whether to transfer from this house here to that one and possibly increasing the revenues of the state budget of 10 billion kuna no one mentions. I'm here publicly asking for an answer to this question because we can't get in the way of this. So besides what he had, we just turn out to be poor and it turns out nobody knows anything about it or says anything. Well, that's why we change Croatia, we came to change Croatia but in this radical way with new solutions that are very, very clear. Now, what else is important to say here? How can the revenues of the state budget still be increased? The revenues of the state budget can be increased in a way that 160 billion kuna public debt in Croatia, 160 billion kuna public debt over the next year in 2017, is costing 5% on average at an interest rate of 5% to refinance cheaper loans with 2%. Savings on such refinancing would be $160 billion in public debt to $ 4.8 billion. What else is possible to save to contribute to the state budget? Yesterday, I proposed an amendment relating to public procurement through automated electronic reverse auctions related to small purchases of up to two hundred thousand kunas at the macro level of 10 billion kuna. The savings would be 2 billion kuna, however, the amendment was not accepted, it was rejected and respected MPs and MPs, dear citizens only these 3 items I made could save the state budget 16.8 billion kuna. These could be revenues during 2017. So the question is, is there any power in this country to finally lead a new economic policy to get this country out of the misery of life and to show that we know how to manage ourselves? But what else does it show? It turns out there is no political will and no courage, everything here has been questioned who can be taken down but no one can touch the amount of interest. Even projected for next year, Minister Maric said some 270m kunas are expected for interest. So it's not nearly 12 billion and it's still going to be around 270 million kuna. Well, gentlemen, that means politically translated, you can touch everything, you can take everything, but you can't touch those who interest the economy and who interest the state. That's Croatia's problem. Don't run from him, you who now exercise authority in this country. That's the point of my speech, not about who we're going to take, who we're going to transfer to. This country must finally make the right moves. Unfortunately, I'm currently in opposition, but I strongly suggest, you see concrete solutions. They're benefiting all of us here. This is not, is that we started it, but this is for the benefit of all citizens of Croatia, our economy. So look at the amount of interest – once again to make it more picturesque – around it means almost 12 billion kuna. That's two and a half times as much interest we have to pay on the basis of public debt, rather than, say, the defence ministry's budget. 2.2 times the amount of interest, rather than the budget of the MUP. Five times the amount of interest, for example, from the economy ministry's budget. It is 10 times larger than the budget of the Ministry of Defence, or the Ministry of Regional Development. So it is quite clear that the battle with debt is lost unless the philosophy of the country's economic policy changes. We cannot win the fight against interest, against debt if our GDP growth rate is lower than the interest rate on public debt. Today, we need a 3.5% PDB growth so this country can only return interest. You see growth now is 2.7%. It's planned for 3.2% next year. So next year, if GDP growth were achieved, we still wouldn't be able to pay off just the interest that comes to us. When you have a country that has such economic activity and the development of the situation, we say to it that it is continuous in the debt crisis and that it has entered the debt slavery phase. Dear citizens, do you want to live on in debt slavery? I'm sure not. Does your children want to stay mine in Croatia? You want to be safe. But you can't do each other. We must finally make state decisions. In this country, someone must finally establish order and make assumptions that young people can work, that they can sabi buy apartments, that they must flee and that those who live from work and live. So, if you ask me, it's this social democracy, and we haven't seen fighting for it in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22645	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22646	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I would like to say that by listening to Mr. Lovrinovic, I have seen that he is actually detecting that there is a serious problem in our society and that this problem is not being solved. From government to government, from deficit to deficit, from debt to debt, from sale to sale. Our policy is constant. Nothing's changed in the last 25 years. And it is justified to ask the question, should such a policy continue or change? The common sense tells us that if we got into some kind of trouble along the way, we couldn't continue to get out of them. However, this government argues against that Einstein's saying that we will continue the same path that led us into destruction into the light, that is to say, the end of that tunnel. I don't think there's one thing that's clear to me. There's talk here of a 2.6% deficit of the total GDP. However, the budget deficit should be counted against the revenue of the budget rather than on the total GDP. And another thing. Mr. Lovrinovic, I have a question for you. If we know that the government itself admits that there is a deficit of 8 billion kuna in the budget and that the bill comes from 27 billion kuna credits that they essentially have nowhere to return from, why don't they account for that lack of 27 billion kuna as a budgetary expenditure, or the cost of the state, because in that case, the deficit assuming that the 8 billion deficit itself was actually 35 billion would be that hole that needs to be refinanced in some way? It seems to me that this government is running some weird methodology, a strange bookkeeping that ultimately aims to cover up the real state of things. As far as the revenue side is concerned, Okay. [[Intruder Millian Brkić: Time of colleague.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22647	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22648	Dear Representative Pernar, when you collect bills in your pocket at one point, your pocket becomes tight and then you take them and put them in one box. It's from us between budget deficits and public debt. The big box is a public debt, and your pocket is a budget deficit for the current year. Therefore, the following should be said to the public, gentlemen, some here who are not economists do not blame them, are wrong when they say the public debt will decrease. No, gentlemen, it says exactly here the minister is here, that the public debt will increase by 6.8 billion kuna because so much is projected deficit. So they're gonna go into that big bag, and there's a big bag of $288 billion in there, plus 6.8. So that's already 295 billion kuna. So this economic policy, this economic policy and this isn't working out. But that's why I offered my colleagues and colleagues a solution specifically. Let's talk about the solution, let's not run. Do you then fear the Croatian People's Bank so much? Is she the owner of the state or state owner of the Croatian National Bank? Answer that question, you who are now playing the main word. Mr. Bull, I am speaking to you specifically. You're known as the People's Tribune and I know you when I was at the Most and I know you're a decent man and you'll support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22649	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The following came to the line from distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22650	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lovrinović, you devoted most of your exposure to a public debt and debt budget. According to projections, the debt will be around 6.4 billion, and the country's salary budget envisions 700 million kuna. But when we explain it, then 450 million kuna comes from European funds. About 150 million people have gone to work somewhere. De facto then the salary increase comes only 200 million kuna, which would be enough for these negotiations that are now under way to cover these backlogs for 2016 that the government has proposed. However, the government obviously hides the costs to be incurred in 2017. One of the costs is Christmas cards and regressions that weigh about 700 million kuna. And if an agreement is reached to increase the base as announced in the newspaper, it is Monday's signing of the agreement, i.e. the add-on to the TKU that is another 700 million kuna, and let's not forget that there are still parities behind it. If these parity unions don't give up, they're heavy somewhere between 4 billion and 6 billion to somewhere in 2018. So obviously this debt of 6.4 billion kuna is going to be at least greater by another billion and a half, which means that the deficit of the state budget is obviously going to be bigger and that's why we're probably putting the bills here in the right pocket. In the left is what you can see, in the right is what you can't see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22651	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22652	Dear Representative Mrsic, thank you for this question because I haven't been, I've had time to answer it. Gentlemen, my fellow citizens, the workers who are looking at this now your problem is resolved. The solution I offered 16.8 billion kuna solves your problem in a year. 1.4 billion kunas are not a problem, because the state is in debt, she signed it, and she has to do it. And not just that. Of this mass, which I have numbered 16.8 billion kunas aside from 1.4 billion kuna workers who, on the basis of this non-fulfilment contract, need to be resolved by other aid groups. One billion kuna could be transferred to the pensioners because they have miserable pensions. Education, health care and the military could be transferred by half a billion kuna. And all of a sudden, when we add that up, that's 3.9 billion, and then 6.1 billion more is just going to be left with this CNB thing that needs to be withdrawn. But it's not money to throw out the window. This remainder must be formed by a specific fund to be invested in projects that are exclusively marketable, which will encourage entrepreneurship and the development of this economy. These are moves for Croatia. Not moving from house to house, these are moves for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22653	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from prominent counterpart Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22654	Thank you, Vice President. So esteemed colleague Lovrinovic, you have shown your fear that forecasts of real GDP growth of 3.2% are highly ambitious compared to colleagues of Vrdoljak who again consider this budget unambitious. I'd just like to remind you, we recently had a mid-year report for 2016, and these figures precisely show that we had positive movements in the domestic economy. We had a real growth of 2.7% of gross domestic product growth. Industrial production registered an annual growth of 5.2%, a trade turnover of little 3.3%, a total number of tourists' overnight stays of 4.4%. For the first time since 2008, we have continued growth in construction activities. The number of registered unemployed is down 13.5% and so on. So I think it's really realistic to expect the gross domestic product to be even bigger in the next period, to record even greater growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22655	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev Martinchev, for the replica. Replication response, distinguished colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22656	Dear fellow MPs, as far as Mr. Vrdoljak is concerned, can't comment on his predictions. He's usually an engineer, I'm an economist, so maybe they're a little more optimistic about growth. And he usually appreciates it a little bit like that. Sometimes you need to be a little cocky to have a little stronger growth rates. As for your growth data, of course you're right. There are positive movements in certain sectors, and no one doubts that. However, here I am publicly if this growth is realized in the following year me and you and those who spoke I invite you to the next Christmas for lunch or dinner on my expense. Unfortunately, I don't think so, not because I'm bad and what I'm saying is a disasterer doesn't, but only taught me life, so to be realistic. In that sense, I'd say there's something else we can save. Here's why the government's incomes have been increased so drastically this year. Why? And the government's most incomes were increased from 54 million kuna to 147 million kuna. Which associations are involved and why this increase is as much as 274%, you see here behind that number is hiding something. But here's another question, the budget reduces the income of the Immunological Institute from 52 million in 2016 to 39 million in 20176. Does this mean that this government simply doesn't want to run an Immunological Institute but keeps it on camera? Because I've already spoken, the Immunological Institute has one problem, and that's his fortune. This company can make up to two billion kunas a year. His wealth is his biggest problem, he's a prey who wants to grab some.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22657	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague of the goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22658	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, a dear colleague of Lovirnović's. Most of what you said, I can agree. In almost every debate, you mention the CNB. I personally think it's a very important thing and that it should be discussed. So from this point on, I suggest you organise a thematic session with the theme of the CNB where you can get us all closer to getting to know each other or where we can get to know each other more about this topic. But what bothered me and why I applied for this replica is that in almost every address you make here from the pay phone, you read the representatives and MPs present. I don't think that's correct for your colleagues and colleagues and to call the citizens to see who they chose. We were elected by their representatives. You also personally lost your right to debate several times because you were not present here in the assembly. That's why I don't judge you because I believe you had other obligations and that's why you couldn't be here at the session. However, we have been gone for two days, we have received a draft budget that more than 700 pages and during today we and you all parliamentary deputies who wish can submit amendments to this draft budget. This is exactly this time most of our colleagues and colleagues in their clubs are writing these amendments. So please don't be hypocritical. I highly appreciate you, but don't count us anymore and invite the citizens to see who they chose. They know and they see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22659	I thank my esteemed colleague, Christmas, at least for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22660	Dear colleague Macar, of course I wasn't in that twice because I gave up the debate. However, not to be at a debate on the state budget is not the same as some topics that are not close to us. Well, okay. I accept I won't count, people have already seen, they see the picture in the rest, so let them count themselves, I just wanted to point this out as a problem. And really, it shows that we're simply generalizing the story. I'm not even a hypocrite anything that says anything more than those others like yesterday and Agent Pernar was talking about the Pharisees of hypocrites. But what I'm trying to point out is, this shows that if all people were to write amendments now, and I'm inviting you to go to the rooms together and you'd see how shocked you and I would be how many people write the amendments, and how many walk them out, but I'm not getting into it. It's the task of President God Petrova that I should have called first because now I have the right to say it because when I compare the past term where I was when this Parliament fell apart, academic Reiner was much more at these sessions, I can't say you know that. After all, let it be seen. Well, you still thought I was a hypocrite, but I have to notice this. So here's what this turns out to be, this isn't an important problem, it looks like the budget, he's going to go anyway, I don't doubt it, it's enough most of us, we could all stay home. But I personally care about the citizens hearing what we're talking about, so let them remember. Sooner or later, there will be some elections and let them sign off and see if they want to continue living in a country like this with this kind of policy or whether they want to change. That's all I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22661	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22662	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You asked your colleague Lovrinović if he was Croatian, at least Croatian, outside the debate. It is my position, and I am not changing it, and I was saying it in the last term when Oreshkovic was, and I am saying it now, that everyone has more influence on the CNB than we have as Parliament, which the people have chosen, and that I am clear, and so I will vote in the future and as before. But you mentioned that I also respect you, I'm sorry that you're not the governor, that you're asking me... that the minister to ask me would like you to be. But you in the opposition in this case are saying that you left the Most because of our retreat from politics. Yeah, there were 15 of us, and 12 of us were just... overkilling the former government. Well, you wanted to overstate Mr. Lovrinovic and you made a public statement with your former authority, but I greatly appreciate you and I respect you very much and everything you say I sign. But you speak now from the position of opposition and attack, let's say we're colleagues like you, Pernar, all of us are cynics, all of us are against something. Well, I'll always vote on my conscience. That's my attitude. And nothing you or I am no smaller cynic or no bigger hero than you in this case are in opposition, but the fact is that you're out of the MOST is that we're out of politics. Well, you know we fought the war together as much as we could. We were leaving the sessions here for the People's Bank, so everyone who was here can remember that. So at no point did we stand down, and we were only 13, the people chose us 13. Join and try to change things. On the side here in this case most of the opposition, I could speak and sign all that you're saying and, if you propose amendments for everything you've said, I'll vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22663	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I'd just like to remind you of Article 238. Rules of Procedures to stick to the subject, not to discuss some relics of the past. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your warning. My answer is precisely because the Croatian National Bank, I was talking about 10 billion kuna, is the heart of this problem. But I can't, by the way, if you let Agent Bull say something, you can't stop me. At least we need to be parliamentary. Representative Bulj, of course you can see that I called you and called you because I am convinced that you are the only one at the Most who would sign that. For the rest of us, I'm sure they'd either not or they'd double. So, we know that. I have no intention of explaining why I came out of MOST, etc., but the fact is that these things haven't been dealt with properly from economic problems, economic ideas, the essence, it's abandoned, so if you didn't raise your voice today as a bridge against 12 billion kuna interest rates, then you can't convince me that I should have stayed with you to fight this way. So don't say anything, right? So I went out with my cheek. Believe me, many people expected me to be here no more, but I thank the citizens of the 2nd Election Unit for choosing me again, and I must take this opportunity, and I will fight in your interest. And as for the budget itself, this is a struggle for the budget. Behind every million, each figure has interests. We need to get some interests out of the budget. Part of it opens the way to clienteleism, corruption, unnecessary spending. That's what we're talking about today. And the citizens will judge who in which way, in which the party has continued to fight for the right values, whether it reflects the attitudes of the citizens or bows down; to me they've said this before, has gone, calcifies there and there, they've all been wronged, you see where I am today. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22665	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDS Representatives' Club, HSLS, the HDSSB will be shared by Mr Branko Hrg and Josip Salapic. Here you go, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22666	Vice President, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Whenever a budget is made in principle in its preparation everyone would like to be in it, everyone would like to have their own item, their position, everyone would like some programs to be realized for anyone there. Of course, there is no room for all because if this were to work out then the budget would never be enough and never be enough and never satisfied with it even those who do it and prepare it, and of course those who need to criticize it. On behalf of the HDS Club, HSLSL and HDSSB, I wish this budget to be achieved as much as possible because this draft budget for us is within normal conditions, is for conditions of normal functioning of states, which means that its achievement would show that the situation in Croatia could be said to be fully stabilised. I conclude that the government estimates that next year there will be a year of further stabilisation of the Republic of Croatia and that Croatia needs a positive atmosphere because only such an atmosphere can actually expect progress because if there is no positive atmosphere, if it is pessimistic, then no ambition can be expected. And in order to create such an atmosphere, it takes an ambitious government, the government that has succeeded in a month and a half since it was appointed to prepare a whole series of laws, law packages, very important laws and propose budgets for the next year and projections for 2018 and 2019. A few words about what has been said here, and these are, of course, the needs of local self-government, the ratio of the state budget to the budgets of the local self-government units. This draft budget in that part actually shows how necessary it is to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government. We today, if you analyse the allocation of funds to help local self-government units, you can easily see a series of illogicalities that are actually going to harm some units of local self-government, and that is precisely those units that have used all the legal opportunities to fill their budgets, and for that reason, when they did so, they could no longer be found in that cut of local self-government units that are being assisted from the state budget. I'm talking about units of local self-government that have introduced a cut. And now because of that cut, they have income per capita, so to speak, of course bigger, and they automatically fell out of this part. And then you have on this cut to help the mass of local self-government units that didn't do it. They either have a zero or they have two, three, five, six percent, and they're boasting they don't have a cut, and they're getting funding neatly from the state budget. So if we look at this budget from this point of view, and we're talking about next year's local elections, and we often hear criticism that this is a pre-election budget, then I'm going to say that it's not a pre-election character at all, but it's even more the other way around. The other way around. Because if the pre-election character was then it would be quite different and not only would certain units of local self-government be covered by it but many other units of local self-government. Or they wouldn't be any. So in this part, I think that the government and the finance ministry's decision is very good to really see the situation in local self-government, that as soon as announced in the first half of next year a new Law on the financing of local self-government with quite other elements of assessing the development of local self-government. Here I'm going to say that there are units of local self-government, especially cities that have introduced taxes that are both developing and working and have entered the help category. They can only be congratulated and wished to get out of this process as soon as possible from the state budget because this means that they have succeeded, that they have evolved, that they have evolved to the point where they no longer need help. That should be the goal. Of course, the real state of normalisation will happen in that part of the moment when both stronger and greater fiscal decentralisation is made and when these tax income ratios will be distributed to a large part in local self-government, which again changes nothing in the overall budget of the Republic of Croatia in view of the consolidated budget and where the practical and budget of the units of local self-government enters. A few words more to say what I was happy about in the draft of this budget, I see that, and that is very important for local self-government, I see that for the fire department and for the Croatian Fire Department, it means for training volunteer firefighters prepared and envisaged a much larger item than it was before, that is, this year and also a year before and in 2015 it was 500 million, and for this year it was foreseen a billion and a half, a million and 500 thousand kuna, I said wrongly, I apologize. A few words about the agricultural budget, it is always very important and important and even today there has been relatively little speech here, probably for well-known reasons. The budget-proposing party did not stress it so much and the party criticising it cannot stress it because they would jump into their own stomachs. So after the really determined moves taken by Minister Tolusic and in the short time of his mandate made a series of good things, he deserves, of course, every commendation but deserves a commendation for the budget for this year and next because the budget is growing significantly. And what's important, especially in rural development measures, so for 2015, that's '14. It was 616 million 182 thousands a year and today it's 2 billion 275 and more, of course, those few numbers in the back. I believe it's a really good programme and a good budget and it's only for those who need to do it to do it, and especially here, I mean a paying agency in agriculture that is basically the executive holder of this work, and it's very important how much it will do it. He'll continue his colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22667	Thank you. Here's your colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll pick up where my colleague Hrg left off. I also support coming from Slavonia this large part of the funds in the agricultural portfolio, especially most of the money from direct payments from EU funds. We expect from Slavonia a lot of this budget although all colleagues and colleagues should be what is said to be real, optimism always needs, without optimism we cannot build a future. But these are, this is the budget, given that the government is the only month and a half of days we could get for next year. We had two choices, one regular, one extraordinary, and it wasn't expected that now all the problems of the Republic of Croatia, which the economies, which agriculture with us in Slavonia, will be solved by demographics, by health care, by state finances and economies overnight. What is important to say and that is that this is a lot of budgets that I personally participated in, it is important that for now, and I hope that this will remain stable in the future of state finances and that in Croatia it is showing growth, it is minimal but given the circumstances of the political elections that we have had, so they are regular shocks, it takes some time to agree on the government, we have seen the painful negotiations on the consent of the parliamentary majority, there are many concessions, there are many agreements. I believe that the next budget for 2018 will be much clearer and more concrete in the vision of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic's government. It would be unfair of us to say now that everything here that is proposed is not good and that any positive measure is bad just because it comes from the ruling majority. I am a witness and other budgets from the former governments, I would not want to personally insult anyone but certainly the one who has entered state finances if he really wants to fulfill what the stability of the Republic of Croatia is said then, apart from this public sector, more attention needs to be paid to the real sector which is much more difficult and makes it much more difficult for people to hire and pay salaries. I am particularly saying that my expectations of the HDSSB in Slavonia, that the announced project Slavonia of 2.5 billion euros investment in our neighborhood will revive what we want most, and this is rural Slavonian agriculture, economy and new jobs. Now not to be all pathetic and sad and sad about this speaker is the fact that bad things happen to us in Slavonia, we expect this government to change that. Why should our country, we are witnessing the increase in partial resources in the ministry of science and education, our country pays for human education and we unfortunately export those same people from our parts to foreign countries, EU countries, what we paid for, our country that education and they run because they can't get a job in their country. That's the government's job. The budget are financial figures but should be seen from a political aspect because each government will show its ability in its portfolio how it is dynamically planned. I say and repeat, we can't expect miracles in a month and a half, but we can expect the government's honest intentions to change something. Thank God they're stable finances, we expect a lot of changes in tax reform, but we also expect each ministry to show special responsibility. I am sure that Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem and Podravina can feed not only the entire Republic of Croatia but also the wider EU countries with their advantages of soil and the area in which we live. That is why particular attention is given to the Ministry of Agriculture with Mr Tolusic, the Ministry of Regional Development at Minister Žalac, as well as to the Ministry of Tourism's portfolio. It's not just tourism that's been reviving in Dalmatia and Primorje, thank God we have it, but continental tourism in Slavonia has recently been reviving but these are still inexhaustible sources that can help fill the state budget and also create new jobs. The HDSSB or the HDS, HSLS and HDSB provide full support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this budget. We expect much more when it comes to the naive project of Slavonia in the next stages in the dynamics of the budget ahead of us and what really is our concern for all of us to realize once and for all that every government that has taken over power in Croatia has had a good intention of helping its citizens. None of them that came and those exes and this one right now have that bad intention. The voters are the ones that the coworkers and colleagues at the end of the election say we're satisfied, we're not satisfied. There are a lot of problems in local communities, and one day we're going to have to come up with a turn to discuss whether we need that kind of apparatus that chokes the state budget and reduces the possibility and reduces the possibility of new jobs. It's our political work where we should seek consensus. There are a lot of problems in the health ministry's portfolio, nor can Minister Kujundzic handle it himself. We have had a long-standing problem in that portfolio and it would be good to try once and for all to find a national consensus when it comes to these key topics. Moving out of youth is not only a problem for the ruling, it is a problem and opposition. The inability of new jobs is not only a problem for HDZ and partners, but a problem and opposition right now. What kind of state is it if a city like my Osijek wants to co-finance our young people who went to Ireland so they can go back to their families for Christmas in Croatia. Well, isn't that sad? I think our country should fund their tickets to return to their country forever. It is true that we have fought for the EU's common market but it is also true that we must not allow, first of all, the departure of our young people to be this high unemployment in our area and that we import food that is sold as garbage and that our Slavonic farmer who is valuable and fair and healthy food products cannot place it on the market of the Republic of Croatia in that ratio to being competitive with the price. I repeat, this is an absolutely good intention towards the new Croatian government, and I believe that we will fight for the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and this budget, in the wake of that last year, announces the dynamics of that growth. There are serious tasks ahead of us other than tax reform, the possibility of further discussions on the laws concerning agriculture resorts is the Law on Agricultural Family Economics because we will try to revive this dead end of our country and our country to be not only competitive in tourism but also in its healthy food, and I hope that the time will come when our youth educated will use its knowledge for the benefit of our country, and that sometimes from those classical political debates that started today morning will move a little further away and see what is the best future for all of us sitting here and for our children, which is stable Croatia, stable and sound state finances and then after the election some citizens decide who better led the country. In the current two cycles, they chose HDZ with partners and I believe that trust will also justify the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22669	I thank my esteemed colleague Salapic for this debate. He had a few replicas. The line for the line came from a respected colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22670	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrg, here's 4.5 hours if we exclude the time of the promoter who exhibited the budget here we've been listening to macroeconomics, I'm not that and other people. For the first time through you, we have heard people who have been struggling for ten years, even though in a small amount with local budgets. And I've noticed the difference between macroeconists and those who aren't in my position and your position see a glass half empty and we see it half full. That's an important difference because right at the beginning of your presentation you said an ambitious budget. You know, and at the local level when you do the budget you can put it 10% less than you hand it over to the city council and for a year you've been calm, it'll be executed whether anyone was in service or not that budget will be implemented. You'll have an excuse in front of the citizens, and we haven't, and we haven't. That's why, through your exposure, I see here for the first time today a half glass, optimistically speaking, and therefore commendation to both the minister and the entire government for this budget. And the government could bring a budget of about 110 billion kuna and be calm and service not to do anything and it will be done and at the end of the year say here we have all done as we planned and in the meantime a month to fight it and no citizens, and we have no citizens. So, the budget of the kind that is the engine of work and development of all services and of all ministries, of all segments based on the budget of the Republic of Croatia and that is what is very important and very important for this budget to say. I'm saying you know that for ten years, and I'm going to say this to end all successful mayors always do an ambitious budget and struggle with their services to prove over a year that this budget is really valid even if it wasn't fully met by 1% or 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22671	I thank my esteemed colleague Boban for his replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22672	Dear Boban, we always understand each other as well as, of course, the other local leaders he has, regardless of which side they are opposition or positional. This is the first budget of this government, this is the budget with which the government enters the mandate. And it would be really funny now to think in general that the government wants to blow up the budget in the first year and practically degrade itself already at its so-called annual accounting debate. So the logic of things imposes on those who understand themselves in this political document that we bring in every year everywhere that if something goes that way then it's done at that time when it's eventually going into elections, and then it's being prepared for the budget because in principle it doesn't know how it's going to end, so what it's going to be is going to be, so we're going to do rebalancing. So this is the first budget alive. I really welcome ambition. I talked to the head of the management departments, I talked to my supervisor who's a good financier, a lot of European funds projects have been implemented. He just told me this: this is a great budget for a normal state, for a normal time. And he has, there's this danger that we're not going to be able to re-do that whole series of programmes and withdraw money from the European Union, but it's up to us now, it's now on all these services, state bodies, local bodies, changing the law that we were saying the other day could be done. I'm convinced it's okay and the government that sends the pessimistic message is not a good government. It's like having a coach who says to the team in the locker room, "Go play outside now, we'll definitely lose." That's not a good message. A positive and ambitious message must be sent to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22673	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hrg, for your reply. The next call came from prominent counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22674	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Hrg, you were talking about units of local self-government that have a cut, which, through that tributary or various other aids, make and realize different projects, and thus praise them. I would support all such units of local self-government and their leaders who boast about the projects they have implemented or in a way that have submitted to the competition and through the state budget have realised the project either by their own resources or by means of the European Union. However, I cannot support those who have also called this morning for this budget and the prime minister and this government because no projects have been included, I would say painted alongside sports halls, with school facilities, laid the cornerstones and did everything and now expect the state budget's assistance because it was realised by a public-private partnership, and then when they should have not even received the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I would point out exactly their governments. So, then when this agreement was to be given then they set out into these projects, and now they expect help from this government. This would be very much done by all of us and I believe that all of those mayors and mayors who would be happy to realize projects and have the same needs for schools and kindergartens and sports halls, but since we couldn't get consent we didn't even go to such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22675	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, on the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22676	Thank you very much, colleagues, on a double basis, both as mayors and as MPs. Absolutely. So we have most of the problems with the premises, both with the school spaces and sports halls and with some other facilities. And we definitely all want to build it, and we're all reporting for all the competitions that are available to us. If we go through them we build-work, if we don't pass my God, we're looking for other ways. What you were just talking about, what you were talking about yesterday on the Committee on Local Self-Government and here today, and it's probably going to be more during the day, is something that can't happen. First of all, this model of public-private partnership is a model that should be well examined and examined for what was actually happening and how much damage was done. And the other thing is that really those who entered that program, signed those contracts, created commitments without having prior consent or reported to some contest that the ministry or state had called, I really don't see why someone should pay for it now. It's the responsibility of the people who did it. And we weren't all in an equal position. So it is a kind of discrimination of others in Croatia. I don't mind, I'm in favour of building every school, to find ways, but it's not right if we say the Koprivnica-Krysing County is mentioned in that section. But what in it? Just high school in the town of Koprivnica. Not in Djurjevac. Not in the Crosses. No school does. So why weren't we in it? We did it the other way. Whoever did this has to answer for it, let them handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22677	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hrg, for your reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, I read that you are alluding to the period of functioning of this government two months incomplete and that you are giving them a chance, I agree. I hope that's not just because you've changed your seat and then some kind of momentum. In fact, you pointed out the problem at local level and I see a lot of talk about it, but I also believe that you are familiar with it, so these JPP projects were also implemented in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008. Long before there was even a Law on JPP, a colleague of Hrg, you should know the same thing, etc. In fact, let's not discuss some issues, not inform ourselves before. Second, why others didn't stand a chance. Well, I guess if you had a mayor from the HNS in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, the same project would have been. We'd have Križevci and everywhere else and sports-school halls. And let's not abuse the pay phone, speak lies. No one was forced by the head of local self-government without the agreement of city and municipal councils, the project could not be realised, could not be realised. 50 percent. Why 50 percent of the state? Just because the state owns it. Doesn't make sense that if you own something you're participating in payment. Local self-government units pay 10%, County 40, State 50. If, as we can see, this won't happen, the units of local self-government will be reduced to 20 percent. This is the problem that counterpart Salapic was saying, so local self-government units will not be adequately compensated for tax reforms and another additional burden. So, fellow Salapic, I agree with the government of time. However, this budget does not read the direction. Linear increase on all items, so don't wave. Do we know where we're going? I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22679	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his replica. Replica response, dear colleague Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22680	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, you answered part of me, and you've replicated part with your colleague Hrga, so as a lawyer, I didn't want to ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't matter. We split it up a little bit. Yeah, but good. I sat there so I wouldn't sit behind your back. Maybe it's better this way, so we're evener, so yeah. You have experience in the work of local administration and I know it, I've been following your discussions for a long time. I said it justifiably that there was too little time since you knew it too. Because the two elections in the year and a half, government change, key portfolios, a completely different policy direction compared to tax policy, economic policy, and the state of the country which is slightly better compared to 2015 and 2016. Not to mention, then, that poor state that was in 2014. I believe, or I am sure that the new government is not and will not go to harm the unit of local self-government and that this budget was not ambitiously inflated by local elections. It takes this kind of direction at the beginning to plant the foundations for him to be quality, so we can track him. Whether it'll be successful until the end or we'll have to have rebalancing that we'll see in the walk. I think it's fair to the Government, which has been largely changed, and this budget says so, and the laws we've passed over the past few days should be given an opportunity in this kind of time when the government has just been conceived and the outlines of this future policy are seen. I said in my speech that only in 2017 will we see the real direction of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, and we will see what will happen to units, municipalities, cities, counties. I say we sit down at last, no offense to any of the mayors, the mayor and the mayor. Countys have their own historical tradition, but there are a lot of municipalities and cities where we have to question whether it can work without bad intentions. I think the time will come in a year, two to sit down, seriously think about it. We'll have a different state of affairs in government finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22681	I thank my colleague Salapic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22682	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. When discussing the adoption of the State budget for 2016, I have just appealed from this speaker to the need to finance basic development projects in Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County and to the necessity of cooperation between the state and local self-government in the realisation of European projects, as well as in the realisation of capital facilities in education, health, road infrastructure, etc. I'm glad the government heard our appeal, and in Istria they won't stop the start-up projects. Because Istria participates in filling the state budget in significant percentages of what the state should do in return is to return some of those funds that they have just made. In this case, it is about the budgets complementing projects that we have provided for ourselves from local budgets and European funds. I hope that the IDS proposals sent from this speaker will be respected in the future, and that the government will show concern for both Istria and its citizens. I'll remind Istria is certainly a locomotive that drags the Croatian economy forward. We are one of the most developed regions in Croatia. We have a double unemployment rate compared to the Croatian average, a stable business environment and the highest share of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs throughout Croatia, and Istrian tourism makes up 1/3 of all Croatian tourism. In other words, things work in Istria, and we expect the state to support us rather than slow down and stop the development of Istria. Now I'd like to say a few words about this budget that I really find unrealistically optimistic. What I see as a fundamental problem is the problem is that there is no way out of this one framework that we have drawn, or how to increase the budget, how to expand the base, how to reduce the tax press, how to enable investment and create new jobs. I believe that over the past 25 years in Istria, we have shown how this can be done. I would like the experience of good practice to take over the national framework. The economic growth projection of 3.2% that is embedded in this budget, and I will say that I hold that one of the fundamental reasons why we can talk about GDP growth is, above all, a certain political and legal stability by entering Croatia into the EU and a significant investment, an increase in income in tourism. Therefore, this projection of economic growth, which includes the effects of tax reform, I believe that it does not take into account the risks that tax laws adopt, laws that have already been adopted. The risks I am talking about are the reduction of profits in the tourism sector, which is one of the strongest generators of economic growth and accounts for 18% of gross domestic product. Making tax reform, which you say will contribute to economic growth, will certainly affect the reduction of revenues in the most prosperous branch of the Croatian economy, which is exactly tourism. The government has adopted a budget and projected a 3.2% growth without taking into account these possible negative effects of VAT increases in catering and the losses it will cause. Here I am not just talking about direct losses which, therefore, will be achieved in catering, i.e. in tourism, I am already talking about the whole sector and the positive effect of Croatia's entry into the EU, where I have previously mentioned an increase in legal security or political stability, I believe that these reforms violate the investment climate. I also believe that you did not take into account how tax reform and VAT increase will affect our food producers and farmers who could directly place their products in Croatia through hospitality and tourism or indirect exports. I believe that all this will affect a reduced charge of the state budget that is not included in the draft budget for 2017. So we think the budget just isn't real. You too, Mr. Minister, have taken into account my March appeal to the necessity of establishing partner relations between the state and local levels in implementing development projects. However, what I can read from this budget, I see that you have completely ignored a much more important topic, which is decentralisation. Yes, we can hear from the introduction, we can hear from the presentation of fellow representatives who come from local communities that decentralisation is necessary. However, we also see in this draft budget that it does not participate in substance. I must point out one exception and commendation indeed by reading this morning when I came to Zagreb as Minister Tolusic, the Minister of Agriculture announced that the agricultural land would once again descend to the level of cities and municipalities, I believe that it is for every praise because we have seen that so far the Agency was simply a narrow throat. I wish there were more examples like that. And in particular, I have to look at the use of European funds where we see again that the state level is simply a narrow throat and we can want, we can predict, we can plan, but I am convinced that this segment will not go down to the regional or local level that the effects of withdrawing funds from European funds will not be to the extent that we would all want together. As I was reading the draft budget, I was hoping to find at least some clue that would be expected and announced decentralisation or public administration reform, at least some segment that man could really catch up to. Especially since in the pre-election campaign, almost all political options have just been sworn in decentralisation. I have said European funds, a good example of Poland that has really brought this down to its dukeries, therefore, to the regional level and which have been able to make significant use of and take advantage of what the European Union funds are offering. In fact, your first major measure of tax reform, in terms of income tax, you immediately took away 2 billion kunas from local self-government units, and that is where our perception of politics is fundamentally different. On the one hand, the centralist who takes the local community and announces that they will compensate. So, I'm taking it from you to get it back. I don't see the point in why local communities are being reduced so much to compensate them afterwards. However, as with some other examples of 2018, 2019, 2020, we will see to what extent these funds will be further reduced. The best example is in 2008 to take over the issue of local works on construction where the state has taken over the obligation to finance these employees. After a few years, that obligation simply fell short. So we're already pre-centralised, and in this way you've anticipated compensatory measures at an insufficient amount of 1.3 billion kuna. I say one more time I don't understand why to take it locally, and then talk about how it's coming back to them. I'm holding the opposite right now. Locals create, and the central cashier basically spends. And the other thing that is unacceptable to me is that it is staticly viewed as a budget where certain funds will be taken into account from the month 2016 as a starting point. Why does this detimise those who want to grow, who want to hire, who want to earn more and thus be more successful? I believe that all investments planned to be made in the next period should be taken into account and that a dynamic approach should go to how to compensate for the funds that have been reduced. Why am I pointing that out here? Because I fear that, as in many cases so far, Istra will be retired, that citizens will be punished because they are worthy, because they are industrious and because they are fulfilling their obligations. Because you know for a fact that in Istria tax ejaculation is far the lowest in Croatia. That Istra will again receive crumbs from the state budget, while paying at the same time annually, by the basis of this tax reform I can now and thus safely say a billion kunas more than it pays them back. And in order to get to that number, not once did the Ministry of Finance figure it out under quotes. We were forced to simply order a study by the Institute of Public Finance to prove it. If the state hadn't been so centralised, and if all the money hadn't gone to the state register, we could have realised the most demanding projects ourselves, and we shouldn't be looking through the amendments for additional funds for some kind of project, but could provide it locally. I remind you that as many as 90% of our citizens' needs are achieved at the local level. On the other hand, according to the existing allocation of budgets, the central government collects and spends more than 90% of the budget annually and I believe that such allocation is simply long-term neither sustainable nor stimulating, and is particularly not just. I don't think we should invent hot water, so we can look up to developed European countries that are decentralised. I believe that the central state itself should use this infrastructure that local and regional self-government offers, give more work, but also powers to local communities, and precisely its state level, the level of ministries to use as one control mechanism to ensure that this is done both in accordance with the law and in accordance with the positive regulations. What is particularly worrying is that in times where we have a deficit in the state budget where we have to make up for new debts on the one hand, we still have really unactivated state property, whether about tourism land, whether about agricultural land or, for example, agricultural land. some former military zones. I believe it would be where and where it weighs the road but the only right path to put it into operation, enable new investments, new jobs, then certainly there would be a larger base for taxation, more budgets both at the state and at the local level. What we'd also like, we'd like to finally have one policy of clean bills, to know who's contributing, to know who's spending, who's in the surplus, and who's in the deficit when we're talking about the Republic, because I think it's really time for the funds to be deployed more justly, that those who are pulling forward who can draw even stronger to stimulate them, not to penalize them. That's why our club is about to make amendments to this draft budget, I hope the minister will have an understanding for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22683	Thank you for the debate. We have several replicas on your exhibit. First came from counterpart Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22684	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Miletic, if I had a habit of writing speeches, it would be as if you were reading my speech. In fact, I can agree with everything, but I'd like to supplement you. When you talk about stability by entering the EU, what is important for the functioning of the government is both internal stability and political stability within the coalition, which has been seen to be a certain amount of corruption and stability already in the initiation of tax reform. Furthermore, when you look at the debates in the House, you see that there are dissonant tones of acceptance, not accepting certain laws. So that's one of the elements that doesn't give me the confidence that this budget that let's say bigger, by the logic of things should accept it to be realized. In general, it is as if the position of all governments is some less, some more, when they are not in the position of the government then advocate and say that local and regional self-government is that the main drivers of local development as soon as they reach Mark's square as they never said that they simply forget it. I don't think that's the end time unfortunately from this budget we can see this, but we expect in the coming years to finally start with some direction in which we plan to go and on decentralisation, as far as local, regional self-government is concerned, because it is a fact, and this has proved particularly in the period there since 2005 that local and regional self-government is the main drivers of development of the Republic of Croatia. What I also don't see from this budget, you can't see from either income or expenditure side of state property management. We have established a ministry, we have an existing regulation, we have a State Property Management Strategy, we do not see any revenue from the budget for the activated state assets. For that reason I'm saying I can't agree, we're not going to support this budget either, we're going to give some amendments even though I'm not sure they're going to accept it. But I would also like to say, the minister hears it, and the prime minister will finally start some structural reforms that will be visible in the budgets of the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22685	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22686	For the past 25 years, we have witnessed this one centralist approach. There was a period of war, and logically, the center must be really strong then. But after so many years, we see that this model simply does not produce results. I believe it would be much fairer to lower the powers, lower the resources created locally and thus give the mayors and mayors and mayors much, much greater responsibility to be questioned with the right of citizens what you have done. I find it unacceptable and difficult to understand that we are going to increase certain taxes on the one hand, while on the other hand we do have untapped assets. Here is the end of Pula, Pula was once a really strong military city, for several years the former military airport has been absolutely empty. So there's not a single soldier, there's some infrastructure, there's a number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are interested in putting their turns in these former military halls, hire some people, so they'd all benefit from the tea. First of all, those people who would work but would be charged both taxes and contributions. And it's staring blank now. Why is that empty? Because the Department of Defense doesn't want to leave the former DUDI to the current Ministry of Property, that former military airport without any compensation, and we're going on forever. So you have one absurd where citizens question you, and you entrepreneurs why don't you put it into operation and let 50, 100 people get a job, and that's better than this zero that's out there right now, or that property is staring empty. And when managed by local or regional self-government, we have a series of examples of good practice where we see how property is put into operation very quickly and thus enables both investment and new jobs. That's what I'm talking about because I'm assuming that some clerk here in some skyscraper in Zagreb like a former Pula military airport, so thousands and thousands of other state particles don't mean much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22687	Thank you very much. Next replica Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22688	Thank you very much. Mr Miletic, I listened carefully to your speech and the backbone of your speech was of course as it is whenever IDS speaks decentralisation local and regional self-government. I wonder all the time what a translation of the word self-government would be. In my humble knowledge, the translation of the word self-government is autonomy. The whole world is talking about autonomy. The whole world has autonomy, Spain, Italy, other countries that, as I would say, went a little further in terms of, as you say, decentralisation and self-government, which is a second word, a synonym of autonomy and who are not afraid that certain parts of the state actually have the ability to autodeterminate and fiscal, and normative and financial. Why, Mr. Miletic, do we avoid that word all the time?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22689	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22690	So I guess for a certain period, that word was misrepresented or wrongly wanted to prove itself. So what I would like in a near future in our country is that we can talk about how our Croatian regions can be as competitive as we have an example in some other country. Well, it's not even a tax on extra value anywhere, so VAT is equal. Why don't we talk about which city will be able to offer better operating conditions to its owners, but also through those taxes that aren't local. Why can't we talk about how our regions can pass certain regional laws that will stimulate exactly the economy. Because I believe that those who are successful should be further encouraged. If we're going to try to translate that into a business environment, then every employee who contributes and works more should be further stimulated and additionally rewarded, not retired because of what he does more, which produces more. I wish it were such an example in our country, however, unfortunately we can testify that we have a policy of exploitation, that those who want to enter stronger and faster should be stopped to be reached by those less developed. Yes, we should be solid, we've always been solid, we should help others, especially the weaker ones, but not at the expense of the entire economy, because I think that just by encouraging those who are pulling faster and better, everyone in this country will be even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22691	Thank you very much. We have the next line of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22692	Some things you've made excellent detection in your presentation. Somewhere I might give you a little bit if you let and complement where I also see certain problems, so first of all, in the unrealistic planning of GDP growth, which, according to projections, should actually be about a billion, a billion and a half kuna less income, and then most likely, with what is especially the county of the left center, the left liberal centre, so Istria, Zagorska, Varazdinska, Međimurska should be afraid. That's what they're called. measures of compensation from the state budget that are about to hit the mentioned counties, so yours, and Zagorska, and Međimurska, and Varazdinska for reasons because only now when one significant income in the county and city budgets of new employment began to take place, so from income tax, what is actually going on? These good counties are dimming because they simply freeze off funds at last year's level, and we all expect increased employment, so we expect bigger revenues in county, city, municipal budgets, and they'll actually have what, we'll have a negative, we'll have a freeze. And what happens when what I predict happens is that because of the external crisis and the internal unrealistic budget planning will be less revenue than expected. So, not those five and a half billion kunas, and the largest part that we're expected to say exactly from increased personal consumption, so in GDP so-called. Personal consumption or C, what's going to happen? First, there will be a strike against successful counties, successful cities from these regions from which we come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22693	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22694	Yes, what our policy advocates is that the funds made at local level are largely left to them to decide how to spend them. This centralist approach, perhaps my colleague will deny me, but ultimately they are always driven by the fact that somehow, by the political key of the one who is in power in the state and the one who manages a particular city, municipality or region, these funds are thus allocated. So I'm saying why take it from the local community to the central cashier's office so that under the quotes of the state, it would be generously returned to you. Well, those funds are at local level anyway and they're creating. And another thing that I have shown my concern, especially in the segment of expected increased VAT revenues in tourism, especially in catering, so I fear that this will have a significant impact on the quality of services. When I say the quality of services here, I also think of the number of employees who have increased in catering over 10,000 new jobs over the past three years, and the quality of services other than the groceries themselves, and I have mentioned our agricultural producers who, through tourism, have the possibility of direct exports, so besides that part of the quality, will be reduced safely and part of the employees or I fear that part of the catererer will resort to the old custom, which is that it will not show all the income and that this tax base that was today at 13% of VAT will not be equal to the base when there is a tax of 25%. Because one part of the facilities, those little family neighborhoods, I'm not going to say big, hardly be able to withstand such a huge tax burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22695	Thank you very much for your presentations. We have another replica. Marco Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22696	Here's fellow Miletic, through his debate, you've again presented a consistent opinion that you have, that is, a position as a party... Centralisation in Croatia and here's what I congratulate you on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will actually look back in my replica at the part that you mentioned very briefly and concerns the eu funds and only the possibility of absorbing EU funds from local units. Yes, it is now significantly reduced, it is significantly reduced because many local units have invested a large part of their resources in project documentation and the project documentation still stands well. Here I will mention the example of measure 7.4, so the basic service and restoration of the village in rural areas which has already been, a year has been announced by the Ministry of Agriculture, and... There's not a competition open yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this refers to projects related to kindergartens, cultural centres, sports grounds, so something that I think is crucial to keeping people alive in these rural areas at all because they are along with communal infrastructure and, of course, the most important thing that a young family will take into account is that they are designing their lives there. So we are still waiting for this, the documents are still standing and the local self-government unfortunately reduces funds under the terms of economic growth that we all expect in 2017 when the state budget grows, when the budgets of almost all ministries grow, local self-government loses 800 million kuna through tax reform and through this budget. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22697	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22698	A colleague for the reasons that we all know together what our basic duties are at local level that first of all we must ensure the functioning of our cities and municipalities, provide the children with a place in preschool institutions, so kindergartens, ensure the functioning of basic, secondary education, ensure the functioning of our cultural institutions, sports, also ensure the social programme. And these are our duties and our priorities and certainly by reducing the original income, income tax is the original income of units of local self-government that then remains less resources for the use of therefore European funds because as tempting as they look and sound, you must always provide one of your own components, so your share so that you can realise some project. And if you don't have that fiscal capacity, so absorbent to secure your own component, then the question is, normally, how do you even realize and expect such a significant increase in the use of EU funds? On the other hand, a number of incentives that have just gone towards the economy, here I'm going to say an example of my city from which I come that has according to fina's data the largest number of entrepreneurs per capita. So the total resources that we achieved on the basis of the company's tax were always paid back to entrepreneurs. But what entrepreneurs? Those who are just beginning, who are the hardest to start ups because they need help. And I believe that the amount of taxes that paid whether certain banks or some major entities on an annual scale of 1000 or 2000 kuna are not so large that they will be saved or not to save their business. But I can assure you that once you provide a beginner with a free space in the incubator, when you enable him to obtain information equipment and when you allow them cheaper lending opportunities to mean a lot to him at that most vulnerable stage, and unfortunately it is abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22699	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate on behalf of the club. Mr Branimir Bunjac is the representative of the Living Wall and SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22700	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, dear guests. If I wanted to be maligned and petty right now, I would immediately begin the debate in a way why did the government raise funds for the Parliament? Why do the government's funds increase as much as 50%? Why are the funds for the Constitutional Court increasing? Why is the Ministry of Economy doubling the funds for the fleet? Why are the funding for student scholarships being reduced? Why has organic agricultural production been abolished? Why isn't there any means to restructure the Immunological Institute? I could talk like that, but this time, there's something more important to point out. And this is how it seems that, for the first time in perhaps 7, 8 years, the government decided to break the crazy savings policy that this Croatian society has but not only tormented it to the limits possible. So one policy that has never done any good for the economy in history but only deepened the crisis and spread poverty. On the other hand, the increase in funding is consistent with what the EU is asking for, aside from the fact that these increased funds are in the role of the election campaign. We see that the salaries of teachers and civil servants will accidentally increase in April, just in April there is money and there is no money in March but right here in April and the elections in early May. Let's just say, the main thing is that the savings have been cut off. And he's got our finance minister's money, so here's the deal. Not only for unions, it has Christmases, it has for the military, it has to subsidize the war credit, it has to increase the minimumer, it has to pay for birth benefits, it has to pay for firemen, it has to do with education, even for these speakers that we mentioned so many times, it even increased 1,000% amazingly. It's for the environment, which is usually the strategic priority of the Republic of Croatia 171%. There will be an indexation of pensions of 600 million kuna, it will be for preferential pensions, it will even be for HVO pensions. Now that's a little bit of a dispute, because for them it's going to be 2 billion and for our pensioners 600 million, for them it's going to be 3 times more than for all Croatian pensioners, but it doesn't matter, mainly that it does. There's only one thing that matters in all of this where did you get the money? Where are you gonna take that money? All great, you could have ordered a non-precise fleet, you could've ordered a Space Shuttle in the budget, but where are you going to take the money? Here's what our Minister Maric and the government are telling us where they're going to take the money, so it's going to increase GDP 3.2% even though we know very well that it won't because this growth that we've had this year is 2.8, 2.9% is artificial growth. It is not based on the creation of new jobs, not on any investments, but on deflator movements, a favourable economic environment and a decline in energy prices, primarily oil and gas imports. Furthermore, the budget is thin because it is obvious from all indicators that soon there is a collection of all the directors that will additionally burden citizens and thus consumption. Furthermore, the budget provides for 11 billion kuna from the Structural Funds and this year we only withdrew 5. On what basis are we now suddenly changing and increasing capacity to withdraw 11 billion? Why didn't we pull 11 this year when we were already able to do that? We had a plan seven and we pulled five. Now we have a plan 11 and I don't know if we pull eight, who's going to make it up? So, what kind of rebalancing are we going to have, who are we going to take? And the scariest thing is that this government is going to be in charge of 35 billion kunas. Well, I think someone who has a primary school knows that's the way to hell. Are you aware of all of you sitting here who have children or think you have what it means for your descendants to be in charge like this? We put a ball around our own children's legs and a concrete block around our necks. 25 billion government bonds, so who are you gonna sell it to when our bonds are garbage? 8 billion kuna in debt to banks and at what interest? Someone mentioned a credit rating, so what kind of credit rating do we have? You'll be selling for 1 billion and a half state property, what are you going to sell me, please tell me I'm interested? I don't know what I'm thinking, you're going to drill the Adriatic, I don't know Velebit, Slavonia all over? Where did you get that money? I don't understand that. Yesterday, you're removing immunity from Agent Pernar for damages of 30 kuna and you're doing damages of 35 billion kuna. So if he's to be sent to court, you should all be removed from immunity and into the naked island. Well, I can't understand that, my dear people, what we're talking about. A budget like this wouldn't put his own head and chin together. This cannot be drawn up either by the management of the PBZ or by the Zagreb Bank or by Erste together. Such a harmful budget that goes hand in hand with large capital and transforming Croatia into a colony of debt slavery. Explain to me. That seems to me, you know how this budget works? Like when that naive guy comes to T-com or Teller 2 and they tell him to sign it, we'll just give you one month now 100 kuna, or we'll give you a free internet, and then you'll see after that we'll take you 50 grand kuna, we'll block you and we'll charge you for the penalty, interest, costs of the procedure, and you won't get unblocked as long as you're alive. That's the policy. It doesn't matter, we live another year, 31.12.2017. the world ends at least according to this budget. Here's something I'd like to say, maybe a little bit off topic, but important, maybe Minister Maric will hear about someone's grief in 1979 and, fortunately, another Tito, Joseph Broz Tito, and he noticed that the republics were in charge of $10 billion, all six republics and seven states today, that they were in debt for $10 billion and you know what he said? "This will not forgive our great-grandsons either. We have now destroyed our own state with this." Was he right? He was. So they didn't destroy any loved one's own country, someone frozen by international conflicts, and I don't know what it's called, some human rights, but it was destroyed by endless borrowing, irresponsiblely, that the IMF would already come with the first stand by the arrangement in 1981. You know what came after that. Where do you get the right of Minister Maric to hire me? Well, I won't let you do that! My kids won't let you do that! Based on what legitimacy? What you won in the elections is 30% of the vote, and 100% of the Croatian people are pushed into the abyss. So of course you're going to say here's the Living Wall, the Demagogy, the pulsism, they have no solutions. Brmoja will immediately say write down 36 amendments that Maric will all turn down in a row. But here I'll tell you some solutions, so you don't say we're a destructive opposition. Go to the CNB and tell the governor who has a very nice salary to apply the Czech model of monetary and fiscal policy, let this entire deficit and these great costs that we have financed by the primary kuna emissions, be abolished by the currency clause. Nothing will happen to the Croatian economy. In fact, jobs and space will be opened for additional taxpayer tax discharge, but with real money, not debt. That's what matters. What it means to me now is that you give me 800 kuna a month more as a parliamentary representative when my son returns 3,000 kuna in 15 years. Tax the bank's profits, they have too much. What do they need it for? Which buys the same vehicles, yachts. Take the advice of MP Aleksic and take from the banks what was illegally changing interest, which illegally charged the exit fees, which were unlawfully accounting for the costs of the processing of the loan. Fill the budget. Here's colleague Lackovic said fill the budget with an ore rent. It's real money, it's not borrowing on a card. Fight the gray economy. How many workers get paid by hand. How's the tax evasion? How many billions are from Croatia to hidden accounts in tax havens and offshore I don't know any variants. Fight corruption, stop at the end of those who in Croatia if you didn't know, I know very well buy flowers for a garden worth 2 million kuna. There's that, too. Flowers for the garden 2 million kuna. So you tell me from where, where it can be earned by some kind of normal honest work. How members of the CNB administration have 40 million kuna property in their property card. Based on who he's paying? Here you can make structural reforms, there you can heal Croatian society, unblock Croatian citizens. 320,000 Croatian citizens are blocked. Deblocate 50,000 OPGs, a bunch of companies and crafts. That's where you'll get the money. That's where you'll get the gratitude that will follow you and after you're no longer alive. That's where you'll earn your place in history, not with some kind of one-time measure important that I don't know the mayor of Bakra back in the saddle. And one more thing really important. This borrowing in Croatia I guarantee you that at least 305 external debt was fully illegal, illegally created by speculation and against the will of the Croatian people. Study international law, call international institutions and write off all illegal debt. If he could have done Ecuador that had 30% of the debt cancelled and then achieved economic growth 8 and a half percent in the first year of 8 and a half percent. You have the courage. Oh, yeah, I was just telling myself and the Croatian people, and when the amendments are here, we'll hear what the government refuses in tax reform, the government refuses. We know everything, and you're just plain populists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22701	Thank you very much. We have eight replicas on your exhibit. The first one came to the line by representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22702	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I agree with you in the conclusion that this is a bit and perhaps too much pre-election budget, which has, among other things, a victory of HDZ in local elections, or trend. I particularly agree with you in the section where you said it was no accident that teachers, teachers, cops, doctors, nurses, employees in the social care system will see the devil growing right in April because by then the government shows itself through negotiations is ready after a year after the conditions to increase the base by 6%. After a year imagine someone from this government deigned to receive these people and listen to what they have to say. They should not have received them, for what they have to say is simply one thing – respect your commitments taken seven years ago. The government of Jadranka Kosor signed an agreement guaranteeing that when conditions are created for this, we know which are, increasing the pay base for all employees in public and state services by 6%. But let's not fool ourselves. Well, those people aren't stupid! The leaders of their unions may agree to it, but teachers, teachers, social workers, doctors, so they see what's going on. They see expenditures rising here by 6.7 billion kuna, but there is no 1.8 billion to fully meet the obligation under the agreement, but to be given crumbs. They're given 400 million, and they're actually suing the state to get to everything that belongs to them, which is 1.8 billion. In the education system alone, you know how much will be given to them according to the budget of what kind of crumbs is the government going to give them generously? 123 million kuna. I really don't think these people are silly and that the government should have been responsible and that when it had already decided to pump on all items this budget expenditure for more than 6 billion, it had to meet its commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22703	Time. Please be careful on time, we have lots of replicas. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22704	Dear fellow Glasovac, not only will the budget be knocked up by the state over every measure, but there will probably be local budgets where the state money will also be run by a pre-election campaign. And as for teachers, there's one study that the Japanese did that every dollar they invested in a teacher, goes back to society with $10, and there's no interest in such reciprocity as teachers and generally people in education. And now we imagine where a good, intelligent teacher can study until he's 25 years old so he has to find a job with a full pay and works 41 and a half years to earn a pension, and his salary is so that he's lower than the average in the country, and his salary will ultimately be that he'll become a social case that unfortunately many of today's teachers or former cultural employees are. And they have indeed been patient for 8 years or 10 years since the signing of the contract. But here, no day today has been able to reach their rights even though all the conditions under the signed agreements have finally been created to do so. What effect this will have on the budget, given the lawsuits, I don't even want to think about it, but I'm afraid it won't be good and this budget will be broken on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22705	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22706	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, I can't understand, but you probably do it on purpose to deceive the public and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, you need to study the budget and see that the reduction in organic production on the revenue side is also caused by revenue from EU funds. So why should we give our resources, if we will at the same time receive funds from the European Union for organic production? Therefore, nothing has been reduced, but will increase in 2017 total income if you did not know it and if you failed to read it. On the other hand, you're talking about 35 billion people in debt to us all together and our children. So do you know that there are credit obligations from before where we are in debt as a state and that with a new 35 billion debt, we are refinanced old liabilities and, of course, with the development of the economy and Croatia that has achieved these results in this past period of public debt reduction on the market whether domestically, through the re-financing of old liabilities, we are sure to get better interest? And I also told you today that in this year's borrowing on the domestic market, just by refinanced the old commitments, Minister Maric earned 250 thousand, 250 million kuna. Therefore, we also want to achieve this great debt far more favourable interest than we had in the past period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22707	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22708	Thank you, dear colleague. If these funds are really going to be increased, I'll be happy. Please explain that to me if I've got something wrong. However, as far as this borrowing is concerned, so all economic textbooks, here we have a professor of economics, show that there is no continuous GDP growth, but that there is one curve where there are periods of growth and periods of decline. We now have 8 years of the first year when we grew up as something and we should have created conditions for the Croatian economy and the budget to be made sustainable, and unfortunately we did not. We, therefore, have decided to borrow and partially spend - I repeat again - for pre-election purposes, and this will simply lead – here is my forecast – already in the spring of 2018 to a new recession, to a new decline in activity. Now you have a drop in industrial production, it has fallen, and also the number of employees has not increased compared to 2015, but is even lower than it was in 2015. And how can you say that we can close the loan, refinance our debts, when it's known that it's simply a long-term unsustainable strategy? The only thing that would be normal is what I mentioned, and what I don't have time to elaborate on right now, is that we ourselves create our own money on a real basis, and we stop borrowing so much. Because it's only a matter of time before the Greek script is repeated with us, when we will no longer be able to pay our pensions and other donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22709	Thank you very much. The next replica, distinguished representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22710	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague Bunjac, our authority has not done any pre-work to make the budget far better, and these advances are constantly given to them by the Franak Association, and now I have come here to talk in the Parliament about these advances and I have already told in the breaks I have taken many times what it is necessary to do. However, no one cares or understands what I'm talking about or wants to understand what I'm talking about. The first thing is fixed margins that banks have imposed illegally on themselves which should be legally determined in a way that would reduce citizens' annuities in all loans by about 20% on average. By returning overpaid interest from illegally charged interest rates, debtors would receive about five billion kunas back, and these five billion kunas in their pockets mean more consumption. Infringements against banks I speak of can constantly be made into a state budget of 9 to 25 billion kuna. It's a legal measure of the state, the DORH has an application in its drawers and does not act on it. Ministry inspections could also react, the CNB could react. No one reacts against banks like they're the banks of a sacred cow. One billion kuna is shown more cost in conversion than the actual cost of conversion, which means 200 million kuna less in the budget next year, because banks will charge 200 million kuna taxes less because of that cost that does not exist. And finally, you could check all the interest in all the state loans that the state has raised at the banks to see if and whether these interest rates may have been illegally charged. It could be very simple to check. So according to my budgets, it could be made based on legal procedures of around 16 billion kunas in citizens' pockets and budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22711	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22712	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Alexic. Here you have now made one of the possible solutions, namely to take away from the banks what they illegally acquired, and they have acquired what you say between nine and 25 billion kunas. That would cover 60 if it were 25 billion kunas 70% of these needs would only be covered by that measure. So one single measure of the entire debt this year would be unnecessary. I would once again like to draw attention to the Croatian public that bank administrations earn millions on an annual basis. I want to say, once again, how many members of the pension fund management who have our money? Can I find out the answer that hides as the biggest state secret in front of the public, let them say how much they make on us. Let him say it's okay for people to get I don't know 800 kuna social aid until they come out of the country billions and billions. So we need to redistribute in society, we need to find money, get back the money that we have, and not feed those who brought us back into such a desperate position that we have 300 billion kuna, I don't know 108% of the public debt, etc., and that citizens, and today and today, write to me that they don't have anything to eat, that they don't have anything to buy for Christmas, that they're being thrown out of the house, that they're blocked to go to jail for one unpaid waste of garbage like Grandma Mink, so we don't have to do a budget in the interest of large capital, and especially not foreign power centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22713	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22714	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's a colleague of Bunjac, listening to your speech, you said that Minister Maric, with 30% of the vote, is pushing 100% of the country's citizens to ruin. And I see his budget structure in which he has total account revenues, I don't know 120 billion but it's tense, and in that account that he's going to be in charge of 35 billion kuna to cover those commitments that are reaching him, that's one third of all the revenues he's planned to make, I say, which are tense. It seems to me that this government is doing an account without innkeepers, simply setting up and installing some kind of structures, structures based on the wrong basis of borrowing, and its predecessors, instead of finally resuscitating our monetary system, that the central bank is put into operation he says this monetary policy is going further, and we know where it leads to the continuation of this path, the continuation of the emigration of young people, the continuation of the tax press, the continuation of the actual destruction and privatisation of everything that remains. This is a policy in which HDZ is credible and consistent, thorough, systematic and in which unfortunately we see it not choosing the funds, and the worst of all is that and those funds that are planned for the DORH are not dealing unfortunately with what they should be dealing with, but are dealing with from my personal system by political opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22715	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22716	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, therefore, raises the question of legitimacy. All right, Minister Maric or the government won 35% of the vote, which perhaps in some ways we accepted when we chose such an electoral system as we have, or this Assembly, but he should indeed take care of all Croatian citizens. And we see here that here the opinion of the opposition created by numerous contacts with citizens, the basis of numerous contacts with experts, the basis of numerous contacts with, therefore, the associated associations, is systematically ignored. I would even dare say, I watched the last time in a tax reform where the opinion of coalition partners was ignored. And then we really have to ask ourselves whether this budget is in the interest of the Croatian people, whether it covers all of its needs or whether it is really created somewhere outside Croatia and serves the goals that I have already mentioned, which are further enslavement of Croatian resources, further emptying the country, further imposing inexecutible obligations and all humiliations that must be endured by the Croatian people. Perhaps something could change if at least MPs of the currently opposition parties were working to amend the electoral law, but I'm afraid they also don't want to change that electoral law that would lead to a change in the situation in Croatian society, but actually it's just about changing the set of people in power, but it's already a different story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22717	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22718	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you say this budget is a function of local elections. I ask you not to underestimate the minds of Croatian voters, and when they come to the day of elections and round up who they will consider, which name and which party they will round up. They are not suckers who easily stick to pre-election promises because if that were the case, you would get 100 percent of the votes. Namely, there is no greater population and demagogy than the one you speak and the promises you make when it comes to the write-off of the debt, and when it comes to the position of the banks, and when it comes to the position of the Croatian National Bank. I don't blame you for that. You're absolutely right. It's part of your political action and you have the right to do so and I don't think there's anyone in particular who resents you. I resent you for not telling the truth when you were at the pay phone. You said next year's directing, that's what you said. That's not true. Directing costs are reduced as VAT is reduced to electricity, VAT on waste management. You say it's withdrawn from the EU funds 5 billion. That's not true. 7.5 billion planned 8.5 seems to me, 8 and something. Therefore, when you speak, I resent you when you tell a lie. And the fact that you're going to perform as you perform is your right. And it's the right of this government to propose a budget as she thinks it's best to propose. And I'm saying that funding the debt and the 33 billion you're talking about reduces the deficit and you know it, you're just saying it your way to convince the citizens that the government doesn't know what it's doing. Refinancing of 33 billion with lower interest, and interest is the cost and expenditure of the state budget will reduce the deficit of the state budget. That is what I blame you for, and everything else you say, it is your right and I do not blame you for it. You have the right as a political party. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22719	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22720	Thank you very much. Dear representative, he doesn't share the living wall of sausages and beer at the time of the election. Wherever there's some kind of HDZ stand, umbrellas, beers, some kind of roasting, so what is it, it's a political program. It's the political program you're offering. So please, I don't know, maybe I need to change my glasses. I've never seen HDZ offer some kind of program to people. I've seen the roads open, tunnels open that don't lead anywhere right at the time of the election. Here I will make an effort for you, given that you say that I am..., to paint all these openings of roads which will be in April next year and I am very interested in how long these roads will be, that I know there is a road in Međimurje which is also open to Rijeka that has no bridge. From your client. Well, I don't know, so if it's so that you're seriously winning the voter vote, then that's when, obviously, we disagree. And as for the solution, here's Mr. Alexic told you some very interesting solutions, but I don't know, we heard about some case of Iceland, we heard about some case of Ecuador, I don't know Argentina. People rebelled, they said enough. They surrounded the parliament in Iceland, and they said, "You won't leave until you do something." And now look at this country, what prosperity it has, how proud they are, what they've accomplished. And they could have done without the European Union and I don't know without, contrary to all these credit agencies. How did they threaten them all? They said, "You can't ban money from being taken out of the country." The first thing they did was ban it. You should have courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22721	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22722	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bunjac, I'm signing everything. I see that the SDP will be signed as well. It is those who owe the Republic of Croatia four years who owe 100 billion kuna. It is those who, in those four years in the Croatian forests, have driven a thousand people to the road, and the administrations have raised fees, bonuses, which with 64 thousand, amazingly, 5 billion kuna invested in agriculture, 5 billion kunas in dairy production. 64,000 milkmen had a manufacturer, and at the end of the term of office 4,800. And 5 billion invested. We're 40 percent now from milk production, and then we had 70 percent. About EU funds, projects, of course, and I agree, let's vote, in fact, who gave the finance ministers so far the right I don't know they're in charge, to sell gold. Here's a case of 13 tons of gold, 15 tons of gold, sold gold. You had a piece of your own, and I had a piece of mine. But they sold it. So in the register of the Croatian People's Republic, we don't have a gram of gold in the vault. But I am the propo of those who have raised money, robbed money, filed 10 criminal charges, and they have against me, though, for insults, honors and so on and were not afraid. So how many criminal charges have you filed against these tycoons who are now managing this country? My city was robbed, weapons were taken and created by their empire. Today they run around Peppermint, they talk to party presidents, they talk to cafes, they spin CDs, DJs are with the head of the National Bank, Mr. Vujčić, they cooperate very well. I did it myself. Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22723	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22724	Thank you very much. I don't know why you from the ruling coalition want to present us as SDP and HNS coalition partners all the time. We criticize them just as much as you do. On the other hand, we also see that there are good people in HDZ and we have never acted against them personally, as there are good and bad people in the SDP. Here's when you're already pulling me by the tongue, I'm aware there's a problem in the SDP, so here's the amendment where a representative representing a Social Democrats wants to build a pool in his place. And it's by the sea. So, tell me, is it normal for people to dig by the trash in a country where the opposition representative and the Social Democrats are asked to set aside funds for the pool in the place where he lives? Well, we're aware of those problems. It's just as embarrassing as some of these HDZ procedures that buy voters with sausages and beer. And as it's called, we're in the same position as each other with that we're still a little bit more on the side of the opposition now because we're an opposition ourselves. Here, thank you very much. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22725	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, my colleague Bulj, please. I'm asking you without being thrown into the word without giving you the opportunity to speak. We still have two replicas, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22726	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, here by listening to the debate, you can't essentially get the impression that this isn't a debate on the state budget, but that this is a debate on populism, on demagogy, on returning to some things that are not at all a place on this parliamentary speaker, but of course it's your right. Of course, I've seen through your debate, you mention, you come back as some predecessors of Joseph Broz whose unfortunately foreign exchanges are still being declared today and they say let's not stick to the law as a drunk float. Let's not stick to the law when it comes to our own, stick to the law when it comes to others, of course it's inappropriate. However, this review of me refers to the part where you trouble the financing of pensions to the members of the Croatian Council of Defense while you say there is neither for our pensioners. I remind you, therefore, that the concern of the Croats in BiH as a constituent people is that it is a permanent task and obligation of the Republic of Croatia. Belonging to the Croatian people is not defined by either the geographical borders, nor we share the same culture, we share the same tradition, we share language, we share history, we share our common future. The role of Croatian emigrants, especially Croats in BiH, especially the creation of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War is immeasurable. And to problem us today with financing pensions for people who have done everything possible to have a Croatian future, to have our country, I find it completely inappropriate. We as a state are directed at each other in every way. And so whether you like it or not. This Croatian government will use targeted measures to help Croats outside Croatia, work to connect, deepen ties and work on their integration into Croatian social political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22727	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22728	An esteemed colleague no one disputes the belonging of someone to the Croatian people. Long ago, Ante Starcevic said, a member of the Croatian people is anyone who gives a statement that it is. And that's okay. However, the measure, be sure, is here and Minister Maric has arrived will cause a terrible dissatisfaction among the pensioners. And why would it cause dissatisfaction? Are you sure it's not about my speech? I warn you that the Croatian pension system is currently unsustainable, completely unsustainable, especially the second pillar that allegedly brings some kind of calm. And yet I think there is another state that should take over part of these obligations, so it is the home state of BiH only if you think that you are actually Croats in Bosnia automatically that this is the Croatian state there. So until this issue is resolved, I think that you're giving 2 billion kunas for pensions and there's no way for your own citizens to retire that it's a very, very bad measure that not only could damage the budget but could lead to serious social unrest. And that is why we should really think about it from a number of angles whether to introduce such a measure or not. It is my opinion that, with all due respect to the members of the HVO, this measure should therefore be either delayed or in line with the general possibilities of the Croatian budget and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22729	Thank you very much. We have the last replica of the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22730	Dear Vice President, my colleague Bunjac called me in his statement to invite you to make amendments, to turn them in and that they regularly refuse. Well, I think I know what the reason is. Yesterday we witnessed an almost surreal debate in which about 6 hours your colleague Pernar has terrorized us all, saying that this Law on Local Elections should not be changed, that even criminals and rapists should be allowed to make their choice. And then after that great debate you are, your club has submitted an amendment in which you are still looking for stricter provisions than we asked for by this law. And then I had to ask my fellow submitent who is basically the attitude of the Living Wall, what does he think? He told us that the amendment was signed by the president of your party and that it was clearly an official position. So you first have to agree between yourselves that then we know what you want and what you want to change and what your amendments are. Because in the debate, you're saying one thing, you're proposing other amendments, so you might confuse Minister Maric himself, and then he rejects those amendments of yours. Make a deal and we'll take it. And otherwise, this amendment is good for you, and maybe we'll accept it in part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22731	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22732	Thank you very much. Well, you've caught up with an amendment that may be technically incomplete, but the trial has submitted 70 amendments to, say, tax reform. So none of them have been accepted? So how is that possible? Do you really think that people in opposition know nothing about taxes or do I not know about the budget? Here's your proposal to cut government officials' wages we raised our hands, we don't have a problem with that, no matter what you pushed us out, we voted. Did we all vote here to remain immune to Agent Cule? We did. Did we say he's HDZ? We didn't. Did we say he's criticizing us, attacking us? We didn't. The man's been decorated nine times. We won't vote for it. But you never accept our amendments, unless they are in line with the amendments that you have also accepted. And I ask you nicely to show a little more insight, a little more goodwill and respect, and then there will be some better cooperation between the parties for the benefit of Croatian citizens in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22733	Thank you very much. We move to debate on behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22734	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues that the Prime Minister is here, then I would refer it to him, since he didn't, then I will instruct you, Mr. Minister. This is about landing, and I asked for the budget for last year, a significant part of the funds of extra- budgets is planned on the basis of the withdrawal of funds from European funds. Since this is an important addition to the stability of this budget, an important element in the feasibility of this budget, an important element generally in the effectiveness of the government's policy next year. Would it have been good if we'd heard how it was meant to be done? So not only the figures but how and with what mechanisms are these meant to be achieved? Why would I ask that? Not out of bad intentions, from the best intentions because our Croatian practice of withdrawing funds from European funds is still worryingly low. If you allow me respected colleagues and colleagues, I will only use a small number of data that illustrate this for 2015, Portugal took part in European funds with 1 billion and 603 million euros. He pulled 4 billion and 904. Poland participated with 3.5 billion and withdrew 17,5 billion. Hungary with less than 900 million kuna and has withdrawn over 7 billion. Italian Prime Minister Renzi, who is in resignation, was angry that the EU would not finance the lift of the wire no matter what the Hungarian prime minister or Hungarian government uses, but they withdrew more than 5 billion European funds, more than 5 times as much as they gave. And what about us in 2015? We paid a total of 400 million euros and how much did we withdraw in 2015? 550. Now our government is planning to praise the following, what has been stated and what has not yet been shown, I will now be taking the turn of those ministries that have shown it, so it is commendable that the Ministry of Economy has shown, compared to 2016, an increase of 495% very ambitious. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy plans to withdraw 970 million kunas, millions from European pre-accession or European structural and other funds. The Rural Ministry, and that's good, and we welcome that. But how is that going to happen? We still don't have the right answer to that. The rural development ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture for Rural Development Measures, means a total withdrawal of funds from the EU under the plan of the Ministry of Agriculture is approaching 4 billion kuna, slightly less than 4 billion. Of which, for rural development measures, less than 2 billion and 300 million kunas. You'd say we're taking off our hat for that plan. But how? How will that happen? What is our ability to absorb these funds? That's what I'd like to hear. Because we could read everything else ourselves. But this answer was supposed to give the government to us here and we're expecting it. The Ministry of Regional Development, so as we can take off our hat from the Ministry of Agriculture because of ambition, we cannot take off our hat from the Ministry of Regional Development. It's about the next one. Therefore, it is planned to withdraw 972 million kuna from EU funds 11% more than it was in 2016. But the European Regional Development Fund is already planning to achieve 5% less. What we are particularly concerned about if we have read the budget well, and possibly not, so if we are not corrected, because of us, for the sake of the public and of course for the assessment of the budget itself. Fund for EU funding projects 85.70% lower than 2016 It is also the co-financing of EU projects in assisted areas and other areas with a specific state of development. So, underdevelopment 63% less. We commend the fact that it was still contained in the government program when the government gained confidence. It's the formation of a Regional Development Fund, but with 45 million kuna. It's necessary to start, but it's not enough for what it takes. And in other words, the development of 72 million kuna assisted areas increases 41% for praise. And now I'm going to present a few data that illustrates the situation and that makes it seem necessary for the Ministry of Regional Development to have a much more ambitious approach to development policies and development mechanisms and budgetary development. I will illustrate this for example twenty municipalities, the region of the Republic of Croatia that have the lowest index of development, so the development index which is one and probably if it were possible to measure and below one then many would be below it. So for those twenty municipalities of which at least 10 SDSS are in power. The condition looks like this. Thirty-six percent of the national roads are crying out for the necessary repair. 48% of the county roads that pass through these municipalities require recovery and repair. I don't want to talk about local and unclassified roads. But what's additionally shocking is 65% of the settlements in which about 5,000 families don't have water. It's a water line, but there's no water since '95. years on here. Given that the average unemployment rate in these areas is 33% and the average unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia is 15% how this changes unless we are more ambitious in investing regional development funds in these areas. If another information is taken into account, which is that the percapital income in these areas is slightly greater than 900 kuna, likely if the pensions of defence, police and others were taken away, one part of the population would be seen as being significantly less than 900 kuna. The average of the Republic of Croatia is 3310 per capital. How do you change that? Only a targeted and ambitious approach to regional development policy. For the following year, in order to provide enough funds of slightly less than 400 million kuna, so 0.3% of this budget should provide so much funding. That would create jobs, that would change the circumstances. Of course, we're not gonna get anywhere near that. Two things I still want to say. First, the disproportionate distribution of funds for areas of special state care, let no one get me wrong, I look forward to the City of Vukovar getting 58 million kuna through the Vukovar City Fund and another 51 million kuna based on donations to local self-government units, a total of 110 million kuna, not counting the other donations it receives. Where do you see colleagues and colleagues? And I'm one of those who, on average, once or twice, once a month or once every two months, I go to Vukovar. With 110 million kuna what can be done? And that represents, that represents, this 58 represents a quarter of the resources of 44 municipalities and the city. And Nikola Andric's school in Vukovar is waiting for it to be restored as Nikola Tesla waited until Minister Jovanovic arrived and was restored, as I now believe the respected minister Barisic will restore the school along with you, along with these funds to restore the school of Nikola Andric, which both Croatian and Serbian children are going to go to. But for some reason, the school suffers and is not restored, and some are restored twice. Why? Another thing I want to say. We were able to raise funds for reconstruction and housing by 20 million and something million, and that's good. But in the meantime, the government has made a decision to give members of the defence formations of the Croatian Army and the Croatian Defence Council 100 points, 100 points in advance. So everyone else including the domicile population required by the reconstruction program will be 100 points short. If those funds will be provided by the Department of Defense, we don't mind. But if those funds are going to come from the Department of Reconstruction and Housing, that's discrimination. And I'm going to say that here one more time, it's discrimination and no one can defend it. For this, the funds for reconstruction and housing have not been increased. Thousands of people are waiting for their home to be restored, taken care of and taken care of until Croatia enters the European Union, are not taken care of until today. And in the meantime, we're going to introduce a new category with a new indexation. And the last thing I want to say. There is no budget item regarding the re-electrication of 82 settlements. But, Mr. Minister, if the hep's winning in this year is 2 billion kuna, is that 3 and a half million, 35 million kuna, which has been the legal obligation of the public company of the Croatian electricity company, which has since 2011 not invested a single June? He can't. [[Intruder Milanka Opačić: Time.]] I'll finish and then you'll stop me. In this place, don't be angry, I'm asking for the right to finish. Is 35 million kuna at 2 and a half billion, so that's how much they spend I'm sure I won't say what. That's why it's our moral obligation, Mr. Minister and Prime Minister, to direct that money to where it hasn't been directed for years, and their legal obligation is to direct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22735	Thank you very much. I think you might be able to say some more things through two replicas that have applied for your exposure. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22736	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So my replica refers to this part of your presentation where you mentioned this budget regarding the funds that are related to certain operational programmes. So, when it comes to operational programmes, it is very interesting to look at the way in which the budget was formed, so in the item of one ministry when it comes to the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion in 2014 and 2020 and when you see the execution of 2015 is slightly more than a million kuna, the plan for 2016 was 22 million kuna, but the execution was very weak. And now we go very ambitious, 62 million kuna or something more for 2017, 251 million kuna for 2018, 321 so projections for 2019. This is what we say all the time that much of this budget is based on good wishes. So, we bought the lucky one, we filled it out, and now we expect to win the lottery. Whether or not we're going to win a lot depends on a series of factors and a series of elements. I suppose you will support this budget, but we must make it clear and loud when it comes to the European Union's funds, it is on very flimsy feet. These air-conditioned legs depend on how many professional services in certain ministries will work and be prepared and ready to prepare for it all together, but from what we have in the budget based on 2015 and 2016, and I must say that it seems that we have had one trainee government by October 2016, so those who have satisfied others are still and who have not satisfied others. But really what I've just said, that's how the budget is formed and everything depends on that happiness that we're either going to win at the lottery or not, but we have to make sure we get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22737	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22738	Dear colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, I didn't use that kind of vocabulary like you, like you, but it's a place that requires an answer, that's a question that requires an answer. But unfortunately, we asked that question in 2015. Therefore, it is a structural issue of our fiscal policy on the one hand and on the other hand the organisation of our country since its entry into the EU to withdraw funds. And the moment is to wonder if such a centralized system is suitable for withdrawing funds or not, or maybe we should go to the decentralised system that the Czechs went to, which the Poles went to. But we have to have a study to see where's wrong, which is wrong. You say no good administration, maybe no good leadership, maybe no serious ideas, maybe no real communication, maybe no knowledge of what the country needs. So if we already have a centralized system, then I guess it's necessary that at the government level there's a total video of how and in what way A)provide people the knowledge that they can withdraw funds, B) participation, means of participation and finally monitoring how things are realized, especially surveillance as they refuse. If someone makes a mistake and forgets to paginate or mark the 24th page of their project, they will simply return it to him and tell him that his project is no good. Is that a good way? Absolutely not. People need help to avoid that kind of mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22739	Time. Next replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22740	Thank you, Chairman. So here I was listening to Mr. Pupovac and listening to him he touched on a very important topic, which is the restoration of broken houses and really without the restoration of those houses it's hard to expect someone to return to their home. I had a chance to talk to the Croats who were from northern Bosnia and Herzegovina expelled from Posavina the same things tormented them. So some of them would have come there to their homes, but their houses are still in the state they were in at the time of the war. It's unfortunate that this government has been since '95 all these years. It's been 21 years since she's found time and money to solve this problem. and the problem could be solved if he wanted to, which means that this government has one hostile policy towards minorities and that it doesn't care about minorities. And in this direction, I support the full exposure of my colleagues. As far as the rest of the exhibition is concerned, that this story about European funds is a large part of a fake story because experience is said to be the history of a teacher of the future, and our experience or history teaches us that these funds from the EU funds are one to say that they are on a very long stick and that although they seem to be close to things are very far away and in practice they cannot be used or exist only in theory, and they are counting as if they were actually going to be used and I don't think there's one I'm going to say accounting error because in my opinion it was deliberately made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22741	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22742	Dear counterpart Pernar, as regards the second part of your replica, the usefulness of EU funds, so many countries, after the collapse of socialism such as Hungary and the Czech Republic, were in poor shape, but were organised until the entry into the EU. They didn't put themselves in a position, look we became a member of the club and that's enough, we can walk around with a card and say we're... That's enough. Who so imagined coming and joining the EU is the enemy of this country. One who thinks that it is necessary to take advantage of what we are EU members are doing for this country. And the state's state of affairs isn't organized so the funds could be withdrawn and that's our problem. The problem is that it's not about that, the problem is that we don't talk about it. The problem is, we're not discussing why we haven't been able to withdraw the funds so far. We take turns in power and deal with each other instead of calling on the Greeks and wondering what the problem was with yours, to call the Minister of Agriculture at the time when the problem was. We're not gonna do this because we're counting on each other and we're catching each other by the throat, and we're not trying to make this country a better society that people won't leave. We can drill as much as we want in the country, but the country is where people are doing well. And if it's not good for people here, they're going to go somewhere else that's going to become their homeland. And that's why we're responsible. The same way that all other lands will become their homeland, and this one will no longer be because we do not try to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22743	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22744	Thank you very much. It is certainly that every budget and, of course, every state budget is actually an indicator of the policy of the one that the state budget proposes. We often stress the accounting character of the budget. For some time, we stress the yuridic character of the budget, meaning without something drawn in the budget, public money cannot be spent or public money can be included. We often stress the economic character by forgetting that every economic goal is ultimately a political goal. But we are reluctant to talk about the budget about politics. And in fact, every budget shows the atmosphere of a society. That's why we, from the National Minority Club, are dissatisfied with the speed that this budget has been set up for. We've actually led almost to the finished stuff, to the final budget. We woke up literally five minutes before things were over. You'll say, "They're not done yet." They did. Actually, they are, now they're done. And when we woke up those five minutes ago, and the expedient circumstance is that you didn't have much time either because actually the elections were recent, but when we finally realized that we had to act quickly, we weren't involved in putting this budget together, we were already dealing with correcting what we thought was wrong. So the first thing I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, is that we from the Club of National Minorities are going to start knocking on your door from the end of the 1st month or the beginning of the 2nd month as it is, here's the first time I'm going to use it, I'm going to talk about the Italian Parliament that has virtues and faults, I'm going to talk about a Parliament that has a lot of virtues, about a German Parliament where the budget starts talking the next day after the budget is adopted. We will begin you, I apologize for the words, under quotes, to harass you from the 2nd month so that we can put together a policy strategy towards minorities or minority policies. Because it's politics. It's not about accounting. It's politics. You know, we're exposed to enormous pressures. It's enough to go on websites where people think they can express their lowest passions and see that one word that's not invented by either the HDZ or the IDS or the MOST is unfortunately invented in one third place and I'm sorry it's invented there. There's talk on these sites about ethno-business all the time, and it's finally become commonplace that it's actually a business. This is about 7.5% of the members of the funding national minorities whose activity is the minority activity, the retention and development of their identity, the multiculturality of certain areas is organised, financed and regulated by the budget. And that's politics. If we want to have a multiple society, which is not one-dimensional, which is multidimensional, I'm going to use one of Fromm's terms, which is not one-dimensional but multidimensional, which is not monocultural but more cultural, then we're going to have a proper policy towards national minorities. And therefore, even today, certain items will be found where they will be said, See how much you have increased them, and see how much this is simply not true. It is true that in previous terms and when the right hand centre was in power, and when the left centre was in power, it was reduced by at least 21%, and I claim one quarter of the funding was reduced by national minorities. One quarter, that's a lot. I will again set an example here of my “Edit” publishing house where the funds have been greatly reduced. What did that mean? It's human destiny. We have 90 people there who are employed, eight got fired, the rest had 25 percent lower salary and the releases were reduced. The newspapers, the only newspaper in the foreign language, the daily newspaper in the foreign language in Croatia, could be some in English I appeal, but there are none, only we have daily newspapers that can be read without being in Croatian, the volume of these newspapers is reduced. So, in other words. We're repairing damage from the past. Now there's finally no more cuts. Thank you, but we have to start, which we have no cuts, but we have to start, I still have half a minute 'cause then my colleague Keatazi comes along and he's gonna tell you about the Roma, get ready. We need to fix the mistakes of the past, minorities are left behind in this, in our case the rest here the population rest of the great wars, the First World War and the Second World War. The way we treat them is also one of the indications of how we will interact with the countries of their cultural origin. Thank you very much, Mr. Keatazi, you're here already, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22745	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the State Budget, which is very much in front of us, reflects what we have been talking about for the past few months, and especially what the Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic was talking about at the government's presentation here in the Parliament. Unlike the last government, which for various reasons is the protection of the rights of national minorities in some way disregarded, the government led Prime Minister Plenkovic's programme included the protection of national minorities and their position, which was logical under the constitution. This has achieved the stability of the government we have long waited for and on the other hand it has gained an experienced and quality partner of the National Minorities Club. The draft budget that is before us largely maintains the government's commitment to act actively in the field of protection of national minorities. In that sense, the different items of this budget give you the knowledge that it wasn't just about promises. Besides, by the end of this year, the government will have so-called. operational plans for each group of national minorities actively working with all representatives at the National Minorities Club. The stability of the club and good cooperation have been established. In addition to all of this, I have specifically struggled to identify the particular difficult position of the Roma national minority who, besides my personal testimony, can very easily support statistics from several relevant sources. I am pleased that colleagues in the National Minorities Club also recognize this difficult situation in which the Roma national minority is located, and I expect that the operational plan for the Roma National Minority will also be maintained in this regard in order to maintain the situation on the ground, i.e. the need for urgent resolution of social, residential, educational and other burning problems. In addition to the negotiations, I have established, immediately after the formation of the Government, communication with the ministries that are important for solving these problems whether it is the Ministry of Social Care and the need to amend the Social Care Act and its problematic provisions as... and similar or central state office for renovation and housing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to political will, we have encountered a number of problems in these talks, in some resolutions we lack a legal framework and in others so far, other than political will, we lacked the means themselves. The draft budget that is ahead of us does not solve all problems, problems that have been systematically ignored not only for the past year but the last 700 years cannot be solved in a few months. In the last six years we've done a lot but the research shows that it's not nearly enough. The European Agency for Founded Rights Report recently published a survey confirming that Roma in Europe live below all standards of life and that they are at risk at all levels. And when we talk about housing and education and health and employment. But what I am particularly concerned about is the fact that the situation in the Republic of Croatia is even worse than the European average by about 10%. This shows that so far government strategies and even international initiatives have not produced the desired results and that there is still much, much work ahead of us. The proposal for a State budget for 2017 provides for funding in this regard, and it is significantly aimed at addressing the problem that is plagued not only by Roma but also by other citizens. I only hope that in the next phases and in the work that is yet to come, we will have an even more specific impact on all the problems mentioned above on the items in the budget itself. The National Minority Club will support the draft budget for next year and offer stability to this government and a serious partner. On the other hand, we expect quick action on the development of operational programmes and a clear commitment by the Government to ensure that the position of minorities and other citizens for whom the priorities of the Government need to be particularly addressed. The positive trends and recovery we witness must continue and this... The implementation of the relevant national minorities programme should also be monitored. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we maintain such continuity, we believe that the following reports will record a rise in standards not only in the Roma community but also among all citizens. When we look at all the total budget expenditures, minorities and minority problems are not a burden of society, they are neither disproportionate compared to the contribution of the national minorities of the society to which they belong. It is a great pity that we have not recognised this before because, ultimately, we are states established on credibilitys that mean a decent life and social security of all citizens, and especially the rights stemming from other numerous conventions and democratic standards in the field of human rights. Every time we questioned these rights, they didn't just lose minorities but society as a whole. In the hope that we will reverse all these negative trends, we support the budget, noting that we will start close cooperation only after the New Year, and the results themselves will show whether the optimism of minority MPs was justified. In the end, I would like to say that there have been some reductions, I would say unwarrantedly because there has been a previous realization that has suffered from the instability of the political situation. This resulted in a reduction of funds for the measure of public works within the Roma action plan of 1.5 million kuna and then 1 million and 200 thousand kuna less for the Roma's secondary scholarships. I have to point out that it's a lot, that a lot of funds has also been recovered. I have also said all about the consequences of 2016 that we will correct, I hope, in the rebalances and the following financial projects, and in particular I point out that political will is key. She's the most important because the funds existed this year, but we haven't been able to do anything at all. In all of these, I will also be particular in favour of fulfilling the interests and other minorities that my colleagues represent, in particular Austria, Germany, Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Russia, Vlaska, Russia, Turkey, the Ukrainian and Jewish national minorities and all their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22746	Congratulations on your accuracy. We have two replicas, the first part of the presentation of the esteemed colleague Radin is the esteemed colleague Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22747	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Radin, when he started his presentation, then he said it was a budget and a political message. I can fully agree with that and use this opportunity to perhaps say and warn us all together that we already have a law on Monday called the Law amending the Police Act. This is the law which entered into force on 31 March 2011 and part of the provision of Article 21 was to enter into force on 1 January 2013. These are provisions that speak of the rights of police officers who are suspended by the state service to leave for invalidity pension due to injuries where they are entitled to a net amount of severance of the average monthly net salary. This was also due to take effect on 1 January 2013, so it was a delay until 1 January 2015, so it was a postponement until 1 January 2017, and now we will have a substantial increase in expenditure by 1 January 2019. So the political message is that for police officers or police officers to say more precisely this budget will not be so expressed within St. Nicholas, so they won't get anything in the boot, or they'll get a bang. And that's clear enough to say. So the political message for police officers is this budget and in the explanation that we have on the table and will be in the debate on Monday says that the delay until 1 January 2019 is not in the budget for them and we have had the opportunity on several occasions to listen and discuss this expenditure side of the budget where there are significant increases and the increase in the Assembly's item is about 50% higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22748	Thank you, too. The answer to my colleague Radin's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22749	Thank you very much. The great Italian poet Pier Paolo Pasolini in 1968 in a wave in 68 absolutely against the waves then, although he was left-handed he sided with the police. Why? Because he said that cops were sons or daughters, sons mostly at the time of workers and peasants, while those who demonstrated sons and daughters of the bourgeoisia. So when you talk about the violation of the rights of workers and peasants, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22750	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, a fellow member of Katazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22751	I am pleased that you have succeeded with this government in achieving more successful cooperation and preliminary agreements related to the creation of this budget and all with a view to better integration and the better quality of life of members of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia. I am pleased to see that the resources for the implementation of the national Roma programme have increased significantly from 2013 to 2020, but I also share the dissatisfaction with the fact that the funds for secondary scholarships for Roma students have fallen by 27%, respectively, compared to the implementation or implementation of the 2016 plan. I don't think that's good because we know how hard it is, and how hard it has to be to put the children of members of the Roma national minority into not only the mandatory primary education system, but how much effort we have to make in order to leave them in the system and encourage them to continue secondary education. So here I believe that this may be a way to save itself with the same resources from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but through the National Foundation for Supporting Student and Student Standard and we know that we have had problems with paying off these scholarships because Roma are also part of a group that receives scholarships right through that foundation that these two mechanisms will improve the lives of high school students and students of the Roma national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22752	Thank you. Answer the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22753	I thank my esteemed colleague. I must tell you that everything you have stated that you are absolutely right and that I fully agree with you have in mind with the Government of Mr Milanovic I have in some way established one good contact and we have solved those burning problems which, when it comes to the Roma national minority and all 11 other national minorities that I represent. This is one of the reasons why we have established a good continuity, and I deeply believe in having regard to 8, calling that I could not establish it, and I believe in the 9th meeting with Prime Minister Plenkovic that we will succeed because at the very beginning we have already been working on that specific operational plan. And I'm deeply hoping we can do it. Otherwise when it comes to scholarships for members of the Roma national minority of high school students. First we have to say that this item has to change, because it's not a scholarship, it's supposed to be a teaching aid. Because that is why there is confusion in the majority population, especially among members of the Roma national minority. I believe that in the future here and I pray and there is also the Minister of Finance and Minister of Science, Education and Sports to change that item into a teaching aid. When it comes to high school scholarships, it's true that it's during the academic year, so we made it to the very end that they get what we have to change. Here she is now, for the third fourth month and I still don't know what's going on with these scholarships. Because scholarships are now serving members of the Roma community that in that academic year they will be able to serve in some way to help them. Because a lot of Roma students give up because I can't get scholarships when the academic year begins, but at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22754	Thank you. Next is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honorable counterpart Marko Sladolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The proposed state budget lists the planned total revenues of the state budget in 2017 amounting to HRK 121.6 billion, while for 2018 they are projected to amount to HRK 127.3 billion. As a result of the gradual strengthening of economic activity recovery and the increased absorption of EU funds towards the end of the period, it is estimated that the growth in budget revenue will be more pronounced and the total revenue for 2018 will therefore be projected at €132.3 billion. They also encourage data related to export growth, as well as a reduction in the unemployment rate, i.e. employment growth of 1.6%. Following this, the growth rate of the gross domestic product in 2016 will be 2.7% which will significantly exceed the original forecasts. In the medium term, positive developments are expected to continue, and a gradual acceleration of economic activity growth is expected. In 2017 and 18, GDP growth of 3.2% is projected to accelerate to 3.3 in 2019. It is also planned to increase expenditure of 6.7 billion kuna in 2017 compared to 2016. Of the 6.7 billion kuna, the increase in expenditure is 3.8 billion kuna. It refers to increased expenditure financed from sources affecting the level of deficit and 2.9 billion kuna on increased expenditures financed from other sources and from EU funds, as well as own and dedicated revenues. A number of long-term economic vulnerabilities are needed to maintain positive movements. The importance of this direction of action is seen in the recent findings of the European Commission which warn of permanent macro-economic and structural weaknesses in the economy, particularly in the context of high levels of public corporate and external debt under high unemployment conditions. When we talk about the importance of a spending party whose increased control can significantly reduce the increase in expenditure growth. We will give a positive example from within the Ministry of the Interior where only at the costs needed for Microsoft licenses amounting to 28 million kuna. We cut the same costs to 8 million kuna. We believe that a deep analysis of the expenditure side, i.e. the costs within the ministry, can make a significant contribution to an effective budget. Also when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior, it is important to note future cooperation with the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Shipbuilding where savings are provided through the costs of the website as well as cooperation with the FER which through savings will ensure the interaction of the academic community and the Ministry of Interior. This cooperation will result in trained students who will be ready to work on the market after high school education or go into independent waters in accordance with the activities they have gained experience with. This is an example that you should follow and other services as many opportunities as they have for the same. In the operations of the Ministry of the Interior, it is important to stress that in 2016 police officers were provided with the work of the salary coefficient from 0.76 to 0.8 who had the lowest salary within the Ministry of the Interior and at the heart of receiving other employees. The growth of the coefficient will continue in 2017. Payments from 0,8 to 0,85 but from other items of the budget, not at the expense of receiving other employees. The reorganisation of the MUP to be implemented will not be burdened by the state budget, while through a series of operational measures, budget savings will be continuously ensured. The Department of Justice. The former government left the ministry in a very poor financial state with large amounts of debt, unpaid accounts, which included lawyers and warlocks. These debts made it difficult for lawyers and witches to work, and many of them were forced to stop doing their jobs, or activities. In 2016, the ministry resolved the large majority of debts, and the 2017 budget will resolve the remaining debts. We stress that the budget follows the Ministry of Justice's work plan, so we cite some of the ways in which it is realised. First, after being in the last five years, there has been no room and no recognised needs for trainees in the State's attorneys and courts are employed 45 trainees. Two, the reorganisation of the judicial administration unites the services of material and financial operations, which, apart from saving, will result in a long-awaited organisation of the previously fragmented units, we believe that this budget is realistic in relation to the plans for the modernisation of the judicial administration or the work of the courts. Three, the digitisation that started with implementation is a key segment within the Ministry of Justice's work plan because it finally realized how important it is to invest in information and communication technologies to make use of it in its maximum. And four, the infrastructure of the judicial authorities in the budget is read to move into long-awaited projects of the judiciary market in Zagreb and the judiciary market in Split. When we talk about the perspective of the budget from the revenue side, or the increase of revenue from EU funds, we cite, for example, the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The budget provides the necessary funding for the project in the Environment Programme in particular in the water economy sector, waste management, black-point recovery, energy efficiency. Realisation of a new generous operating cycle is a great competitiveness and cohesion. In addition to meeting the objectives set out in the Accession Treaty, a basis is created for the launch of a new economic cycle within the framework of the new European Circular Economy Policy. As a consequence, there is a rise in resource efficiency and job creation. We also have an example at the Ministry of Administration where the budget has been increased for actions under the action plan that will be adopted at the government where 800 million kuna will be provided for public administration projects and programmes by 2020 from the EU funds. Therefore, in 2017, we allocate 20 million kuna as the first part of the implementation of this plan and project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22756	Thank you, too. There wasn't a single replica. So we're going straight to the next club's debate. It is the club of representatives of the Labour Party and the solidarity of reformers and independent representatives of the esteemed colleague Željko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22757	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. So this draft budget is actually a fundamental financial instrument of what we want to finance in next year from state resources. According to what we can see compared to last year, we have an increase of almost all items. So, all of us who strive to ensure a better life and better funding from the state budget should be satisfied and I believe that's how it's going to be. But in my opinion, I'd like to look back at the five themes that I think are extremely important and that should always be, gentlemen of the HNS give you a little bit, so unmoved, you don't have to listen but don't talk. So I'm going to put my review on five points that I think should always be found in the state budget and in the order of the next. Number one, I think it's the government's duty, and the finance minister, and the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture to protect the nation's health and prevent these food poisonings that are going on for uncontrollable imports, for the benefit of the import lobby. It is necessary to pass laws and regulations so that all of us together are prevented from buying something called healthy food, and certainly not healthy food and the basis of our diet can not be healthy, but healthy food. In this way you will get more funding on the revenue side of the budget, because you will strengthen domestic agriculture, reduce unemployment, reduce deficits, get a better rating of credit ratings, and in this way you will be able to refinance all those liabilities even more favourably. So we see that in the budget, significant funds, over 30 billion kuna, are related to the financing of the credit commitments made, and this represents one at the level of the body health problem. I would make one recommendation to those who plan for 5 years or more if they might listen to what Professor Lovrinovic says, as the people of Change Croatia or the Living Wall say, so that we do not come into a situation that we cannot fulfil our obligations to creditors. So not to make this a health condition when a man is healthy, doesn't care about health, when he starts losing it then he's in a state of intoxication. But when it comes to the situation of the terminal, then it starts eating a cycle and it's raw so that what we think today is a raw cycle, these proposals for ways of financing through a more flexible way of working the CNB is impossible and impossible not to ultimately apply it exactly. On the other hand, the budget will change over the year, and the items will be folded, we will also have rebalancing. But what I think should always be in the budget is that this government is turning greenfield into investments and making sure that all these funds that are planned to come from the European Union are realised, and that it is necessary not to humanise the party, but that the most capable and most professional people are in the most important places in the ministries. I don't think it's a problem to borrow, not even sell property. But we need to know why we're doing this unless we plan to move into greenfield investments that will attract special benefits for foreign investors and stop young people from leaving. Therefore, anything necessary to form a business zone or to allow foreign investors to move their production to an area where young people are moving from our country today must not have an obstacle to finding funds in the state budget. I would also like to urge you not to save on subsidies aimed at families, children and maintaining your life in rural development. I find this important, and I think that there should always be funds in the budget for these objectives. And finally, if you want to fill the budget, if you want to have foreign investments, if you want our country to develop the mortes to give the funds needed and to the judiciary, you have to prevent the judiciary from manipulating how it is today. Today, the judiciary is ineffective, the DORH and the repressive apparatus are pointing in the wrong direction, not fulfilling their obligation, and then you can't count on having a foreign investor. If there is no justice for a small man in a small case, if there is no legal certainty, you will simply not be able to realise your budget. In short, we consider the budget to be proactive, we believe that the time will come very soon when you will go and put together and rebalancing, but also future budgets even during the duration of this government that will be more modern and will go in order to remove this great burden of finance that is now on our heads, which you will temporarily refinance under more favourable conditions, but you will likely very soon start looking for solutions on the trail of what Professor Lovrinović said and on the trail of what we have heard can be done in one Czech or some other countries. And it should not be seen from there whether such proposals come seriously from an opposing camp or not, and try to make an alternative approach to state financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22758	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one is the replica of the esteemed colleague Mark Veseligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22759	Thank you, Vice President. Here's colleague Lackovic at the beginning of the presentation you said this was the budget everyone was happy with. Of course, I don't agree with that at all. I can hardly be satisfied with the local units but I think we've debated this enough here today and I've personally several times and colleagues on this side of the assembly have talked about it the same way. I'm going to get to one other thing here, and I can hardly be satisfied with our farmers. In the spring of this year we had an elementary disaster of frost, it was declared in 13 Croatian counties, the damage is 915 million kuna. The budget provides 20 million kuna for this year, and it will be based on some recommendation from the State Commission on the recovery of damages from elementary disasters exclusively to fruit trees. Again this year in the 2017 budget we have 20 million kunas alone again. They suffered the agricultural areas under which the cereals, under which the vineyards, so people reported it, local units, the counties were tasked to collect data, were sent to the state and we provide 20 million kuna alone. Through the amendments, I have made a proposal to raise this amount by at least 20 million kuna so that we can not only raise fruit trees but also other agricultural producers to other people who work and deal with agriculture at least part of the aid. Of course, we're all aware that we can't afford them in this amount because the damage was really terribly large, but that we couldn't secure some larger amount this year and for the next year I just won't believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22760	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22761	Thank you. I agree we'll always find that someone won't be happy. But look at the drought as a natural disaster in Croatia and in all the countries of the world, you see that it happens everywhere. There are insurance companies, and what the state can do should, in my opinion, co-finance that farmers are being provided to a greater extent and that this risk is simply not being taken over by the State. On the other hand, imagine the absurdity that there is drought in Croatia we are one of the richest countries in the world with water. So we have a drought on long-term crops, and on the other hand, the Republic of Hungary is watering even its cornfields, so they're watering corn, and we can't irrigate. So we need a different approach if there are going to be professional people in responsible places, we're going to solve half of these problems and we're not going to have any damage to the drought, are we not going to know that. Because if we want and have a little modern agriculture, we'll have it that way when it's a real elemental disaster, then under number one, farmers who are going to make insurance with certain support from the state should be involved. And what we can't avoid then would be enough of that 20 million kuna, even though I agree with you that for such situations that are happening, you should have sensitivity and help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22762	Thank you. Second replica and esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22763	Dear colleague Lackovic. I listened to your presentations and I like that you call for reason, for arguments, and whether any proposal or amendment from the opposition from this party comes from this representative, etc. Tell me honestly, do you believe that there is such a readiness in the Croatian Parliament for this consolidation of political relations to respect the arguments? That's the first question. And secondly, please, what you think about this idea, Croatia must refinance next year 25 billion bonds, 14 billion are foreign bonds, 11 billion are foreign bonds. Now, please tell me, does it take 14 billion kunas to go to the foreign market to borrow in euro or give our citizens a chance to buy a bond, whether they will buy 14 billion, five because they have foreign currency savings in euro in Croatian banks. And please look at this now, the citizens listen to me why they don't get about 1% if they're asked for and make money on government bonds for the last time in three percent. So let's give our citizens the opportunity to earn instead of keeping their savings at low interest rates and then give them the chance to make money. I see a number of MPs here are looking at me strangely as if I've fallen from Mars, but gentlemen, that's how it is. Because as the minister comes, he goes outside, and I'm going to propose an amendment that no one else can be in charge of the outside unless the Parliament approves it. Do you agree with that? What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22764	Reply to the replica of colleague Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22765	I thank Professor Lovrinović. So your first question was whether to accept... I assure you that during the term of office of this government, you will seriously begin to think, and I believe and use these funds that you have been saying, so primarily here I think in a different way of refinancing and paying off the loans that are pressing us. And that will be for purely pragmatic reasons. All of a sudden, everyone will be ready to get rid of it this way because we can't be in debt out there forever and we can't pay back our duties in this slow way. So there will be major changes, or we will simply come up with a Greek scenario. On the other hand, I also find it unfair and unfair that citizens cannot buy government bonds. Clearly, this is about one concession to banks, given that all those who have their savings if they bought bonds mean they would withdraw deposits from banks. That way the banks have less activity. In order to attract the banks to save again, they would have to make more savings and if they were to give more savings, then the bank would justify it: Yes, but then we also have to give credit to all those who have loans up there. I think it's a mechanism or justification for a mechanism that makes people not entitled to buy government bonds. I believe that anyone who wants and believes in the Croatian state should have the right and opportunity to buy state bonds at least as privates can, individuals do not know on the London Stock Exchange or elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22766	With this debate, colleagues of Lacković, we have exhausted the debate by the clubs and are now moving to individual debates. There are 31 in total. The first is the honourable colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22767	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. A lot of words have already been said today, but here we each look at this budget from our own corner and try to make a contribution to this debate. This is certainly the first budget proposed by the government of the Croatian Democratic Community and the MOST, the first budget of the government and Mr Plenkovic, which sends a clear message that the prime minister himself spoke about today, somewhat the finance minister himself. And what are the basic messages that we should discuss today? Reduce the deficit as one of the important tasks. Increase the absorption of European Union funds. Be socially sensitive and encourage a policy of demographic renewal and positive demographic flows. To respect the needs of all groups in society in different areas. What is very important, and not much of what has been said today is to continue to work on important infrastructure projects especially in the part of the traffic, and this mention certainly may be the most important, to secure the means to start building the Pelješki bridge, finish the bridge Ciovo, airports Split and Dubrovnik, to continue modernising Croatian railways, modernising state roads, state ports and ports of county importance. And you saw it clearly through the divisions of individual ministries. What is very important is the reduction of the share of public debt in GDP. Then the task of this budget is to ensure that the credit commitments are refinanced and, of course, the basic obligation to pay public sector salaries which are likely to increase and possible during the year, and certainly indexed pensions to pensioners. In order to be able to do so, I also state another task, to return to the local self-government all that has been lost through amendments to the Income Tax Act. It is worth 1.3 billion kuna by 6 months as it is clearly written in that second law to be discussed after the budget, the implementation of the state budget. And in order to do so, the planned revenues amounting to 121.6 billion and expenditures amounting to $128.4 billion were planned. The planned GDP increased in 2017 in kunas to 357 billion kuna compared to that in 2016, which amounted to 343 billion kuna. GDP growth is planned at 3.2%. What have we had so far? It's always worth comparing with, I've talked about it a little bit today. We had budgets going on maybe those years where the new government is expected when it comes to continuing some positive trends, and came to say power in the period 2012-2015, we had budgets that were often discussed here, ten times we discussed all their financial documents. And the spending sides of the budget were very interesting so that they could respond here today to a story of wastefulness which is some kind of basic message of opposition to the current budget. In 2014, after three years of GDP decline, the consecutive GDP decline of minus 1.9, and minus 1.7, we had the budget proposed on the spending side of 130 billion kuna with a deficit of 16 billion kuna. Then the SDP explained how we have to do it, how it's good social, developmental and how it's the only possible budget we have to adopt because it can't be different. We haven't adopted it yet, we've entered the excessive deficit procedure that governments have to deal with now that came after the SDP government. Today we have, I say, a budget that plans 128 billion on the spending side and a deficit of 6.8 billion kuna. Such a situation is unacceptable to the Social Democratic Party. And everything we heard today about it was going in that part that they were being afraid of something, that it wasn't going to be like that, so why we were planning something, why we were planning such expenses, why or how we were going to make it all happen. However, when we compare that time, when you have a decline, a consecutive decline in GDP and such a budget compared to where you have 2 years of GDP growth with positive movements, it is certainly more likely that this one will be achieved in this form than it was likely to be in 2014. We saw that the SDP completely turned its policy and in 2015 proposed a completely different budget than what we had in 2014. When we look at parts or divisions, it's clear, I'm always most interested in the Ministry of Defence, we have an increase of €200 million, and then we have the Ministry of Regional Development, which in 2015 had a total of €484 million. In 2016 this achievement will be 876 million kuna or only twice as much. In 2017 it grew almost to 972 million kuna. There are clear messages where we want to achieve the greatest activities. Only the division of regional development is 3 times larger than in 2015. We have the EU Project Co-financing Fund, an interesting item, which is often referred to by the former Deputy Prime Minister as something that is very good and they will implement. You had a performance in 2015. 594 thousand kunas in the EU Project Co-financing Fund, 594 thousand kuna. 2016 in that part you have a performance of 175 million kuna planned in 2017. 150 million kuna. The increase index in 2016 compared to 2015 is only 30 thousand, 30 thousand times higher. Do we understand what we are talking about and whether we need EU preparations for projects and money that can finance it in order to absorb these 11 billion that we are talking about today? It returns to the fund division and the Regional Development Fund with 45 million kunas of possible assistance. We have a fund for the development of the mountain-mounted area of 30 million kuna. Today we heard that the SDP will invest amendments in the part of island development as if they hadn't read the budget itself. 2015, sorry 2016. we have a 151 kuna achievement, 2017. 131 million. Where the difference from 20 million kuna is in island development. The CEP 4 loans and EIB loan 3, the biggest error of the SDP government, the elimination of the opportunities provided by EIB 3 loan, which should have been made possible on the islands and in the coast on dozens of new infrastructure projects. It was a favourable interest, it was possible to co-finance project documentation for project preparation, however, the SDP came and abolished it. What is very important and what we have announced will be returned to the Department of the Islands in the formation of the Ministry of Regional Development. Where's the increased part? For road transport, water supply, economy and capital aid to Croatian islands i.e. all of the island's local self-government. As for the division of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, we have a growth of 5 billion and 915 million kuna to 6 billion and 982 million kuna. Where do you see the increase? Only in part of EU funding funds. It's about the projects I was talking about. To begin the construction of the Pelješko bridge, the end of the bridge Ciovo, the bypass of Vodice behind the air-hands of Split and Dubrovnik. For the railways we have planned a billion and a half kuna plus that part that goes from the funds especially regarding the Dugo Selo stock – Križevci which is finally after several years and various peripeti finally agreed. We have three years to spend the amount at our disposal of 250m euros of grants. When we discussed this year and the first budget of the former government we heard in the work of the shipping lines so the islanders will be left without lines, who will finance it, will collect maps etc., it was seen that they were all transported from land to the island and vice versa, that so far in this year Jadrolini has achieved the greatest traffic ever in the history of the existence of over 11 million vehicles and that they simply all got what they were supposed to be and all the fears that SDP expressed were denied throughout the year. We have a huge increase in the part of co-financing of the ports of county importance. We have an increase from 23 million to 45 million and 500 thousand kuna. We want to build more missing capacity for all lines, i.e. ferry and ships that sail into ports on islands and on land. And as for public debt, we heard great fears today. Just some facts, Japan 238% of GDP, German public debt 2 thousand 60 billion euros. I think public debt has all developed countries. It's a clear message, we want to reduce, it's not a positive thing, but we want to work actively on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22768	Thank you. We have four replicas, the first respected colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22769	Dear Representative Boris, first of all, I acknowledge that you are one of the few members of the HDZ who attends the sessions most often and participates actively. ... Yeah, I'm sure it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But let's keep going. You stated in the end some argument which is related to, I speak among HDZ members in general, you cited an argument of public debt in Japan, Germany etc.. Look, I know a lot about this, this public debt in Japan and Germany has nothing to do with our public debt, and it is not recommended to compare it at all because production capacity and power and, the economies of Germany and Japan are exportable and productive so that this debt does not do anything to them. But one more thing to suggest, 95, 97% of Japan's public debt is you know in which currency? In yen and we have 60% homework and well, something's changed now. You see, that's why I was saying today that we need to turn hard to the kuna, our currency and everything else. But I would ask you something else in the previous composition means this House and the HDZ leadership you didn't have the strength to reduce interest, to refinance public debt, to change your relationship with the CNB. And that was clear. I am a witness here that some of the top HDZ officials have obstructed such efforts. Does HDZ now have the strength to implement the restructuring process so that this interest rate of $11.5 billion does not destroy us and will you personally stimulate such a single action?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22770	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22771	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrinović, I didn't speak in public debt, it's just at the end of the mention because today there was one debate in terms, and what you're doing so our public debt flies to heaven, probably all other countries don't have it except us. It's kind of a fear of people and it's justifiable, maybe justifiable. But we've had a story that's been going on and on our side for the past few years where we've had a strong public debt growth, where we've grown by 85 billion to worse and in the state budget itself. You couldn't find an important project that might have financed something and something that would have been done with it. It was a clean consumption, which is why 16 billion kuna deficits were acceptable to them even though they were then warned of doing something they should not do. That's why they brought us into the excessive deficit procedure. And other countries are probably saying they have a public debt as they believe to ensure the sustainability of their economy and that they can function with it. Our goal is to reduce this public debt and this is what this budget offers. But the SDP is against it, that's what I'm talking about. They do not want to support it, they supported the increase because it was probably the only way they experienced politics. And if Japan has 238% of its GDP or Greece 189 or Italy 132%, if the EU average is 92%, if we're the 17th, I'm just saying some kind of relationship, if Germany owes 2060 billion and America 14 thousand billion dollars, that's clearly what they can bring out. And it's not negligible. But of course, this is certainly the budget as well as this previous one that we end up with for 2016 that goes with the aim of reducing this public debt. The SDP doesn't support that. And they tell us on one side to raise the wages, and here you save. Well, it's not easy to reconcile such unworthy...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22772	Thank you, fellow Boric. Apparently, flowers don't bloom in Japan either. Let's move on, dear colleague Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22773	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, here I would give up my replica because I really have nothing to say for all of what my colleague Boric has explained to us from all micro to all of the macro aspects of the Croatian economy. There's really no word for it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22774	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22775	My colleague, Greece, and I accept that because you have convinced us for four years that even a fall can be growth. And that's something we have to support. Of course we didn't support it that way. So you can't accept this growth now because it means a fall for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22776	Thank you. The third replica is a distinguished colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22777	I will not give up on my colleague Boric, that I was one of those who criticised your 2016 budget and held responsible for saying that in that budget you cut the islands by reducing the important resources for the island's water supply and co-financing of the high-speed maritime lines. And if I was the management of speeches and the fact in one part that you were correcting injustice in a rebalancing way, then it proved that the resources you were planning were not enough for all the needs of our islanders and islanders and further in favour of the fact that I was right and the fact that you are now increasing these funds in this budget proposal. So why are you increasing funds if those funds, as you claim, were ideal, were sufficient, etc. I continue to argue that these allocations will not be sufficient for the depopulation of our islands or for solving the key problems our islanders face. And please don't convince our islanders that they're phenomenally living just that they're simply not aware.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22778	Reply to the replica of Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22779	Now, the islanders have sent me a message saying that the worst period of their lives has been spent during the SDP and that it's written unrepeated, it's never been written again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22780	Just a little bit, please. You invited your colleague Maras today during the morning to the citizens, so he is likely to be invited by his colleague, Boric. You met them on the street. There you go. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22781	What's the problem? Look, during your government, you cut off their island administration, cut their funds, cut the loan, and those were the measures that you said worked very well. So whatever's in your calculations is simply denying you as you're denied the amount that we've increased something. We're in a rebalancing of 310 million executions and 310 million for this year. Only because there was no agreement with shipowners regarding fuel prices and possible savings that could have occurred in the sector. But of course you can't know that, those who come from the island know that. And I think we're on the right track that just through all the measures we're going to take through this budget we're going to allow them to meet those needs and live cheaper in terms of water supply of road transport, subsidies to the economics through the development of the island product project through the possibilities to build non-existent infrastructure. We have an increase in the capital aid part and I don't think you've abolished that EP 3 loan that Minister Linic abolished would have another 50 million kuna available. However, you used an advance of 7 million euros and then spent it on 10 projects and said you didn't need it anymore. I think it was incorrect and it was not useful for Croatian islands and islanders living on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22782	And the fourth replica of distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, seems to me that you've counted the good side of this budget, all the increases, and I'm glad you mentioned the Croatian defenders who actually make 200 million kuna more in this budget and who will certainly be pleased with this budget. However, I think you missed the Ministry of Defence, which has 363 million kunas more or 9% higher than in the last year, and that is the first trend when Croatian armed forces get a certain increase to go towards those NATO standards. However, I am concerned that you have missed the amendment that has arrived by a former minister who plans to increase the budget by 5 billion kuna at the position of the Ministry of Defence and explains it with the following: The Croatian Ministry of Defence has been announcing for almost a year the adoption of a new full and comprehensive Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Family Members, which will address all the multi-annual accumulated problems that have plagued Croatian defenders and members of their families, the granting of the status of Croatian defenders to Croatian members of HVO, armed provisions of National Protection and their equalization with members of HV, MUP, HOS, the opening of the right to recognise the status of those affected by PTSDs and give them the disabled and then pensions and all that the new law allows them. It costs a lot, so let these five billion kunas be for the peaceful beginning of this dream. These 5 billion kunas will be taken from our most endangered citizens, the users of social assistance because they have little and not enough for a normal life anyway, but that's what the former HDZ minister of social policy said, telling them to die. These are words written by the former Croatian Defence Minister and I am appalled by this amendment that arrived in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22784	Before we respond to the replica, we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22785	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Djakic, injured Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which clearly defines what the replica is. The replica is used to respond to the presentation of speakers in this case by Mr. Boric. A colleague, Djakic, abused the Institute of Replica by presenting in fact one of the amendments. It is not the subject of today's session, and I do not know what is false in this fact that your former minister, Mrs Juretic, told citizens or social cases to die. It's a fact, and I don't know what we're surprised at.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22786	I estimate there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask my colleague, Boric, to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22787	A colleague, Djakic. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Gordan Jandrokovic: I ask you to calm our passions and continue the debate.]] My colleague Djakic, what do you wonder? This is your reformed SDP, Bernardic's SDP, which I think Mr Matic has become a member of the presidency. They will probably talk there in this presidency as they spoke to his colleagues if you remember when they were texting Croatian defenders a variety of messages from "Busovaco hello", and all the more. So that's the SDP's relationship to that group. And when you social cases, people who are disabled, tell the entire social population to die, it's the most terrifying thing anyone can say in this house, in this assembly. When you put that on paper as an amendment to remove 5 billion in the Department of Social Services and leave 90 million, that's even worse than that. And what else is the worst? To raise a colleague and defend it, it's even worse to get her up and she thinks it's something that needs to be respected and discussed and accepted and that's normal for them. And what should we say about that? Keep reforming. It'll take you another 20 years at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22788	I ask you, just a little while, colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, if you are dissatisfied with what your colleague Boric said you have different institutes defined by the Rules of Procedure and please use them. Don't shout and don't work without the need to make a lot of noise in the assembly. Comrade Maras, it's your turn, second individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is easy to speak after the heir to Andrija Hebrang who told that famous sentence that he is not lying, but sometimes does not tell the truth. Boric really sometimes, not sometimes, but very often doesn't tell the truth, and now he's shown it with this message. But let's go back to the topic here on the agenda and which our citizens are now following through small screens and what's most important to them. The most important thing is that at this point we have a budget ahead of us which clearly paints the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which speaks to whom it is directed, which concerns, which priorities, whether it was lied in the pre-election campaign, whether some announcements from the pre-election campaign will be made, whether the Government behaves rationally or not, and these are the topics that are most important to me and that our citizens expect to hear from us. What's important, ladies and gentlemen, is that this budget as our prime minister said, not that it's not quality and rational, it's unquality and irrational. So the exact opposite of what our prime minister said by reading here with paper without a grain of emotion, without a grain of some will to convince us what he's saying, without in any way showing this Parliament and Croatian citizens that he cares. Because after an hour a man and more than 70% of the Croatian government left, I said he went to a turkey with mills in Trakoscan. That's much more important to him. He's probably at home now resting and watching this session instead of trying to convince us here about his thesis and telling us that this budget is quality and rational because of that, that and that reason. And I'll tell you why I think he's unskilled and irrational. We after a long series of years of rational policy when we arrived in 2011 and found a deficit of 25 billion kuna consolidated when everything combined and came to 7.8 billion kuna in 2015. So that's one period of four years of rational behavior. We are now experiencing a budget that is compared to 2015. Nine billion kunas spent higher, or higher. Now, you tell me whether the policy of two thousand years, 2006, the seventh, fifth, when HDZ Ivo Sanader, Mr. Schucker who is not here, is repeated, but we all remember those thesis that we are actually doing well and that nothing will happen and that we can increase expenditures. Is that same policy repeated? I'm not going to suggest Mr. Maric learned from Mr. Shuker. Maybe it's a coincidence. Perhaps this is why Mr. Maric then watched Mr. Shuker do this and learn certain lessons from his activities. We remember in 2008 a huge budget of over 120 billion kuna expenditures when they told us there would be no crisis all right, don't worry and then came after that in 2009. The same thing is happening right now. Nine billion kunas more than it was in 2015. And when you look at which ministries they got. A very clear message for Croatian citizens, pensioners. Look at the Ministry of Pensions, there's no increase. Retired all the same as before, there will be no special pension adjustment. The peace will continue to be below 40% of the average salary. On the other hand, defense 10% increase. We're still boasting about that. Like we're gonna get, I don't know planes or anything. Look, we need to know in Croatia what our priorities are, whether our priorities are our citizens, pensioners, employed with minimum wage. And while Mr. Mesic is smiling here while I'm talking about those who have the least, because he doesn't miss anything, he's having fun here, enjoying himself while people watch who have two, two and a half thousand kuna pensions. He finds this ridiculous and thinks it's unnecessary to speak at all. But Mr. Mesic, I will speak the same way. Yes, if you've increased, here's the man still laughing. Unbelievable! Please be serious about the pensioners and those who have nothing. It's HDZ. So when we talk about those who have two, two and a half thousand kunas, they laugh. Here's Mr. Djakic jumping on the chair. Unbelievable! When we talk about these people, not that it's not funny, it's sad that you refused to raise the minimum wage. That explains it to people. Five hundred kunas were your minimum wage hard to raise. You refused to have the opportunity to allow pensioners to coordinate their pension, to exceed 40% of the average salary. That's what you tell people, that's what they want to know. They're not interested in new planes, new weapons, NATO. We in NATO have made commitments, we will respect them but we here have to speak about why these 9 billion kunas or 4 billion kunas when EU funds are rejected, which is why we didn't invest in people. Why didn't we invest in education? Today, we heard from colleagues Jovanovic very closely that there is no investment and increase of funds and money in the Ministry of Education at all. That's what our people are interested in, not 20 sentences written on the speech of our prime minister, which he reads and then rips at turkeys and mills. But he didn't forget to increase the budget of the Prime Minister's Office from 8 to 12 million kuna. It's not gonna save. 24% higher material expenditures, wages, everything that goes. That's not the problem. That's where you can go. Almost 50% of the prime minister's budget is higher than it was last year. And that's what we need to talk about here. And that's why I said today not only does Shucker's economic policy continue, but it seems to me that Sanader's policy is returning. Because here we heard today the prime minister giving a lesson in the media, you win the election, so put the budget together. Well, we remember, ladies and gentlemen, about ten years ago sitting here as the former prime minister acted himself sufficiently, totally insensitive and taught lessons to all of us. I'm afraid, I'm afraid of today's behavior that our prime minister tends to move in that direction. And I'd tell him to enjoy himself while he can, but the people on the road we meet don't enjoy each day and they'll tell him very soon what they think of him. And that's why this government stimulates those who have the most, helps those who have the most, doesn't invest in our pensioners and doesn't invest in our employees. And the easiest thing to say, as our prime minister said, is all demagogy, I don't care at all. You say whatever you want, it's a demagogue, and I know because I've won the election and I can do whatever I want. And when you win the election, you do what you want. That's what he said today. This is not how no one should behave, and when you win elections, you should be humble and work for those who chose you. And therefore, please, we will submit a lot of amendments, please colleagues and colleagues from HDZ especially for projects of halls, schools, public private partnerships that I will personally bear to support and show that possible gentlemen who are in power, owners do not behave like Franjo Tahi, behave as appropriate. Serve your people. And don't laugh when we talk about pensioners and those who have the least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22790	I agree we can't, but I'm asking you to warn your colleagues who laughed even more at you than your HDZ colleagues. So, please, now the first replica of the esteemed colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22791	Dear colleague Maras, you've given a vehemently deeply emotional speech, consumed by emotions, but unfortunately without any content. So what else can a man do than smile? He probably didn't go to the Prime Minister in Trakoscan, maybe he went to Las Vegas, it was a tradition in that government where you sat at the expense of taxpayers, and then he pulled a stand there to get a picture of himself being late for the same fair he was going to. He's probably stuck in the casino. Dear colleague Maras, that kind of laughter has not yet begun to be presented in this assembly. Those fantastic, emotional performances where you and your character are standing on TV and behind you are wheels of this kind of innovation we are not yet able to make in the assembly. Well, you didn't mention a single number in the whole speech. Just people stopping you on the street. Where? In Las Vegas, maybe, you were arguing about the chips. And then now you resent it because someone went to Thrace. So when did Prime Minister Milanovic sit until the end of the budget in the Parliament? What are you talking about? What are you talking about? Well, of course I was smiling. I realized why you colleagues are Pernar's most likable advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22792	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22793	My colleague Mesic, when you measure the content of someone's speech and when it is relevant, I will be concerned. Thank God it's not like that. You're not the unit of measurement for who's what content says you're the unit of measurement for some other stuff. But out of courtesy, I won't say that. That's probably what Mirjana Sanader knows most about what you're a unit of measurement. So about who's talking and who's doing who's doing it and who's talking about it, I'll send you a stenogram and then read it because I believe you haven't read much smarter things anyway. And I'll tell you one more thing. Look at the implementation of EU projects in 2016, you have an article in the Morning List yesterday when Minister Maras was not and did not conduct these competitions and did not have ads like you said on TV. And then ask your government not this one but a month ago, which is why it wasn't as much as it was spent in 2015, but not as much as a fifth. That should concern you, not whether Maras was on the commercial or not. Because when Maras was on the commercial, it wasn't repeated, it was being spent much more and the entrepreneurs know it. And you can laugh as much as you want, unlike you, no one brought me to politics. No, Dr. Mirjana knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22794	L.A. anything? Is that the second time? L.A. don't be anything? Another replica of distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22795	Mr. Vice President. Well, my replica is going to try to illustrate to Mr. Maras what the budget really says, and why I laughed, it's probably going to come to a conclusion after my presentation. Compensation to citizens and households amounting to 46.1 billion kuna or an increase of 957 million kuna. There are pensions, pension incomes that increase by 578 million kuna, additional maternity permits, equipment for a newborn child, an increase of 157 million kuna, a measure of increasing financial support during the use of maternity leave, expenditure under the new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders 151 million kuna. Other spending 6.3 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22796	Comrade Djakic, one second please. Comrade Pernar, please don't do this. It's really not right. It's not the usual. I don't think it's right to take a photo here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22797	So, other expenditures are 6.3 billion kuna or an increase of 722 million kuna. Rural development measures, operational competitiveness programme cohesion are priority links and mobility, development of human potential efficiency, operational food programme and other material assistance. Costs to purchase non-financial assets increase from 645 million kuna. And in all the items of the spending party which is spoken of as increases, it is clearly spoken about what they are related to and where they will be spent. So the subsidies, the aids that are defined, everything is clearly written in the budget just needs to be read. Why so much doubt, why so much anger, why so much obstruction and why indeed such demagogue and combined performances in this House It seems to me that my laughter has caused [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Your performance that looked like a comedy in the style of the late Fadil Hadzic. [[Upadica Jandroković: Thank you, colleague Djakić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22798	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22799	I didn't hear, I didn't understand half of what you said, but what I understood, I'll answer you. You mentioned some numbers and you mentioned a hundred and a few million kunas for retirement. I don't know if you're aware that there are over a million and 200 thousand pensioners in Croatia, so now if you take 100 kunas and divide it, that's 100 kunas per year for each divided into 12, that's 8 kuna per month. Well, now if you think, Mr. Djakic, and all those who watch us that 8 kuna is a monthly pension increase for our pensioners per pensioner, it is enough for each pensioner, and that illustrates the concerns of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for our pensioners, then I can only tell you that you are wrong because that is not enough. Because on the other hand, you don't treat another population the same way. The population that makes tens of thousands of kunas you have allowed to have three, four, five thousand kunas a month more. The decomposition of Croatian society has never been greater than it is now. It was never bigger, nor when it was the hardest for us, when the crisis was the biggest, that decomposition wasn't as big as it is now. Eight kunas for the pensioners, and four thousand kunas or five who have 50,000 kunas. And that's what I'm talking about here, and that's what it's important to tell our citizens that they hear and understand. And it's nothing funny and it's not demagogy, and I'm going to repeat it for as long as it takes. I will not be discouraged by your disdain or ridicule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22800	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22801	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleague Maras. I answered for a reason just to correct you, I don't know, I think Mr. Mesic said you didn't mention a single number. Now you've replicated Mr. Djakic again incorrectly. Mr. Maric made it very clear that pensions will increase in the following year about 600 million kuna. It's about the pensioner. I think most of these pensioners know very well that the increase in defence accounts is not a bad thing for the Croatian state and that defence or military must be able to respond to potential threats from the Croatian state. These people have had a lot of experience, our pensioners, and they will surely understand why the defence budget must be increased after a number of years when it's just shrinking. I think we saw that today our army is in pretty poor shape and we just have to start fixing it. As far as minimum wage is concerned, I'll give you the information. During your reign from 2012 until 2015, the minimum wage increased by 215 kuna and 55 lipa. Last year alone, the minimum wage increased by 90 kuna, with an increase of 5 per cent or 156 kuna for 2017, a total of 245 kuna and 45 June. So 30 kunas more than you've raised that minimum wage in four years. So don't force cheap demagogy, and now suddenly after four years of your authority, you remember that you are Social Democrats. So why didn't you show it from 2012 to 2015 when you were in power with Mr. Milanovic, your very leader who would, when you spoke of haughtiness The current prime minister, I think, could be called "one Milanovic". [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22802	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22803	You, Mr. Felak, either you don't understand or you don't want to understand. So in 2011, the situation was one, the 2016 situation was another. In 2011, the GDP growth situation was 0 and the loss in two years was 11.12% cumulative. The deficit in the budget is 25 billion kuna. It's not the same. They're not the same categories.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22804	Comrade Maras, I'm sorry. Comrade Pernar, I don't think what you're really doing is correct. I mean, people sit here and it's not fair for you to film them while they, I don't know. It's being recorded yes, but it's official recording, and it's really not the usual for us to use a camera in the assembly and take pictures of other agents. I don't think that's really correct. I'm asking you not to do that. Yeah, please really, here, ask before you start taking pictures, ask if they want to take pictures.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22805	If I can just add it up. This is a public space, the citizens of the Republic are watching us at all times, I don't see any problem shooting whoever they want. And that on the other hand you can see who's here, who's not, who's discussing who's not discussing who. It's no problem, but I respect the chairman for him to set the rules. Let me get back to that subject. You've frozen Mr. Felak, I don't know if you've been in HDZ like Mr. Plenkovic since 2010, or have you arrived early? You've probably arrived early, Mr. Plenkovic's quite a bit... Who is it, Mr. Plenkovic is in HDZ until I was even born. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you, I agree, that was when it was called the Union of Communists of Croatia when I was born. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's true, I was born in '74. Then you were in the SKH and you just kept going after the '90s, blowing on the same ones. So if you're in HDZ before 2010, then that means you've frozen the minimum wage to take her 4, 5 years, I'm asking you to give me another minute to tell me what I thought you were doing here not only Pernar but also you show along with him. [[Intruder Jandroković: A can but.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22806	No, I don't do the show, my colleague Pernar came to a place where it's not appropriate for a representative to come, I asked him to leave. He went there now to the HDZ counseling club. Now you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22807	I have absolutely no problem with anything but to give people the opportunity to speak It means what I wanted to say in 2007, '08, '09. And in the '10s, the minimum wage was frozen. [[/Intruder Jandroković: Yes, I agree. Here you go.]] We came into a situation where there were 25 billion kuna deficits, when GDP fell 12% and in 4 years we did what we could do, which you now said you did in 2 years when GDP grew 5%. Now we ask you to join the initiative to make for our people for 50,000 families not to raise their salary of 120 kuna but to raise them 300 kuna. What's wrong with that? Why can't we do it together? Is that a question of vanity when you could, when we could? There's an open offer on the table not only for you, but for your colleagues at the Most, they decide, they're the majority. If they support that amendment, that bill of ours will be passed. And on that side Okay, thank you very much. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Thank you colleague Maras, I gave you a minute more I think it's fair.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22808	Please. The fourth replica, dear colleague Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22809	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said in your debate that you would submit amendments. Well, I sincerely hope you'll submit amendments that will be serious. Because we just got on the bench of amendments from your colleagues who suggest changes in the budget in a way that with one item where at this moment there are 20 million kunas, if we were to adopt these amendments that we got that item would go to minus 15 million kuna. In addition, it is an item where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken over some obligations by contract. When it suits you, you mention that something has been taken over even though it's not a contract. We heard through the debate that it wasn't even the government that took over it, but someone at some point of good faith helped someone, you mention it as a commitment that was made by the government and that all governments must respect. And on the other hand, you are proposing amendments to which the government has taken some of the commitments you bring to a minus 15 million kuna, and you are justifying that you have a good will to help us in areas that are less developed than some others. Well, don't help us like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22810	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22811	Thank you very much, Mr. Totgergeli, honestly from this explanation of yours, I have not been able to understand because you have not mentioned any amendment to any item or item of any particular matter, but I assume that since you are from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, it is the projects of a public-private partnership which the County and the Ministry of Science and Education have signed during the past government, where 12 projects were carried out, not for Mr. Totgergeli, for Mr. Maras, or for someone third, but for the citizens of your county. I'm really surprised at you and everyone who, and who is looking at us here today, means you're from the Grubish Field and you're opposed to, say, being in Bjelovar, in Dežanovac, in Daruvar, in Kapela, to build new schools in all these places. Tomorrow, when you go to a market in Bjelovar or pass your county, explain to people why you are against it, personally. I know Minister Maric has his own policy but you're a representative of these people, so it's not for me or for you, it's for your fellow citizens. Why are you against it, against those 12 projects? If 21, excuse me, 12 buildings worth more than 200 million kuna were built in the Bjelovar-Belogorje County where our children would learn sports, where they would have better infrastructure education, which is why the representative from that county is even from HDZ against it? Did you see any of that conspiracy that someone was gonna make some money? ... Oh, Mr. Totgergeli, come on, consult with the citizens in these places I told you, whether they want it or not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're their representative. You are not a representative of Plenkovic and Maric, you are a representative of the citizens of Bjelovar-Bilogor County and you act as if you don't care about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22812	He knows Mr. Totgergeli isn't the chapel, he's the chapel, he's the accent. Right? The last replica is the esteemed colleague Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22813	Comrade Maras, this morning your party's president said that this budget is wasteful and at the same time yesterday you propose to raise minimum wages above real opportunities and you are announcing amendments to build and translate new sports halls and schools. Okay, you have the right to do that, but you need to deal with yourself whatever you want. Because the increase in the minimum wage must come from either the budget or the economy that is convulsing under fiscal and parafiscal burdens. You are opposed to increasing the defence budget, you know that Croatia is a NATO member, that the NATO member's obligation is to equate 2% of GDP and the defence budget is only 1.23% now. And that's not even the most important problem. The most important problem is the more complicated situation in the world and in the region that requires Croatia's defence readiness. You are unfortunately so legitimately legitimate as a worthy successor of your political predecessors who... attacks on Croatia, disarmed Croatia by handing over weapons of territorial defense. And to tell Mr. Felak, the Croatian Army is not in a poor state, perhaps the weapon is not the most modern, but "The fight is not a bright weapon, but a battle beats the heart into a hero."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22814	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22815	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubic, a few facts. First, minimum wages are not paid out of the budget. Fortunately, the state budget, fortunately for officials and subsistence, has no minimum wage within itself, for the public sector people the minimum wage is not worthy of life, the real sector pardons that minimum wage is not worthy of life. So it has nothing to do with the budget, nor would it burden one kuna budget. On the other hand, I have the right to say the priorities that matter to me. I care about pensioners, officials, I care about our children's education, our young people's education. It's more important to me than the new flu, it's more important to me. And why wouldn't I be able to say that here as a political attitude? And on the other hand, it's so low for me to impute my stranger that we were arming someone. Look, or disarm, look, the late President Tudjman is for such as you were not a statesman, sir. He knew what Ivica Racan had done for the Republic of Croatia and he appreciated it. That's more important to me than you think. That's all I'm gonna tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22816	We've exhausted the replicas with this. And we move on to the next individual debate that's a distinguished colleague of Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22817	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am highly honored that there is also Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic, but also particularly the loving head of the Treasury Ivana Jakir Bajo, who, as Assistant Minister, is likely to be very important for this debate on health and state budget and how it is contained. I'd just like to say a few notes, first of all on today, and I see that this continued on earlier practice in this government's schedule, it's quite indicative, we see that the Minister of Health is not only the last one in the benches but is actually on the spare bench, even in the same lines with the rest of the government. And this is also what the Prime Minister's attitude towards the Minister of Health also refers to the money schedule within the state budget itself because we see that I am extremely sad actually seeing that there has been an increase in agriculture, and in transport, and in almost all other restaurants but unfortunately in health I see no growth except in additional funding through European funds. So not from the central state, but from other sources. During today's debate from many other MPs, there were a lot of mentions of health care and health funding, some accurate, incorrect data, and would only briefly refer to the past period to give an introduction de facto and a better understanding of what I want to tell you about the current budget. In fact, on 31.21.2014, the last day within the State Treasury for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute reached HZZO debt and all health institutions was at an altitude of 2.8 billion kuna and payment deadlines for suppliers were around 289 days. After a year of operating outside the Treasury, the debt decreased by 300 million kuna to 2.5 billion with a positive trend and payment deadlines reduced to 140 days to suppliers. This is what contained everything in this business and the way it was expressed is best seen in the documents that went during the European Semester according to the European Commission and in the form of a document called the National Reform Plan, a reform plan for 2015 where we had an ambitious plan in order to bring down the deadlines for the healthcare system within the legal deadlines to be defined by the Financial Business Act and the pre-accession settlement on the 60-day deadlines, and even more internally, we were even more ambitious to cut those deadlines even shorter in order to get even better results from suppliers. In a document according to the European Semester in the National Reform Programme for 2015, the new prime minister of the new HDZ-MOST government, Tim Oreshkovic, in the document, was very grateful for the procedures in health reform and health financing in 2015. This is ironic since Minister Nakic has taken all the measures we have put in place for financial control within hospitals, the new model of hospital contracts, all related to primary health care reforms, all related to the monitoring and control of financial flows in the health care of Minister Nakic has abolished them all and what has resulted? We see a debt explosion in 2016. The state budget documentation in this year says that in the first 9 months of 2016, debt in health has increased by 1 billion kuna, and since it is the first nine months of Minister Kujundzic's TV show that he is expected to meet the end of the year with a total debt of 4 billion kuna and information from the Employers' Association that payment deadlines towards suppliers have increased to 400 days. Thus, a catastrophic year for health care in financial and management terms. What should also be pointed out is that all this time we have a legal solution that has been established and permanent since 2013 – the Health Protection Act, the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, which imposes the question when asked, and who is responsible for those debts, so that the de facto health legislation cannot be blamed either by Minister Nakic or by the future of Minister Kujundzic for the resulting debt because his obligation as a resolution minister for his part-round work cannot be rejected by the patient for the treatment because the central state has failed to fulfil its obligations. For example, Articles 72 and 82. Mandatory health insurance laws define central government obligations. This is also in the documentation from, written by the Ministry of Finance for the draft budget for 2017 and the projection for the eighteenth and nineteenth talks about central government commitments to those who do not pay contributions from all other activities. And that, unfortunately, is absolutely underrated in this budget as a material value. In fact, here we see in the state budget is for this population who do not pay contributions and everyone else whose central state has to pay the cost that estimates are worth 2.5 billion kuna, and all the calculations of the professional services of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are talking about the contribution that it is worth just over 4.3 billion and we have this big gap. And now I would like to remind the election promises of the Croatian Democratic Community for these elections. The healthcare system must be a uniform quality throughout Croatia and ensure timely treatment for each patient at an appropriate level of health care. We support a mandatory public health care system aimed at an informed and health-aware patient. Such a health system is universal, equal and has, and everyone has equal opportunities for treatment and services with particular care for the most vulnerable citizens that they do not remain without the quality necessary healthcare. Aware of the importance of this value, we will provide sufficient financial resources for direct healthcare, as the system will need to provide more and more patients every year, and that medicines and medical equipment are becoming more perfect and more successful each year, but also more expensive. I absolutely support it. I sign this particularly left centrist document called the HDZ election programme. I sign every word behind that. However, this government has de facto committed itself through this pre-election promise that the budget will provide 4.3 billion kuna for health care in 2017, and health inflation monitoring will increase the amount in projections by 5% to 8% each year. Unfortunately, the document we have in front of us in the budget shows that it is missing. The transfer of budgets to the Croatian Health Insurance Office is provided in the amount of €2.5 billion, which is not only short of 1.8 billion, but we know in advance that the amount will be provided by law but also by the pre-election promise of the HDZ, but even by 1.38% lower than in 2016. It should also be mentioned when there is Mrs. Dalic, that we have a situation with the Immunological Institute, that the Law on the Conversion of the Immunological Institute d.d. In the Institute of Immunology, the health care institution is obliged to ensure at the position of the Ministry of Economy 67 million kuna that this conversion can be completed. Unfortunately, it's not in the state budget. Health information that otherwise costs only for maintenance and minimum development costs 32 million kuna. In 2017, the same amount was foreseen as in 2016, which is zero kuna. Most of the investments in health care as capital investments in buildings and equipment are reduced from the central state in favour of European funds, which is understandable. However, emergency intervention at buildings and equipment and healthcare facilities has reduced those funds by 60%. If they are from European funds, then it cannot be said of any urgent means. Finally, I will re-quote the election programme of the Croatian Democratic Community in its opening section: "The health system is a common gain for all Croatian citizens. Its role is to ensure the full health security of all citizens and to be a source of health and productivity. Our vision is a modern financial and sustainable health system that provides health care to our citizens and provides quality health care throughout the Republic of Croatia." I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric and Vice-President Dalic and State Treasury Jaker Bajo to fulfill their party's electoral promises to the citizens and meet their legal obligations towards the Health Sector so that Minister Kujundzic will not be prosecuted for violating the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. In the end, I ask, if you insist on not providing enough resources whether citizens can again expect new burdens of increased participation, an increase in the price of a supplementary insurance policy, the introduction of a basket and the collection of above standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22818	I'd like to thank my colleague, Varga. We have three replicas. The first is the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Varga, you were talking about health care and you said that you introduced control and rationality into hospital institutions. I remember well that there was a master plan for general hospitals and clinical hospitals paying out of the state budget, which you were actually his opponent because he was introduced by your predecessor's former minister and you didn't quite agree with it, because he didn't really say anything important or could get any significant results. The recovery of the hospitals that occurred in your time of rationalization has won an almost doubled debt. Sanitated hospitals and in two years the debt increased almost double. I'll say it's not exactly like that, but in our Virovitica-Podravska hospital there was 29 million kuna in debt. 29 million kunas were recovered. It's like a new 34 in two years, like it's evaporated. What kind of control was that? It's probably in a mammal's room, so it's in Vukovar, so it's in all the other hospitals. What happened? What were you controlling? How did you rationalize it, and how did it happen? These 29 million kunas have been deposited for 10 or 11 years, and this has doubled almost twice in two years. I wonder what kind of control it was and rationality when we found that the doctor had 450 hours of overtime. Medical technicians, too. They signed each other, which is absolutely a crime to me. What kind of control was that in the health system? And today's budget gap is correct. She's right, all she has to do is question where the money got out. Are you private? Are debts due to the lack of rationality or ample consumption and irresponsibility of the controller?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22820	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22821	Thank you. Here you have touched three points. I'll touch the master plan first. Here, I was sitting behind this bench when the master plan was made in this esteemed House and I will remind everyone that it was a document adopted in 2015 without a single vote against. De facto he is if we talk about consensus in health, master plan is one of the documents where we have a consensus that he too needs to implement. The tasks for 2015, 16, 17, for 2015 reduced acute beds from 16 and a half thousand to 13 thousand I completed. An increase in the introduction of 400 palitative beds in the Republic of Croatia, the task has been completed. Chronic beds began to be introduced and everything related to the implementation of the day-to-day hospital plan and, unfortunately, that was then entered in 2016. In 2016 it was... activity on the implementation of the master plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He has full support from the SDP that the master plan to be implemented by the HDZ resolution minister. It's not easy, but the main lever, the main lever that he was implementing, was the Restitution Act. In 2016, the Sanitation Act was abolished. So, county institutions gladly took the money and deprived themselves of their past debts, and in return for the reforms they needed to implement, they were left behind. This is not fair to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for my notion that there has been no realisation of the reform measures that were to be taken in hospitals that have received money for recovery. And in the end, where's the debt, where's it gone? A simple explosion of relations with suppliers, from the lack of public procurement in 2016, is seen as a result. The 2015 measures had continued, simply the first to the last institution would have done positive business, not just 67%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22822	Thank you. Next replica of Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22823	Comrade Varg, I'll just keep going, although there are a lot of topics here that could be replicated a lot. I'd like to say, in fact, one of the key moments was when your government actually reduced the health contribution from 15 to 13% and that's where the 2 and a half billion deficits started. I don't want to say here what you might want to say or say that we don't have the money to provide health care for as much money as we invest in health care. No, we'll keep trying. But the fact is, I come here after all of your four governments, after you've passed the laws that say we have to pay over 4 billion dollars a year to HZZO, and the state doesn't do it. So the question is, should these laws continue to be like that – the Health Insurance Act – or do we not have any money for that? Or is the solution, in this way you're trying to solve health care and waiting for us to increase the number of employees so that in this HZZO, some inflow from those who were employed was about 28 billion to make 300 thousand people who were unemployed work? What's a fact, and that's what I've been calling all along for one consensus, you've started with a master plan, this past government and dr. Nakic is on his way because she needed a reform of the hospital system because it is 50% of the system is actually spending the hospital system and will go and will probably do this government. If it doesn't work, she should go next. Every reform of such a large system must be through several governments. But we should also say that we have a good example. We rescheduled the Rijeka hospital, but after that one principal took control of the costs and that hospital is positive. The ones you've recovered, the money's gone, but the people and the principals haven't taken control of the costs and the costs are still being generated. So there's a lot of things. I hope that you, with your contribution during this government, will, with your experience, help to at least sort out this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22824	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22825	Here, I thank you. Here, I'll repeat actually the words of the chairman. God forbid you succeed, we will help from our experience and our knowledge as much as we can and can because it is our job, we have sworn here as parliamentary representatives that we will preserve the Constitution and all the values and all that is good for the Croatian people. But what is particularly important here is to stress that in world scales when we mark the Republic of Croatia on an international stage. According to OECD plates, we spend 7.6% of our GDP on health care. However, in our figures are social transfers, maternity benefits, sickness, the mass of other things that do not belong to health spending is incomparable... with other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When those money slips out, we spend 6.7% of the GDP on health care. It turns out, unfortunately, that we are stingy with ourselves for our own health care system. And now the question is, if you don't spend on health care, the difference is almost 4% of the GDP's lack of money in health care, lack of education, missing here, there, I ask, and then where's the surplus spending? It is very easy that what MP Lovrinovic said was spent on absurdly large interest payments. So when Minister Maric solves those interest rates, then we'll have more money for health care. Oh, God, that's right, I've based all my amendments so much, all my amendments are based on reducing interest rates in the Republic of Croatia. But what it takes really is now a great effort especially from the ruling majority that in 15 where they are in power that they absolutely make pressure because at local level they were the greatest resistance to the execution of the masterplan. The SDP can also influence its county where it is in power, but it cannot where HDZ is in power and MOST and I urge that we work together to implement the mastreplan because citizens deserve it to have safe, quality health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22826	Thank you. Too bad my colleague Lovrinovic isn't in the hall to be recognized in your performance. I'm surprised. Last replica of his colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Varg about the availability of healthcare, so here's the information from the other day, which is not SDP's information, but is with a meeting held at the Attorney General's Office where great concern has been expressed about reducing the availability of health care in remote islands, parts of Slavonia, Like and Dalmatian Zagora where only shows that the projects you started have unfortunately stopped, which is why today the availability of healthcare in Croatia is falling. I will remind you once again that at the end of 2015 debt increased 40% compared to today, while health care availability was reduced. Debts to suppliers have been extended... from 280 to 450 days, waiting lists have been drastically extended. So let's say loud and clear who's to blame? The HDZ and MOST government, led by Prime Minister Oreskovic and Minister Nakic, is guilty, which has reversed Croatia with its experiment and today has a problem with HDZ, which is in power, but unfortunately the biggest problem is with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22828	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22829	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, I also publicly said in the media that not only for health care but for a lot of other things we simply have to draw a line in 2016 and declare it a failed year and start again de facto with new figures, with new basic facts that we should start from. Now they are no longer what Minister Nakic inherited waiting lists that were on 340 days now with a decline, increased within two months to 800 days and is now the starting point for Minister Kujundzic 800 days. It has my support and everything to reduce it back to what they say in the HDZ pre-election programme on understandable and medically acceptable borders. I personally believe that in my understanding of the list of waiting and management in health care I think that we can and have the capacity in Croatia to have a health care system without a waiting list if we have proved it. In KBC Rijeka, when we started the project program plus there were 330 days on the op kiktta, within a very short time nearly two and a half months the waiting list dropped at zero days. It's possible, it's proven. ... KBC Osijek with 200 fell to zero days for de facto gastroscopy, you can't do colonoscopy but in three days because you have to clean the intestines, right. So these were all the measures that we have proven far away that it is possible to do it through management and control systems. It's not just about money, but we've proven that we can reduce debt, we can... the path of health to a positive course, but there are measures we need to do together. The Master had to be implemented, it must be implemented that the daily hospitals to establish, new equipment must be obtained that provides faster and more quality and safer treatment for our patients. It's all unfortunately not seen in this budget. We see in 2017 that he will do similar business as in 2016 unless the minister accepts the amendments as I have suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22830	I'd like to thank my colleague, Varga. Next debate, individual Dr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there have been various discussions in the discussion today about whether or not this SDP will be reformed, whether it will be a new SDP or not, we will see it in the future, but what is certainly HDZ remains the same. And this is seen from this budget, which is typical of the HDZ budget where the state divides by hand and cap, is in debt without the basic settings of the budget being met. And one of the basic budget settings is that it is balanced to be fiscally responsible and to continue what the SDP government started in 2015. The projecting of a 6.4 billion-dollar deficit, Minister Maric, has made it clear that 700m kunas are foreseen for salaries. If we explain that figure a little bit then we can see that 450 million kuna comes from the EU for all those on the EU projects, that somewhere around 150 million kuna is going on an internship, so every year between 150 million and 200 million are increasing wages, not increasing or not, but that much is needed, and de facto there remains 200 million kunas free for all of what this Government is waiting for in 2017. I'm sorry that he hasn't sat down with the unions in the past year and agreed on a famous deal because I think this government is the continuation of that government that was before. Minister Maric was Finance Minister before and after, and it might be different if the negotiating committee instead of Minister Šikic led Minister Maric and that the current negotiating committee instead of Minister Coric was led by the finance minister because the agreement on the basis is an agreement that is extremely difficult for the state but on the other hand is an agreement signed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. A part of that agreement on its definition was also attended by Minister Maric and Minister Dalic. They are therefore well aware of what is written in this budget and what is the obligation of the state to do so. According to what is now heard, an agreement between the union and the government is on the threshold, taught by an experience from before the deal without the signing Monday is not an agreement. I hope that an agreement will be reached because obviously the money needs to be paid, that the wages need to be raised, but don't lie to the devil, it's not in the budget. So there's no 700 million kuna in the budget for salaries if we're going to raise 3 percent 1. 4 and 3 percent 1.11. I note that collective contracts for public services and public services are in force. Our esteemed President of this Parliament, Mr Petrov, extended the basic collective agreement for civil servants and deputies and its validity for a year and thus weakened the negotiating functions, the government's negotiating positions for the new basic collective agreement. Therefore, in these new basic collective agreements, they will need to either negotiate or not to negotiate Santa Clauses and regressions, which means that the next year, on behalf of the Santa Claus and the regression of civil servants and tenants, the state will have to pay an additional 700 to 800 million. So it's not enough 700 million that's de facto not room for salary increases but we need almost a billion and a half kuna next year to raise wages. On the other hand, the agreement has an even more dangerous part for the state's finances themselves, which are so-called. parity, coordination of salaries in the public and state sectors with wages in the economy. I hope that it will be smart enough to agree with the trade unions to define the strengthening of the base for next year, to define the new Law of Payments, which could then, in a certain way, cancel that we do not again find ourselves in wonder in 2018 and say: And we do not know what to do next with the agreement itself. The budget itself again made the same mistake as it was made in the 2016 budget. It wasn't a mistake but on purpose, which is that at the position of active employment policy measures, it was the famous vocational training that allowed over 45 thousand young people to get that year's work experience. 60 percent of them got hired. In that position is left, that number that was before, it's higher by 30 million, now it's 293 million kuna. And then and now I see that this is explained that we will significantly increase the European Union's funds. I note that the criteria for involving young people in the measure of vocational training are much more rigorous than our criteria if we finance them through the budget. In fact, the European Union only finances those up to the age of 25. The European Union shall only finance those who do not have a single day of work. So, all young people who have been waiting this summer or last summer and have an internship in the profession, such an internship that is not in their profession will not be able to benefit from this measure because the European Union is very clear: Young to 25 years without and working day. This is how what happened last year and this year that in June we stopped training and premise that next year we will stop in June with professional training and that a lot of young people will stay out of reach and measure I am sorry because it is a measure that is good, and we have experience this year that there have been problems and I believe it would be good to increase the funds in that position. The third part that matters is the part that ties to pensions. Minister Maric noted there that pension funds are being raised for 576m kuna. Premises that wages will grow somewhere below 2 per cent and there will be no significant increase in the cost of living, however, it is forgotten about the law passed in this House yesterday, which is the Pension Insurance Act where pension coordination is restored, the special pensions return to the way they have been coordinated so far. This means that these pensions are not dependent on the budget but are in line with workers' pensions, which means they will have to increase pensions by 1.1% of this pension according to special regulations, not only defence but also all others, which will additionally burden the pension and pension insurance system. It's conservatively 97 million kuna, but the detailed calculation shows that it's going to be much more and in the projections by 2020 is about 400 million, by 2025 is 800 million kuna, which means that we've burdened our pension system and our budget with somewhere over a billion if we're looking at the long term. And when we talk about minimum wage, I can't tell you about the constant public delusions about the minimum wage being increased by 5 percent. I would also ask Minister Maric or Minister Dalic to answer me. I'm still a doctor who's good with numbers. When we divide 3.120 by 7,729 so the current minimum wage with the current average salary paid in the first nine months, I tried to count, but I never dropped 0.38 percent. I keep falling 40 percent. Therefore, the increase in the minimum wage share in the average salary is not 5% but 2% if we assume that wages will grow 2% then we definitely freeze minimum wage with this, the share of minimum wages in the average salary as the HDZ did and before we cut off and released the minimum wage in 2011. There was no courage for her to go to 45% and in this way the citizens instead of ours who are on the minimal instead of 124 kunas get 286 kunas and have the minimum of being bigger and worthy of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22832	Thank you. We have three replicas. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrssic, this debate of yours, reminds me of that proverb, I can forgive you anything but your success. For me, it was calculant that after eight quarters of GDP growth, the last quarter would grow to me, I think about 2.8 or 2.9, it doesn't matter 2.6. And with the fact that we have accepted a tax reform that, in the opinion of experts, macroeconomicists, analysts, does not, in my opinion, give an additional effect of 0.5, and in the fact that in the year ahead, we know that, based on project documentation, building permits, we can extract projects from the EU funds of around 11 billion kuna. And if the government didn't go with the proposal, that is, the assessment of 3.2 would be calculated for me. And now if the government is doing so, with such GDP growth then this is the revenue of the state budget at my price and me. And if the government tried some manners, some of the other governments as you say it then the deficit should be even smaller and rise 3.2% allows the government to further increase revenues by building tax revenues and revenue from the state budget on GDP growth of 3.2%. So I don't see why you keep trying to tell this government that this is a pre-election, unreal optimistic budget. I think he's real. And to get back to the minimum wage growth of 156 kuna from 3120 is 5%, check the calculator that's exactly 5% in your drum. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22834	Thank you. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22835	First of all, the last, distinguished representative Bačić, 5% of us are talking about increasing the share of minimum wage in the average salary, but this is the only measure that shows how objective the minimum wage is and how much it covers,... I've listened to you neatly, how much it covers the costs and that we can keep workers below the poverty line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tax reform won't bring any kunas to people who are on the minima, or kunas because it's tax-deprived. And on the other hand, most will get about 200 kuna on average if we use all the pay. We're going to give these people, instead of 200 kunas, 124 kunas, half of what we could get. And when we talk about GDP growth itself, God forbid it's like that, but you know it yourself, and all of us that GDP rise, this one is not conditioned by our work itself, that's what you've been saying all along, don't jump into the eyes that our growth, don't jump into our mouths that our GDP is caused by external factors, low oil prices, low interest rates and increased consumption. Based on the increase in the fact that we are now going to have more consumption, that is true, but 3.2 is too optimistic and that we can bet on lunch that this budget will likely experience rebalancing already in June if not in autumn because you have a billion and 400 million deficits in salaries per agreement and basic collective agreements that are not in this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22836	Thank you. The next one is Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrsic, you are absolutely right, not that there is no sign in this budget of respecting the agreement on increasing the base of salary for employees in public and state services at 6%, but there is no guarantee of what the government is through negotiations somehow and we have opportunities through the media to read commits to trade unions, and if I am not wrong, it is 3+3%, i.e. an increase in base by 3% somewhere at the beginning of this year, next year and at the end of the year an additional 3%. And when we look at why I say it, you said well there are no 700 million, there are 400 million and when I look at the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, then what only this government could promise in these negotiations to be credible and what it planned in the budget is an increase of 1.5% because it pays in gross amount in the education system regardless of the basic or medium when we add it up to the new draft budget of 5 billion 857 million kuna, which is in some way an increase of 1.5% compared to the rebalanced amount. So this if the government promises 3% increase in teachers and teachers it simply can't promise because there isn't any in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22838	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22839	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives of the Voice, it is true and we are always warning that there are no billions and 400 million kunas missing in this budget. It took the courage of this government to go maybe another way and that's to admit what was signed and that means that the agreement is realised immediately, it's the former government missed over a year here we've lost time and agreed and then there's a debt that's unnecessary since we have a surplus in the state and that we can then in this way agreements that are signed to realize. But on the other hand, the government would then have great negotiating power, and now the trade unions, given the basic collective agreements for public and state services. We don't see a 3% salary increase in this budget in any ministry. It took courage but I know that the rating agencies are like this and that the rating agencies will immediately and the European Commission will sit by our necks when they see how much the mass of our salaries is growing but they should have done perhaps in the second part on the expenditure side to find those 1 billion and 400 million kunas and implement and close that agreement to the end and then go to the Payments Act where the basis and everything else would solve all the problems that are related to this budget. Obviously, there was no courage or maybe a second scenario for agencies and for the European Commission would be this budget and then within 4 months there would be a rebalancing, when the ratings and everything else would go through where we would face the truth that we were 1 billion and 400 million on salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22840	Thank you. The last replica of counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you said that even in this budget the funds for professional training of young people have not been increased and that you think this is a mistake. It's not a mistake for Mrsic, it's a credible implementation of this government's programme, a program in which he writes we will redefine the measure of vocational training. And now we've seen for a long time in 10 days and how. For the first time in the debate on budget rebalancing, the second time now in the debate on the budget, which is that the funds for the measure of professional training of young people are being reduced and with the ultimate aim of abolishing these measures. And then when we add to it all the taxes on the first real estate, and the second one says that there will be a subsidisation of the first real estate loan, and then I ask Prime Minister Plenkovic how, this morning, who will be covered by that measure, how many people will be in it, how long will this measure last? So we get the answer you know fellow you need to watch the whole package of everything. Because he doesn't know either, because they dropped the bomb out after it was discovered that they were introducing a burden on young families with a real estate tax, and then they hit some kind of measure, and now they're putting an item into the budget and they don't know what they're going to do. And the whole package is essentially the elimination of professional training measures, the taxation of young families, the giving up of 1000 euros for each newborn child, the growth of wages to wealthy managers, what fellow Maras is talking about for days in this House and young families will be paid to grow 50 kuna. It's a measure, these are measures implemented by this government, and then we see that these are consistent and determined anti-demographic policies of this government. So, my colleague Mrsic, nothing here is a mistake, nothing here is an accident, it's all planned and it's all keeping rules, programs and plans of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22842	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22843	Thank you, well-respected representative Djujic. Yes, it is true, this is a typical HDZ budget where HDZ gives a hand and a hat and increases public debt and it will be seen because these 1 billion and 400 million for wages is hidden and will likely be seen, perhaps I misrepresented not in 4 months but in 6 after the election. However, there is something else in the budget that is related to all those who are at the Employment Service who are coming for compensation for losing their job. This fee is obvious either to be reduced or something in the budget is illogical because there were 1 billion and 250 million kuna in that position. Now there's about 800 million kuna, so it's down by almost 40%. It can paint on us, and it is said that these funds will come from EU funds. As far as I know about the unemployed, we cannot use EU funds by either reducing the benefits for the unemployed or giving too much explanation why there are therefore benefits for the unemployed for those who are most needed, who have lost their jobs, which are those that are small anyway. Why is that position being reduced by 40%? Does this mean that unemployment benefits will also be reduced by 40%, as counterpart Djujic said, for all those measures that go towards young people, which are as redefined and heading towards their abolition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22844	Thank you. Next debate, counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the doctor's block we're finishing up Varga, Mrsic, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22846	I was just about to comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22847	Well, then let me say when we've already touched health care, why is healthcare sinking? Well, actually, the answer is very simple, tones, which is why it's given up on recovery measures, tones because the network of public hospitals is not rationalized and toned because it's the most painful thing to pay for costs according to invoices and not according to the services done. And that's what certain hospital directors are afraid of as the devil of the incense as they say. So if we were to start paying for the services we've done, and not the bills that are going to blow up, then this 23 billion might be a lot, a lot more sufficient than it is now. But to move from the budget, to move from the topic of health to the budget but using medical terminology, I like to say that the state budget is like a CT. So if an expert takes a CT into his hand he'll immediately tell if the patient is healthy, if he's sick, if he's sick that he's missing. When an expert takes the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and doesn't know it's about Croatia, he would never suspect it's Croatia's budget, because it seems all wonderful. So it is clear that this budget, a budget that will go very quickly into rebalancing. It does not actually bring any new economic policy to address structural problems. He's written in the same way as the budgets backwards all these years which isn't good. So, one finance minister who has knowledge, which is innovative and entrepreneurship, should have made a whole new budget, a budget that would have crossed with all the current ways of making a budget and offered new economic policies that would mean the development of the Republic of Croatia. You can't see any of that in this budget of ours. He's actually suffering from a disease I'd call Ministers of Finance Endronitis. Why endronitis? So you know how Enron ended up? He ended up in bankruptcy. Why did he end up in bankruptcy? Because of the accounting machinations and deceptions, and that's exactly what the Ministry of Education and Science has in our example, I was talking about this morning. I'll do it again. So it is really an insult to the common sense of all of us to say that the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science is increasing 11%. It is an insult to all those who know little mathematics, who when they look at the figures and see that funds transferred from the Ministry of Finance for decentralised functions to the Ministry of Education and Science, which is therefore no increase but is merely an accounting machination, that in the end when it comes down to figures that are pure figures compared to the budget of the Republic of Croatia that grows 5.8% of the budget for education and science increases 1%. Well, really, it's too much. If it were to grow as the state budget grows, 5.8% could also congratulate the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education and Science, but unfortunately that is not true. It's actually another plagiarism which is actually no surprise given who's running our education and science ministry. So I could still talk, use all 10 minutes but I don't really know who to tell, who listens to what we say, like all the amendments we write, we try to improve the budget. All this will be rejected because the budget that we have received is a colorful balloon, a pre-election balloon that, as well as 2 billion kunas taken from local self-government units, will be used in the pre-election year to reward those who are similar, not those who deserve what is the best example of a public private partnership in the Varazdin County where the mayor of the Croatian People's Party, where the mayor of Koprivnica from the SDP and for them cannot continue the project of a public-private partnership signed in accordance with the European Charter, with the rules of the Ministry of Finance and which both the State Audit and the Ministry of Finance rated as projects that meet all standards and all criteria. Unfortunately, that's true, and that's actually proof of that parole we heard in the campaign credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22848	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First fellow MP Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22849	My colleague Jovanovic, you wondered what to say, if anyone was listening. Here I was listening, so I heard you actually resent this health care system to pay for the favor of the invoice. And I want to inform this Parliament and this Croatian public that in fact no system, no society, no state is able to pay by service as much as health care can spend. So at least when it comes to acute care, I'm not talking about clinical hospitals, it's actually the best system today... So, you diagnosed groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that you colleagues Mrsic and fellow doctors know that, but certainly it is not a model that Croatia should have a paper service, payment by service, paper services.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22850	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22851	... There are various theories, but the theory which is the best and theory actually which is in practice confirmed, which is the most just is paying by service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why should I pay for the bloated invoices of certain hospital directors who are very professional in how to get rid of those invoices. So it's as fake as this budget. Therefore, I don't know why you came to that conclusion, whether you're dealing with a pharmacoeconomic, or if you've sucked it out of your finger.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22852	Thank you. Next replica of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22853	I'm sorry, buddy, that you're defending the rescue story again, because it's a recovery. Resuscitation can be successful if you do something and then you have a result. First of all, your recovery lasted two years, it took one year, according to the decision it took a year. You rescheduled her, but you didn't do anything. You beat up a lot of money, but you didn't get the principals to take control of the costs and do something in those hospitals. And they kept on making debts. So, to get rid of it means to direct the principals how to keep control of the costs of these hospitals. I'm sorry you talk like that about how you pay and what you pay. Two million overtime hours were made in Croatia last year. Do you know that? Do you know that all our healthcare professionals work because they love their jobs, try to maintain that system, and this system is only sustainable by their enormous work and only by reprimand. So it was at the health institution, it's in the health administration and yours and this one now to take control of the costs. I hope we can make it because we have positive examples. Last year it was just KBC River. Already this year, we have 15 percent of institutions that see that cost control can be established and that these hospitals can somehow move towards recovery. The recovery you are constantly calling for is nothing if after that you cover the costs and start without any restructuring. And I'd just like to say, Croatia is in fourth place by... means by virtue of what we invest every dollar we invest in Croatian health care, which service and what amount of services we get. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are very high positioning only at the expense of our healthcare professionals who are very much working that this system that always lacks money survives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22854	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22855	My colleague Linic, no one mentioned healthcare workers. Good for them. I know very well how much they do and what they do and without them these money that we have would be absolutely insufficient for any health care. But the facts are important again. So, in my discussions, I always use the arguments of numbers, the strength of arguments, not the argument of power, but the minister you pushed as well as the entire chamber behind which you stand and whose interests you represent most, not the interests of patients is the reason that today we have 40% more debts, but at the end of 2015, that the waiting lists are drastically extended, that the debts have grown. So it was brought by your Minister Nakic who abolished the rehabilitation of hospitals, which abolished the emergency patient care programme, which abolished programs that were scheduled to resolve oncology patients within 24 to 72 hours. So, everything that was good was lifted, and you kept him a candle. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22856	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is fellow MP Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22857	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Minister of Finance, the Deputy Prime Minister and the representative of the Ministry of Finance. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I'd like to discuss perhaps a little bit introducedly, and then I'd look back at the level of this debate and say a little bit about the way the data from our budget is presented. Today, my former colleagues from the Faculty of Economics in Split have one reunion at 8 o'clock and our esteemed colleague Branko Grčić and I have sent them an image message, and I wrote with that message further that I will arrive at the gathering if the opposition accepts the budget. Of course, a colleague is an ex-student, so no opposition will accept the budget as clear as possible. And I thank you here because it is your duty to give criticism here and thank you for all the constructive criticism. And it's important that they be as many as possible. I think we all have to admit that it's hard on this budget to give criticism and keep this debate at a level. So we've heard all kinds of statements today -- that this forest is a miracle, so we've heard about bears, so we've heard about some flowers that blooms or don't bloom in companies, so we're probably hungry, so we've heard about turkeys with mills -- and here, I'm glad your colleague Varga also mentioned the HDZ programme because we've heard that we don't have them, but that we share beer and sausages at pre-election meetings. Well, I'm glad someone's discussing it constructively. And if we knew there was going to be such a constructive debate, we believe that more colleagues than counterpart Ines Strenje-Linić would be involved in the health debate. What would I like to point out? So we're saying that the budget is too high, that it's dangerous, that it's a contagious mechanism, and that the government has decided that it will be wasteful. And then I get the amendments here, I study them all the time, and everyone wants us to spend even more, and it's not clear from what. Often these amendments are not well written, because I don't know, it says in one section that by implementing better procurement, supply funds for expenditures to some. So they're not well written. And I emphasized one more time at the end of the day some facts and data in the way I see them and hope to contribute to the level of this debate. So the fact is that we have more than cumulative salary increases than it has been in the last three years. We also heard today some allegations that we need to raise standards that if we misjudge a billion-and-a-half estimate from EU funds, that resignations should be made. And that was very strange to me when we know that the draft budget, no, in fact, the budget that was for 2015, not in the 12th month of 2014, but in the 9th month of 2015 before the rebalancing elections were planned to help then from the EU funds at the level of 7 billion kuna and the fullana, so it was wrong for 2 billion kuna, so I find these standards that we want to introduce strange. It would also point out that it clearly means that the growth of gross domestic product is planned at 3.2%. It's said to be overrated, and about a month ago we heard from representatives of different clubs if it doesn't mean you're not ambitious. It's very confusing to me, too. Then, on the other hand, there are always difficult demands, and I would like to point out that this is one plan and that we are also in conversation with our colleagues humble and that we know that we are just waiting for the implementation of this plan and that it will be the best indicator of these means of all planning whether they were good or not. On the other hand, we heard comments that this is a typical HDZ budget. And we know very well what criteria we must achieve, or how we must plan to have sustainable public finances. Here and inflation and share means debt in GDP clearly tells us to follow these criteria. And the truth is, we also have a chance to track them last year. Looking at some of the meanings of the next budget, it is very important to stress that growth in economic activity is not based solely on household consumption. It is also based on the export of goods and services. At the beginning of today’s debate, we were also asked how we would increase exports. And I'd be happy to answer that question again. But that's what we were talking about. What is also most important is to increase the absorption of EU funds. Why isn't that unrealistic? So, the previous government has also adopted a programme approved by the European Commission. So different programs. I can refer to the one I worked on, which is the Rural Development Programme, and we have shown to the European Commission that Croatia has a prerequisite for us to spend over a certain period of time as much as they do based on our size, based on our human capacities they can assign us and we have planned and this has been shown in these previous projections, but it has not been implemented. And definitely the funds are available and it really means, the Commission has confirmed it, and the pre-existing government has essentially presented that we are able to have the implementation capacity to exploit it and I don't see why it is considered that we can't actually do it. So we're saying the same thing that was planned before and what was delayed. Then she'd also say that we also have incomes from assets that come from asset-functioning, the truth, by selling apartments that grow by 29%. So these are some items that are forgotten at income level. Then I would also point out that all day long I've been hearing the wrong numbers, meaning the increase in expenditure that is financed from sources affecting the level of deficit is neither two billion nor five billion but 3.8 billion kuna. And the increase in expenditure financed from other sources, both from EU funds and from own and dedicated revenues, is 2.9 billion kuna. So total expenditure continues to grow to 133 billion kuna in 2018. Then we have an increase for employees, I already said cumulatively the last three years is bigger than that. Then we move on, so subsidies. We have subsidies on the side of expenditures of $ 6.5 billion, that's an increase of €387 million. Here we have the net result of the positive movement of subsidies and basically what is behind it, restructuring of the shipyard in 2017. But we also have an increase in expenditures that are financed which are clearly seen on the revenue side of 601 million kuna. This includes direct payments on the basis of the common agricultural policy and measures to regulate the agricultural products market. You've seen that they're having a good time this year. We also have an operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, and the development of effective human potential, so it will be spent on young people and on employment, but in a different way than before. It will be spent in such a way that the European Commission will allocate for certain programmes on the revenue side and then they will go to special departments on the expenditure side. So we have an increase in pensions and pension incomes by 578 million kunas and what is important to emphasize at the beginning we mentioned, we have additional maternity and leave and so on. So here's how I see time running out, and we'd like to point out the same way that we've commented on defense funds, and we've also commented on the aspect of health care funds, so that we don't reach world figures. With this increase in defence funds, we do not reach half of what should go to the defense and would like to stress that the funds given for defence are not the means for some toys that our defence minister will play with but are the means to defend our citizens and to see clearly what conditions the military lives on, what beds they sleep on, and how the facilities used by the military are equipped. I would also like to emphasise, it is always a story and, of course, it is difficult to see what funds are attracted by European funds and it is not easy to see especially in these first years when we join the EU we use pre-accession funds. It means as regards the contribution of the Republic of Croatia's budget, it amounts to an average of 3.3 billion kuna per year. 2013 withdrawn 1.1 billion kuna, 2014. 1.94, 2015, we have a growth of 5.4 billion kuna and 2016 is expected to be over 7.25 with what the Republic of Croatia is financing, which is 8.8 billion kuna. Otherwise in this debate I think this is a good piece of information on the Committee on Finance we asked him to be delivered to us and I think we're going to raise the level of this debate a little bit when we talk about these issues to a higher level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22858	We have a few replicas. First colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roscic, you said it was difficult to object to this budget. All day long, they've been making complaints here, and I think they're pretty argumentative, logical, and people understand why and how we object. On the other hand, you said that the fact is that the increase in expenditure when we exclude the EU is 3.8 billion kuna, but it's big money. If we had less spending on the state budget next year, the deficit would have fallen below 1% of GDP. I think it's really more of a priority than the state being irrational and wasteful in this way. On that side, you mentioned the defense, or you didn't include my time, but I'm gonna... You commented on the defense or that it wouldn't be toys. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not saying it's gonna be toys that don't need to be invested in defense, but I'm also saying that when the state doesn't have money that there are priorities. For me, the priority of retirement is, for me, the priority is the employees, for me, the businessmen' priorities. I'd be much happier if instead of raising a few hundred million kunas or five hundred million kunas of defense budget that we invested it in the economy that we gave more incentives that we gave for innovation. I'm looking at the budget of innovation incentives through HAMAG it's about five, six, seven million kunas that are being allocated from the budget, that we've given a hundred million kunas might have been more useful than this. So I'm not saying that our army doesn't have to be equipped and that it's not equipped. Our army is equipped and we hear all the time that she can carry out the tasks that she is entrusted with. And on the other hand, I don't think it was a priority to raise the defense budget this far, and to bypass pensioners, entrepreneurs and employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22860	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22861	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. I said to see that it's very difficult to keep the level of this debate because here I repeat heard the forest of wonders, mills and we heard it all the time and I think it's actually quite a welcome to make this debate interesting, but the worst of all that we've misrepresented, and here's a concrete one again, you said it's not much of this part that's funded from the EU funds, but it's a big difference whether it's 6 billion or 3 billion. I think that's clear, and as far as the defense is concerned, I think it's clear and you mentioned the world's figures yourself, so why not mention them in this area as well. So, as far as the defense is concerned, the defense is here to protect our citizens as well. We all know the threats we have now, as far as the immigration crisis and everything, so I think they're justified figures. But if we use the criterion, then, levels in GDP, investments in certain areas, that we must apply it in all areas at least equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22862	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Roscic, you've come to a more concrete debate, but when we talk about numbers, I would like to ask you the same thing, and we're discussing these answers now, so I'd like to hear from the minister and the minister, some specific problems that concern me. I know it's hard. Of course it's hard. Of course, our resources are limited, but in a situation, so said your colleague Maras, when your resources are limited, you have to think very carefully about what you're spending on. Let's say I asked a written question to the Prime Minister, I haven't received an agreement yet, which is the project Slavonia, which has been announced for so long. I don't see any S in this budget from Slavonia or that. You have another situation, say, that this budget measures the implementation of the industry strategy from 40 million to 5 million. Only the comparisons, in 2015, the allocation of funds for this measure was 80 million kuna. The most common objections we have in the economy and not only in the economy but also in education and all other sectors of social life and not in strategic terms. And here, the implementation of the strategic measures, we're having so much sex. The government expects a big job in public debt refinancing in 2017. I didn't get satisfactory answers about that. For example, in 2017, the need for this grew to more than 27 billion kuna. Along with the 2017 deficit, the commitment will grow to 33 billion. That's, you'll agree, quite a sum. As for the defense, I have no objection. I agree that our army should be modernised even though I would not agree with you now that the immigrant crisis is a threat that requires the military to enter the field. That's, I mean, the behavior of our police force who did it more than professionally and proved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22864	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22865	Thanks, buddy. First of all, we said this budget should be realistic. Of course, even when planning some projects, we need to plan projects that have completed project documentation. Project documentation is not only at national level but also at the level of units of local self-government, at the level of spatial plans. And unfortunately, we've had some problems with infrastructure projects about transport, as far as connecting is concerned, but some things, the preconditions should have been resolved at the level of local self-government units. Only then can it be predicted that it will be financed from the European Union projects, and I would also like to say about the external debt that it is very clear here that the sustainability criteria of state finances have been respected. And that's what we see when we look at the share means deficit in GDP, when we look at inflation and everything else. I mean, I don't know what else to explain to you when, in these little presentations, all these macroeconomic indicators are clear that they were really carefully going towards external debt service, interest and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22866	Next replica of colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22867	Thank you, Chairman. What's there is life is what it is. [[Intruder Vrdoljak: I couldn't, I was trying to get you in line, but you didn't.]] What's important is that this budget that we're doing leaves out the central problem of which I also see Ms. HDZ in her presentation simply bypassed it, which is the process of creating money that is such that it simply generates into a normal debt that grows from day to day, a debt that at one point we won't be able to catch by head or tail. We're talking about savings from I don't know 300 million on interest, and the debt this year will at best, in fact new borrowing will be 35 billion kuna. You'll see from year to year there's a constant. Constanta is the growth of this debt and the sale of state assets parallel to the reduction of all rights. And what the banks will give you, the banks will give your government credit, yes, Mr. Plenkovic will be able to borrow and will be able to finance this. But he won't tell the citizens that these loans will conditional on the sale of state property. By selling HEP, which has 2 billion kuna per year, the question is how much will HDZ sell it for. But it's not HDZ's fault. It is the whole system which banned the state from financing directly from the CNB and made it dependent on loans. And then from credit to credit, interest on interest, we simply deprive ourselves of the company of property. I'm sorry no one's talking about it. And that's why I'm taking this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22868	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22869	Thank you, dear colleague. I've been expecting the width and content of your discussions from the beginning. I was expecting him, and he's gone. We're always talking about national systems and finances, but here you are now mentioning the sale of state property, and you're constantly looking for that state property to be put into operation. You're saying it's not good, and in some of your discussions you've been telling young people how to give state housing, it's a sale of state property. You said that people who are in the process of doing this, who are being taken away from their apartments, should also be given to management, to assign state-owned apartments, and now I don't know where you simply interpret it through one sentence in another way and go back to that story about national systems, banking systems. It would be much better to show, on some narrower examples and smaller systems, how things should work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22870	Thank you very much. And finally the last replica of counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22871	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you've made it very clear that the increase for the Ministry of Defense's needs is justified, and it's been worked out precisely by segments that have been missing in the past tense. The army of the Republic of Croatia was unevenly even fed, let alone equipped. One had a salad, the other didn't, one had dessert, the other didn't and had to pay it out of their pocket. That was what resulted in the coalition government and what had to be fixed. It had to be fixed and everything else. Planning for the purchase of the following equipment, commitments have been made to equip the Kiev helicopter amounting to 95 million kuna... non-combat vehicles and equipment for the equipment of UN 65.5 million kuna, camp and camp equipment for the equipment of UN Company 35 million kuna, supply equipment of 5.6 million kunas, additional equipment for pedestrian weapons 3.5 million kunas and so, in turn, everything that has been missed in the budget has been clearly defined. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is also defined that I mentioned, food worth 10.1 million kuna increases on those items so that the army would be fed uniformly because it was also questionable to whom the salad would be given and to whom dessert, who had soup and who had no soup. Imagine what extremes these... who make fun of my possible mistake in an excuse called a helicopter, which doesn't bother me at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can laugh as much as you will who have never done anything with your hands in your life. You came to the first job in the Croatian Parliament. And imagine, fellow colleagues, when you're making an argument, when you count all these items that are increasing in the Department of Defense, that's funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22872	Okay, okay, slow down. It was obvious that you didn't mind being laughed. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22873	I thank the esteemed colleague, so the fact is that we don't reach the world standards as much as we should spend on certain areas, we haven't achieved even half of them, but we have increased investment in certain areas. And it takes more for health care, and I'm glad that this year and for the fire department we have 232 million more. What's important to point out that if there's no money cake is as big as it is, we can't divide it into more parts than possible but we have here and tax reform we have this here and planning the state budget and what's important is that we have structural reforms in front of us now. I'm glad we've passed a new Public Procurement Act, I'm glad that it's an amendment to the meaning of our club where the special conditions of getting food are at all and all that in the future of this rural development programme that goes from European funds are increasing our production, and I have experience with people I've worked with, to those I've written projects to export their products to both Austria and Germany and so on, so I believe that in the future we'll be able to achieve it according to our needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22874	Thank you very much. The next is an individual debate by counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with an associate, colleague and colleague who you have held out until this late hour. A lot is already said in the budget, I'll try to be brief, brief, underline what I think is right, underline, and not repeat myself too much. But if I were to sum up this budget, I'd say we're still spending more than we're making. And that's a fact, the budget is enormously bogged down, on both sides, so on income and on expenditure. I would say it is brave of the ruling, not necessarily by the minister, but by the government, since the finance minister is the one who defends the budget but more technically until he or she decides politically. But I would like some answers, and I would really like to share with you some doubts that we have about this budget, why I don't think he's good, that he doesn't contribute to further development of Croatia as such, I know that it's hard and a colleague mentioned it isn't easy to be a master in an empty house, but it's obvious that money has as much as the revenues are projected, according to the growth proposal. On the other hand, the question is how do we distribute these money or where we intend to spend these incomes? In fact, at first glance, if you look at this budget, significant funds are being made as I said, and in the replica, the prime minister is being directed into the indexation of pensions. But I have to repeat once again my colleagues and colleagues that the pensioner and many of them with this pension are more pensions, the amount I'm going to make is good for many, and that's 2250 kuna, his or her pension is going to grow by just 16 kuna, just 16 kuna. I agree that any progress is good for people who have a pension like this and 16 kuna is very much, much more than we can imagine. But if that's a little, globally, considering inflation and everything else is, life costs keep growing, pensions remain the same, it actually turns out that the later you retire, the worse you go. The money will not be paid more to teachers, teachers, teachers, etc., so the negotiations are ongoing we saw today from the media, but in the budget I think that Mrsic already mentioned, for salary growth only 700 million kuna is reserved. That's not enough. So if we're counting on only education wages growing 6%, that's more than $1.8 billion. So this amount isn't even enough to cover half that amount. On the other hand, the Prime Minister's Office notes an increase of 105.8%. Is that a good message? Well, I don't think it's relevant right now about the amount, but 100% you'll agree to is a really significant increase. The local self-government was cut off by tax reform to compensate the units of local self-government, so our municipalities, cities, counties, and projections show that they lost two billion kuna tax reform, so we barely compensated them for anything more than half of it, and that's very bad. I'll tell you why. Our mayors, mayors, mayors, no matter what options they come from, they are the first service of citizens to whom citizens address when they have a problem. Much harder to reach the MPs, the ministers are clearly almost impossible to reach because of the scope of their work, but these mayors and mayors are the first to communicate with people, the first to solve their problems. Of those who are often existential in nature, which are very difficult in fate to those communal and others, and now we will cut them off by 800 million kunas cumulatively looking. If one small municipality in Slavonia reduces the revenues of £200,000, believe me, it's very, very, very much for them. If you consider that a municipality in Slavonia and I'm going to talk about a middle on average has a budget of 2 million kuna, then count on how much it is. That's 10% of the budget. That's terrible. It saves on some things where I shouldn't be spared, in demining, for instance. I'd like that item to fall because of the fact that there's less and less surfaces under mines, but unfortunately that's not the case. We still have a very, very large area under mines and had a fatality, unfortunately, but the fact is that less money there is allocated. The budget for a million kuna is also reduced to the Croatian Food Agency. We are taking this opportunity to draw attention to you that it is the only state agency that has its headquarters in Osijek, so in the centre of regional mystic Croatia but also in light of the fact that we have witnessed a very difficult situation with food safety where the Croatian Food Agency plays a rather important role. And we, however, and despite one fatal case, unfortunately, that came out of it, we are reducing the budget. We save on youth policy, we save on volunteering as a healthy form of social development, we save on encouraging extracurricular activities in primary and secondary schools as regards technical culture. Well, that's very bad colleagues and colleagues. If we want to be a society that encourages it, it's so-called. The rock area, so we want our students or students who will be educated in exact sciences. It's very bad actually that we don't even finance extracurricular activities as far as technical culture is concerned. Especially if you keep in mind that during schooling children have technical culture only in primary school, so if they do not go to technical high school from 5 to 8 classes per year count on how many contacts they have with technical culture. If we don't help the schools to continue to introduce extracurricular activities aimed at developing technical culture, I'm afraid that a lot of young people will lose conditionally as to not only technical culture but exact sciences at all. I also mentioned measures to implement an industrial strategy. In 2015 80 million kuna was spent on this, in the last budget 40 and now plans to spend 5. I think it's very bad, as I said often at criticism, when I say we generally think Croatia is not thinking strategicly enough. So what happens now? If we have measures to implement an industrial strategy and industry is our painful point, we're cutting funds for it. So these are some exact examples, because I wanted to be exact where I don't think this budget is good, I could count this whole thing now, but I don't have time for that. But what you would conclude is that the money obviously has, the more we increase the revenue side, but how do we spend it? Here we spend it in the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So irrationally, if you ask me in terms of the social status that we have in the state budget is the political legitimacy of every government, this is the first budget of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. And what does that budget tell us? It tells us there is no money for young people, there is no money for volunteering, there is no money for culture, there is no money for a Croatian qualification framework whose funds are more than symbolic, there is no money for food safety, there is no money for implementation of an industrial strategy, etc. etc. etc. I sincerely hope colleagues and colleagues that the next budget or budget rebalance will show that I was wrong but that things are going to be clearly doubtful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22876	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. First replica of colleague Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22877	My dear colleague, of course, that you are here as a representative of the opposition today to list what you consider the shortcomings of this budget and that is entirely legitimate. But I must remind you you were talking about how this government in this budget has shown that there is no hearing for local self-government. I must remind you that in the government of the SDP, the coup on local self-government was much more severe. So you implemented a tax reform that has led many units of local self-government to sustainability limits. They had no payouts, then you tried to compensate them in a way that they could only be used for certain purposes, so these compensation measures were not as effective as they were supposed to be effective. At the same time, you have abolished the compensation for areas of special state concern that in many units of local self-government was an additional blow to their budgets, and we know that these funds were received by those units most injured in the Homeland War and the poorest. And today you show great concern for local self-government units and for losing this tax reform, and it is evident from this budget that the government has allocated compensation measures where they will receive the resources that they will use for the purpose they need, so that will be the means of general purpose and will receive to the extent that it was according to how much they lose according to the budgets they made in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22878	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22879	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelkovac, there are things I can commend far from it. So it's not about everything being black. No, of course not. Let's say if you're looking at division 2111 promoting human rights from 4 million kunas to 6 million kunas increase. I think that's good. Human rights should be spoken of, promoted, people should be aware that they have them, etc. So, there's a shift. But I think at least the purpose of constructive criticism is to make the budget even better. Unfortunately, I'm experiencing your argument as a statement this budget is bad, but you've been worse. That someone might have been bad in your opinion, I don't think that's a good argument if we're talking about arguments. And yes, special state care and the abolition of this measure is felt in some environments but also by introducing a development index are many municipalities that have not previously received funds and have also received very passive funds. I can give you a whole series of examples from my region, but I believe there are them everywhere from small municipalities that have not been hit by war directly, so we've all been struck indirectly. But I wouldn't say passive ends, but extremely undeveloped. They were even undeveloped before, so in the former state. The only trend continued, those villages relaxed, and the municipalities failed. Now, this way of supporting them, however, gave them a chance to get something out of the budget, not to literally ask for something, but to have it in their development index or in this case of underdevelopment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22880	Thank you very much. The second replica is a colleague of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22881	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's a chance to listen to my colleague from the SDP. Listening to him as well as his previous HDZ counterpart, he also criticises the budget in some way. However, if by any chance the SDP were in power and he were in the HDZ club, he would also find reasons to criticise him. So, what I'm saying is, it's not the problem with this budget right now that HDZ is doing it. The problem is that the system is such that the government has to sell out its assets because of the debt that grows from day to day. You don't perceive this problem at all, because no one is asking you where that budget is going to be financed from. You are all discussing whether one kuna will go up or down and whether it will be added somewhere else and taken away elsewhere. And the question of where will the 35 billion kuna come from in the first place to shut down the structure. That's not a question to ask. But I'll tell you what. My colleagues from HDZ told me the following thought: "Pernar, you are for not knowing how to give people apartments, I don't know or what, to put property into office." Yes, but the problem that we in Croatia have is not to privatise assets that are not put into office but to privatize what? Gold chickens are privatizing. What brings profit goes to the drum first. No one's going to buy railroads or anyone I don't know or Zelezar Sisak. Even if he buys it, it'll fail. So we run out of Croatia's insurance, no profit, no banks. And that question is not treated by any of you. There's 151 of us here, no one's asking that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22882	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22883	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, I would not agree that things can never be seen in black. I said the budget has some of its own good side, of course, and I'm not running away from it. But also if we had already increased the budget by 5 billion kuna, I wouldn't have seen the problem if we had directed it towards those I think are the most endangered layers of our society, and I said what I mean by that in the debate. The team no longer spends on certain things that are good for a healthy, healthy social development like developing volunteering. You have young people who are not motivated, do nothing but their own responsibilities. That's not good. They don't do sports, they don't volunteer. I tell everyone especially the students who visit our Parliament you do something. Not necessarily politics. You do aero-modeling, you do charity work, volunteer at the Red Cross, be useful to your environment, and eventually it will benefit you both through experience and through a whole range of other things. As far as other problems are concerned, there are many problems and they have not been created since yesterday and we have been dealing with them for a long time. One of the problems with talking about state property is that our country still doesn't know what it's got. And if you consider agricultural land, which is a burning topic in my region, many agricultural land has not yet been put into operation for a variety of reasons. Let it be because they are still mined, let it be because, for example, because of the trinity of bureaucracy in the vicinity of Miholj, you still have a land that is not rented even though the tender is announced if I am not mistaken six years or seven years ago. So it was a cancellation so it froze so in the meantime another model of agricultural land allocation came in, so no one knows what's going on anymore. And at the same time you have a manufacturer of ours, let's say... the same from the vicinity of Miholjc, who is crying out for a country where he can grow potatoes, because the potatoes must be imported from Hungary because there is not enough in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22884	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. Next individual debate fellow MP Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22885	Thank you very much. We've already entered somewhere in the tenth hour of the budget debate. I don't think it makes sense to chew on what's already chewed, so I'll try and be brief. So, I personally know that the SDP government did a good job and good foundation at least while she was in position, but that she was just so successful at the ruins she found, that she was so successful that today we could spread out here in pre-election and pre-election shopping, I'm not so sure about that. I'm not really sure I'm sure it's a good idea to spend the government's office that they're going or flying into the sky and there's no money for the judiciary. We will see what will happen, there are days, especially in light of all that awaits us in 2017, so that 38 billion debt returns, 6.4 billion deficits, food earthquakes, the European Commission, the INA, etc., etc. Here's a chance to see, and this tax reform is going to make us hungry, or you're going to gnaw the local self-government units better. Just so we don't get those compensation measures we're talking about don't go into discretionary measures. This is because these compensatory measures do not cover the consumption tax which will be reduced in view of these food shocks. So no compensatory measures are provided for the company tax, which means to small units of local self-government and life. Still, when this budget is adopted next week, some will be able to shop, and some will starve because this socially insensitive budget of inequality is further deepening. Sarma as an average of cabbage and meat in this case is not worth it, for some will only have soup. The members of the government have been increasing their salaries since the New Year's Eve a thousand, 1500, to more, and for those other and two, three, four, five thousand kunas. While 50,000 workers on the minimal have determined an increase of 156 kuna. And how did the pensioners go? One hundred thousand of them will receive a seven-and-a-half kuna increase. Another 100 grand will be increased by 15 kuna. 140 of them will get 22 and a half kuna. The 230 will receive 30 kuna, and 320 thousand will receive 45 kuna. All in all when summed up, in fact, 900 thousand pensioners won't cross 50 kuna in the next year. Now, whether we're going over that poster or we're going to congratulate someone, let them stay with us and the public for a moment. And I won't talk anymore, and I won't talk about the defenders this time, or the young people who have been translated through the water, there will be time for that. I would say just one more moment, and that is that Minister Maric, at the time when we had a reform of the tax system or tax reform, as you will, said that he really couldn't help those with small salaries and pensioners because they've never paid taxes before. That's right. I agree with him. But he also said then that it was, that it would be in other measures, other systematic measures. I have not seen any such measure that would reflect in this budget and that would at least give the poor a little support in order to feel some kind of grace in 2017. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22886	Thank you very much. The replica of colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22887	Dear colleague of the SDP, I have to tell you, I will speak to you honestly, I love you as a person and I love all these other people sitting here with us. I have nothing personal against anyone. However, for this division of society, this large division into a small group of rich and many poor is not only the budget, but it is the central bank's role that defined money as a debt. And thus all the money we have in circulation is a loan, which means that every kuna that exists is in the beginning of a long line of elites, against those 1% at the top of the pyramid of power. And what's going on? No matter how we distribute the money, we're all debtors, and all we have is money to pay back the principals of the loan. So we interest on those loans can't even get back in theory. And we sink into debt, we fall all together, and we argue whether someone gets a raise, say 50 kuna or a thousand kuna. Yeah, that's let's say something that hurts. But the basic reason why we even came into this situation is this very monetary policy. Why is it avoided in the Parliament to talk about this issue? That's not clear to me, because without its change, the decomposition will continue no matter how you turn the cards, no matter how you mix the deck, no matter how you throw the pins. The system is simply such that it generates poverty on the one hand, and money on the other hand in a very brutal way. That's what I was looking at with my own eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22888	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22889	Thank you very much. You said you loved me, you loved all these colleagues, you loved people. Well, perfectly normal, we're all human. So if we're all human, then we need to live or live with a single dose of dignity and human dignity. Decomposition. Yes, the difference and inequality has always been and always will be. We can't all be equal. Sometimes, however, it is exaggerated. I'll agree with you that it's not just the result of this budget. Well, of course, these inequalities have a little deeper and longer roots. But in this budget, it's gone too far. In some ways, I think that too many of these inequalities that could have been reduced in some way and especially when it comes to, let's say, I'm not sure that one MP or one minister should have a difference from a new year of five hundred or two thousand kuna, and that one of our pensioners the same man, citizen, the Croat should have seven and a half kuna. That's the thing, so these excessive inequalities I think should have been designed differently and reduced. Here's how much thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22890	We've exhausted the replicas. The next individual debate by MP Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22891	Thank you very much. I'm not quite sure who else is sitting here. Let me say a few words about this budget, or in particular, I will mainly concentrate in my debate on one part because I think it is illustrating for a large part of the budget, and on the other hand I think it is particularly important, which is education, science and research. Generally speaking the budget seems a little bit like it works out of each pocket or something in each pocket. And it shouldn't be so bad in principle that it certainly is missing everywhere and everywhere it would be good to increase a bit, but by this principle it is possible, of course, when an economic growth of 2.7% is inherited, when an economic growth of minus 1.5 is inherited, then of course, it is not possible and then it is necessary to create some wealth first to be shared. But when it comes to comparatively high growth compared to what the government inherited in 2011-2016 it would still be good to see from the budget exactly where it goes, where the emphasis is. Whether it is an emphasis on industry, an industrial strategy, whether it is an emphasis on IT and new technologies, strong agriculture, strong tourism development, health and quality, education, demographic recovery, this cannot be seen from this budget, although when you look at specific education then some outlines of what direction it is going to be monitored. At the same time, while very optimistic expectations about how much money will be managed to get out of the European funds and then cover a large part of what was planned in the budget, it is recently, and right now, let's say, the DZS published one in my opinion, worrying about the fact that the total turnover of the Croatian industry in September 2016 fell 5%. Now in this general euphoria and optimistic mood, that would, in my opinion, be one data that should be concerned and that further suggests that it will have to rely on something that is a pigeon on a branch right now, which is the means that will be derived from Europe. When I look at a specific budget for education according to my deep belief in the country, such as our budgets, I must never say in the government in which I participated, I was not satisfied with how education was treated, although, of course, economic indicators were much worse at the time and should have been corrected first and brought to this situation, of course, I am not counting this spring government of 5.5 months because it was so disastrous that the HDZ itself crashed, but by comparing the plan in this Government and the plan in 2011-2015, or formally viewed 2016. So when you look at specific education, there are two groups of items that talk a lot about this budget. One item that's apparently not to say falsely increases. There are a whole series of items, and I will at least count some here that de facto decrease or remain the same compared to the 2015 budget, but then from this government that lasted six months have been drastically reduced and are increasing compared to that. But de facto compared to actual figures, so the 2015 budget either falls or remains the same at best. Examples of false education increases, assistants in child training with developmental difficulties, scholarship of regular students and scientific training, education and education of children in preschool programmes, capital investment in primary school, public interurban transportation for students, a very important item drastically reduced and then returns to what was or something below. Development of higher education, enthusiasm and technological development, support for innovation processes, publication and publication of domestic scientific journals, publication of scientific books and textbooks, scholarships for students of weaker socio-economic status, eu projects of universities in Osijek, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Pula, Split, Zagreb. So they're here somewhere, for example. Reduced by the government in the spring compared to the government in 2011, those funds were reduced by as much as 60% and of course, now if they increase by a few percent then the increase is compared to that. But compared to what was in 2015 is a de facto drastic reduction. And then there's a whole series of items going directly to a reduction and compared to what was in the spring government of those five and a half months. These are high-school scholarships for the Roma, a science recruiting program that passed by this 6-month-old government reduced by 84%, and you further reduced it by 6, something over 6%. Scientific centres of excellence, additional funding, technological development projects, then the University of Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Split, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Pula. The only university with increased funding sees wonders is the Catholic University. But I guess somehow to find out was a halved support study of Protestant theology. So the Catholic University increased, but Protestant theology was halved. I guess that's an ideological question. Scholarships and scholarships for Doctoral Studies, regular activity of public institutes, procurement of foreign scientific journals, funding of scholarships for postgraduate studies and reducing support for innovation processes. So, it's not just an illusion of this increase that at first glance I have to say that I've been greatly cheered up by 11%, but it's de facto and there's a system in reducing, or that de facto reduction which at first glance looks like an increase related to minorities, related to innovation, related to new technologies, related to doctoral and post-doctoral studies, therefore, related to what is de facto the basis of our economy, the foundation of our society, the foundation of our development. And this may be much harder to read from the overall budget than from this particular budget relating to education and science. I wish this was just happening right now, and you're really planning something much better next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22892	We have a replica. Believe it or not, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22893	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you know what I'd say to my esteemed and dear colleague Pusic? So just as this budget turned around, however the budget parties rotate, there's just not enough money. Someone's always got to hang up. I remember when I watched as a child when the SDPs were putting together a budget, then the HDZ colleagues were talking here, these items are critical. Then when they put it together, then you say these items are critical. However, even if you put it together, there would be critical items again. Which will say that the problem is not primarily at the level of the distribution of money, but in its general shortage. Just money's not enough. And instead of hiring us 151 here together to try to find the cause of the kuna depravity on the one hand and the credit debt on the other hand, and the stagnant inflation in which prices rise and incomes fall from the third side, we keep gnawing about which item has gotten a little bit more and which little less. And what's this about? At the end of this day, we will spend our whole day gnawing about it, and you too, Mrs. Pusic, and all of you other colleagues know and on my right means, SDP and HNS that the HDZ will not accept any amendments. And when you see that the situation is such that nothing is simply going to change like you wouldn't respect their amendments to give them, then in my opinion, it would be the smartest thing for us all to do together to try to explore what is causing this indifference or indifference in the country. But unfortunately, there's no will for it again and that question is ignored again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22894	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22895	Thank you very much. Well, it may be, and it may not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22896	Thank you very much. Next individual debate of counterpart Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, this is a miracle, I didn't even start speaking, Mr. Pernar already has a replica. Apparently I'm lurking after these days, I'm being lurked. Yes, but it should certainly be emphasized in this introduction if you haven't watched one portal, look because maybe it's a donor of this amazing apparatus that transmits directly, so you have everyone who sleeps, who you're looking at, so read a portal that seems to have received a new stronger sponsor, and this one follows it regularly. [[Ivan Vrdoljak: You are not alone. I don't know if you noticed, but many of our colleagues and colleagues are...]] But I wouldn't go into those details right now. If I don't advertise it, you'll find it. [[Ivan Vrdoljak: Don't. You'll figure it out later in the halls.]] That's right. [[Intruder Ivan Vrdoljak: The debate is on the budget of colleagues.]] I'm still gonna focus, even though we're all slowly exhausted, I'm gonna try not to go wide. Therefore, the budget is too high for some parties and for MPs. But for those of us who come from local self-government, who come from areas that are in the current index of development or underdevelopment, from a mountain-mounted area or areas of special state concern, it is a budget that raises hope. Why? Well in the first row because the budget in one part is turned directly to cities and municipalities. Nearly 4 billion kunas will help local self-government open doors for many cities to realize hundreds of prepared projects to improve living conditions. Pre-conditions are created for quality access and preparation for designing, applying and withdrawing funds from EU funds. Aid from the state budget facilitates the functioning of local self-government. There is a release of funding for new development projects in cities and municipalities and thus fosters overall and regional development of the Republic of Croatia. I know this sounds too optimistic, but what benefits and futures we have from constant whining, causing new, black forecasts. When in recent years has this budget been raised in the direction of the defense population, in the direction of overall defence and security? Those calculations were last raised as we heard five years ago. That's the direction, that's the path that won't be easy. But attacking and bringing into doubt something that in the right sense of the word has not yet begun to come true and is looking for reasons for a negativeistic approach is not a good direction. There is no resolution ministry that has not proposed greater support in its projections in line with the real needs consistent with positive, overall financial developments. No area of the Republic of Croatia has been forgotten and all ministers and prime ministers show that no selective access is possible, i.e. there is no difference in areas. Each area is important and needs to be approached with attention and particularly social sensitivity. Employment and job creation are a prerequisite for development of the entire Republic of Croatia. We are looking forward to announcing economic recovery and direct incentives for the development of entrepreneurship and all branches of the economy. In particular, it is necessary to highlight agriculture as an important branch of Croatia's development. The indicator is that the Ministry of Agriculture is on track and understands what is the problem in the sector, these recent actions and concrete moves that have also raised the storm. But the storm was raised above all by those who have questionable quality and who are far from legal behavior. The Compensation Fund, here today often and these days, is mentioned direct assistance and incentives to hundreds of local budgets that are unable to carry out income tax burdens as well as to mention the development index so many times. I hope the time when a state official of one ministry personally escorted me is four years long. After I got here with... concrete projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The end I come from, the Chetino End, this fund will help in difficult times for all budgets. Many cities and municipalities lost their income taxes as well as the above mentioned development index, but most of them lost their citizens because the leaders couldn't make life easier for them in the environments where they live because they couldn't send all this together financially. Here we have a review of the development index that we believe will further assess the real state of all Croatian parts through the legal framework. Now for those who did not, who obviously did not read, we have an article 52 on the implementation of the budget which says: “The units of local and regional (regional) self-government will be paid out of the budget in 2017 to the difference between income income from income tax and income tax income that will be achieved during 2017.” Paragraph 2 states: "The difference in this paragraph and Article 1 shall be determined by the Ministry of Finance and by the 15th of every month the difference established for the previous month shall be paid." Dear and esteemed colleagues, I've listened well to you all together, but I can see you laughing, I don't think it's fair, you can at least listen to me for these two minutes, and then feel free to comment here. Because of this approach [[Intruder Vrdoljak: A colleague is right, he is little in continuity, he lasts too long.]] and all announced measures today and all these days when the main topic of the budget is normal for both the budget and all the ministers and the prime ministers who created it to give it a chance and support because efforts and concrete proposals have been made, especially for families and young people. [[Vrdoljak: And I know, so that's the problem as long as possible.]] This is certainly and should be reiterated in terms of demographics and many of the measures announced by the resolution ministry, for example. Birth leave, higher fees. Subsidisation of credit for young people, which comes to us from the Ministry of Construction, are concrete measures and Croatian people are interested in what the Government intends to do. The fact that through the measures announced by the Ministry of Regional Development, many aid packages are waiting for us according to many projects that are ready to withdraw funds from the EU funds is also an important piece of information especially for local self-government. This ministry in synergy with other ministries and bodies of state institutions should be an investment swing engine through the opening of many construction sites and future opening and implementation of projects. What is certainly visible in this debate today, and interestingly, we have not had, regardless of many criticisms and many remarks, had no particularly difficult reference to this budget and to any of the practical club representatives and neither individually. That says the budget is well-prepared. The contribution is certainly the same media inscription this afternoon when one representative said the budget was like Golf 2. It should immediately be understood when they convey these same media that the budget is essentially for many Mercedes but they have not yet been able to understand it. The way that experienced representatives debated and discussed the state budget, in a way that they keep going back to some old times, accusing each other, certainly every Croatian man is full of it, even at this time when these after several hours of discussion are watching us. And finally, no matter how unfounded and underpriced, we have approached some discussion today about the basic document of Croatia's future development. I want to tell them once again as many of my colleagues the budget is developed, it is aimed at a whole series of measures and quality data towards everyone. And to end up attacking the budget and calling it this and that and after that, pouring us all day with tons of amendments is something that doesn't exactly fit the story. And how unsustainable, unreal, pre-election, populist, why a ton of amendments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22898	Thank you very much. The replica of colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22899	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's what I've been listening to, and I've been listening very carefully to my HDZ colleague for moments, and I'm lost for moments. However, in one segment of his speech, he argued that this budget is good for residents of these mountainous and mountainous areas, or for areas of special state concern. But what's going on? I talk to people on the road, on the street, anywhere they tell me, no young man told me, Ivan, when I saw this draft budget, for example. I decided to stay in Croatia. Not a single person told me that, and he's like a stimulating, developed, and everything else. Which will say that this budget of yours won't stop young people from moving out of the country, will not stop digging through containers where people are looking for garbage bottles, will not stop a row in front of a soup kitchen where that woman attacked me the other day. But why? Not a problem in the budget, the budget is just one of the government's instruments. The problem is in monetary policy, which is anti-developmental, anti-social, anti-justice, it's unfair, it's unfair because it makes us all debt slaves, not by our own decision, but by the system. And unfortunately, neither you nor your previous colleagues simply question that monetary policy. You're saying that the budget, praise the budget in full and you know that the next day when it is voted and in a year everything is going to be the same as it was today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22900	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22901	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, why am I speaking on behalf of the mayor and the mayor, and we come from local self-government, especially people who have not had the pleasure or privilege of being in front of other cities and municipalities all these years. That's why I'm talking now, that's why I'm talking right now, and that's why I set my own example. So a few years ago one of me, I don't want to call people that way, so the assistant minister took me literally after I drove 450 kilometers to receive me for three minutes and told me after I counted the communal infrastructure, draining, roads, roads, what makes life more quality, he accompanied me with words at the end when he was listening and spinning in the chair, so do you think, they're four years long? So come in four years. I believe, and I don't want to call, normally I don't want to go back to that level of conversation, but I also want to tell you that there won't be a population stopping young people, neither will this media lynch, nor will the use of the media in any way that is below the level will not contribute to that, nor will unquality debates in the Parliament contribute to stopping these negative trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22902	Thank you very much. Next replica of counterpart Miro Bulj, MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My friend Šipić, you mentioned, I know it's a Christmas hour, but it needs to be real. So if Mao Ce-tung stood on the stage then one of them boasted the other they weren't allowed to speak. The reality in mountain-mounted areas is quite different. I know your Trill gets more in the budget today for indexation until my Son has no kuna. It's a fact, and how much divides us, in which the Trill is more developed that there are 4 million kunas in the budget and Sinj, for example. There isn't? Or... that it doesn't. So we still have an unfair indexation, which was promised in 2017 by Minister Tolusic to be presented in 2017, that it would be accepted by an amendment to the law that was absolutely unfair, which brought Kukurik to a coalition that was disastrous and we see devastating results. So Trill's got a water supply for the hydrothermia Sinj doesn't have it, Cetina's going, it's going to be going over Sinj, it's going to be... Not Cetinje, only Trilyo goes and some of the municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, decentralised funds that go to the county are certainly much better to be the chief who is a member of a party than not some party. So in the case of Split-Dalmatia it is a special example. That's proof of how the county works. And really where SDP's mayor might be, he's acting differently, so he's guessing. So it's not fair, it's not a good thing. It needs to be changed. They're not righteous, they're not just. So you're talking about decentralisation, you've been talking all day. Absolutely. What's decentralisationd? What's decentralisationd? So we have empty spaces with cars from Like to Trill, let's go to Vrgorec and see. I know you need to watch the bright future We'll see what happens. [[Intruder Ivan Vrdoljak: Time.]] But indeed, when it comes to the budget, then we need to speak realistically, not just from the position of our place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22904	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22905	Dear colleague Bulj, this is indeed one way of saying this is a privilege and a gust that for the first time, the two of us who are divided 10 kilometers from town to town to discuss it this way. And you get the impression that you're not in this ruling car this way, and you know me very well, and you know very well the model that I'm working on, that, first of all, you're a representative of the Cetinski end, but you're a whole nation. But you also need to know, and you know that I'm also choosing to be a representative of the Chetino area and all the people in that neighborhood. So it's a little bit like this for the public that you and I are replicating ourselves, it's a little bit of a problem, but I'm still going to answer some of the data you've provided, it's not true. First of all, if you've already gone looking for the data City of Trill does not enjoy this privilege of having 4 million kunas from that compensation fund, no, but we had 3 million kunas that were determined during this three-year period. And my mistake, our mistake, neither yours nor yours, is in that part, and in what way that development index is shared. You know very well how it worked in Sinj and how it came to be part of how there was an index of development. You know very well. I don't want to mention the late mayor, God gave him heaven, in which way the government in Sinj presented itself. So don't interrupt me, the way it was when the actual story was to fill out certain data, how certain local units reported their development index. Some of the mayors and mayors should be honest, and it was dense to write and in the interest to write that they were developed, and in reality, we agree that they were not, that they should be changed. And I agree with you that we need to change. But also don't take it for granted that I don't care as mayor of your neighboring city until the Chetino end. I can't tell you either, or anyone here, because I choose as you do, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22906	Thank you very much. The next replica of my colleague, Dragica Roscic. And you gave up? Too bad, you're close to them too. Next replica of counterpart Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22907	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, a development budget. I'd like you to tell me just one item in the budget that you've concluded that this budget is developmental. So, no R from the developmental. And as for the tone of these amendments, I'm really sorry that there are no tons of them to try and at least save what little can be saved from such a bad development budget. I'm glad you didn't mention that he's socially sensitive, that he's turned to the workers, that he's turned to the model by preventing young people from leaving Croatia, that he's turned to creating preconditions for new jobs in Croatia. If you tell me some of those things, if you deny what I just said, I'll agree with you that he's really developmental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22908	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22909	Well, look, I really don't get it, a lot of things don't make sense to me, but it's not clear to me now that I should tell you again what I've been reading from this part. If it wasn't clear, I mentioned that he was socially sensitive and that he was going in the social direction. I said about demographics, I said about regional development, I said about many things, and I didn't mean to deliberately burden myself, or yourself, or you, or the public with so many numbers that we've heard so much during the day, even in these discussions these days. And speaking of whose and in what way the development budget was, there's nothing more to say than saying one thing, and that's why you didn't stay in power when you were such a masseur at your time when you were like this with all those topics that you're now imputing to me and us in this way. What made your budgets that had been so sharp and promising progress in a few years, why didn't it result in the people choosing you again? For what? So you bring down my men all day long. I don't think I want to contribute to an unquality debate either. That's it. I could have responded like this right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22910	Exactly. We've never fallen into good times, always in bad times. Next individual debate colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This budget is actually so very optimistic. It envisions positive economic movements, predicts GDP growth, 121.6 billion revenue, and expenditures on the other side of 128.4 billion. What I don't think, regardless of optimism, is good for us to plan to spend more than we're going to make, even by 6.8 billion. What I think we have to do at the very beginning is, say one big thank you to the units of local self-government and to the caterers who make a huge contribution to what the income side is like, so the contribution of the local self-government units is 2 billion kuna and 1 billion kuna is here, a billion reasons to thank the caterers for helping us to discuss today, about the priorities that they are going to spend, in fact, which is their contribution to the budget itself. However, the projection itself, which is quite optimistic, depends largely on us, or on many things. On the one hand about the planned growth of GDP, the question is that this tax sword that has actually reached our hosts will reflect on the very revenue side of tourism so that it is one major questionnaire on the revenue side of the budget. And on the other hand, the €11.2 billion we intend to receive, i.e. the funds that are planned in the budget that we will withdraw from the European funds. But it's up to us to be successful. However, when we have a situation that the spending side is even 6.7 billion kuna higher than the expenditure side and 5.5% higher than the rebalance itself, the question that is really being raised and has already been raised today is how to explain to teachers, teachers, teachers that there is no money to increase wages and that there is no money to meet the obligation to increase 6% of the base. What's kind of a good start for me is the fact that you've entered into negotiations with the unions, that the fact that in the media we can already see quite clearly the direction in which these negotiations are going. We can see promises and some kind of compromise that you'll find yourself on an increase of 3% of the base. But when we look at the budget then we see that you're actually lying to these unions, you're knowingly lying to them at least when we're talking about primary and secondary school employees. Why? Because when we look at grossly reserved funds for gross salaries of primary and secondary school employees, there is no increase of 3% of the minister. There's an increase of 1.5%. I don't know why these people who've been waiting for a year just for what belongs to them where all the assumptions came true a year ago to pay off those bases, why we're putting them in a position to drag them and make promises that we won't be able to keep. Only if we knowingly know that this budget is actually locally pre-election and in some way buying social peace and we will experience budget rebalancing in the 6th month and this item will look very different among other things but that means that a number of other items will be damaged if we have to satisfy and show credibility to the unions that we will increase their base by 3%. It has this budget in some of its items and bright moments when I say, let's say, I specifically studied the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education. What is positive to me is, for example, the planned 9 million kuna more for implementation, i.e. the withdrawal of funds based on the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion and 117.9 million kuna of the operational programme of effective human potential. However, here I sincerely hope that you too will force the ministries to finally start doing their job. Because over the past year, for example, the Ministry of Science and Education has missed the withdrawal of a billion and 300 million kunas due to clean negligence, so through our hands already for the finished actual programming documents, we have lost 50 million euros in funds that we could invest in professional training and training of teachers and teachers, 50 million euros for scientific centres of excellence, 85 million euros for investment in vocational education and training. What's kind of minor, but let's say some steps you've come to realize that you've cut off the islands, so in this budget you plan to allocate 1.2 million kunas more for the island's water supply, unfortunately that's not the case with co-financing of the high-speed maritime lines. For example, the sustainable development programme of the Adriatic islands decreases from 151.7 to 131.4 million kuna. I don't know how this will contribute to depopulation policy on our islands. What I think is the bright point of this budget is that the end of the Intercultural School of Vukovar project is finally monitored, and despite the fact that in the Memorial Center of the Homeland War, Vukovar funds are reduced in the budget plan from 35.6 to 34.3 million kuna, the educational part of the centre itself that will allow our students of the 8th grade primary schools to all go to Vukovar and actually learn history in a different and more visible and practical way. We see that this will finally be realized, and I'm glad that you continue this project that started our government and piloted it for two years in a row. What's positive is that you also realized that you made a huge mistake last year when you nearly halved the funds for the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. So from 25.2 million kuna you have increased these funds to 41.8 million kuna, this is extremely important for strengthening the institutions of civil society but for developing a democratic society as a whole. Now we come up with one of those seemingly very, very positive items in the budget, it's a curricular reform. The funds actually planned for the production of curricular documents, so I'm also reading that for the implementation of curriculative reforms are 9.5 million kuna. However, what is completely, I will say amateurally, completely irresponsible to this Croatian Parliament is that we do not have any action plan, no programming document, no document from the Ministry of Science and Education that would show in fact which direction these funds will be spent and in which direction the change in education is going to go. We continue, unfortunately, with a negative trend of insufficient investment in professional training and education of teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools. From 3 million to 1.7 million, we're reducing resources to the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality. I have to notice that this is the only law firm that has a significant fund reduction, and the other offices are increasing the funds, and I don't know why that is, but the message of good is certainly not. The funds to encourage outside-institutional education and education associations of children and young people are reduced by 27%, which is bad if we consider that we have already rebalancing them from 10.1 to 6.1 million kuna. As far as capital investments are concerned, we do not know the future of building the primary school of Sinj, which was actually in the budget until this budget proposal. Somehow I feel that the future of the University campus in Zadar, a project that was to be financed from EU funds, is questionable, and this rightfully gave me the answer of the assistant minister on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. And what I don't see here, I've heard here that the budget has been developed and even social, so how can the funding for scholarships of students of weaker socio-economic status be reduced? I just don't get it. We do not realize how important it is to ensure quality in the system because HKO in the Croatian qualification framework, which is in fact one of the key reform elements and instruments in the development of higher education, is the means we plan at 248.68 kuna and we are not unfortunately ambitious enough when we talk about investing in science and scientific research activities, so we set ourselves the goal of sharing in GDP with 0.33 which we found in 2011 we end up at 0.4. It is far from 3% and a trend that is dominant in developed European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22912	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22913	Dear fellow Glasovac, I have listened to your exposure and I have seen that your exposure is on the trail of previous exhibitions, that you are troubled by what some means an institution has received a little less money and on the other hand some items have been increased. However, the budget by its nature is such that it always happens regardless of who was in power. And every debate on the budget repeats such scenes where the SDP is in power then HDZ gives amendments and complains about the distribution and the SDP rejects it all or now in a situation where the HDZ is in power and the SDP gives amendments and complains. Nothing's changed here. We just watch the same show year after year. And what happens to the citizens? Are the citizens after this show today, will they live better? Will one citizen say here, today I can say that my children have a future in this country? Will any young man who thinks about leaving this country after he listens to us here as we speak, say that, there's hope I'll stay here. It is my sincere belief that it is not and that it is our fault, most of all, that in our discussions we do not even touch the root cause of the problem. And the main cause of the problem is the policy of the central bank, the CNB which has the role of a currency exchange office that does not broadcast money, which does not finance the state. And consequently, the state is in trouble with hunting, and then it has to harass taxpayers, raise taxes, squeeze every kuna out of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22914	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22915	Comrade Pernar, a person who does not understand that investing in education is the only guarantee of the country's development and the only real supply for the future understands absolutely nothing. I have the full right here and as a part of the executive government in the operational sense of the last government, the full right to comment on and disprove the budget relating to the Ministry of Science and Education. Here it is fortified in this Croatian Assembly to adopt the Strategy for Science, Education and Technology as a key national document that is the way of developing an education system for the future. The Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted the strategy. The key part, ask any child, any parent, any population of the Republic of Croatia he will tell you that the education system of the Republic of Croatia is full of holes, is not appropriate, does not meet the needs of these young people but does not meet the needs of or society. And when we see a budget like this and the budget is a key political document, it's politics, the direction of a government. When I see the numbers showing up but we don't know the direction, we don't reveal the direction in which we're going, that I don't know what we're going to do with ourselves, how we're going to change, whether we're going to meet the challenges of today's society, then I take the full right to criticise it because I've been working on some changes in education, and I don't think this education ministry budget is ambitious enough to guarantee us a better future. I am, I am concerned about the further continuation of education reform and the implementation of the Strategy for Science, Education and Technology. So I'm actually in this replica of yours to all your colleagues on this side of the missing target.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22916	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22917	Thank you very much. My colleague, you mentioned the elementary school of Fr. Pavel Vukkovic in Sinj. Yeah, it's a school that's been told since 2006 mostly in pre-election times that election cycles have been coming so it'd always be an announcement of a rock foundation, so I even set up one cornerstone so it wouldn't be 2, 3 years ago, i.e. Before the previous parliamentary elections, not these now, I laid a cornerstone in... And we must put at every step in Sinj in the Cetina region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am glad that you from Zadar are coming, otherwise it was good co-operation between the HDZ and the SDP in Zadar area, so it is also aimed at the highway, I am glad that Dalmatina is headed towards Zadar and this area is left behind precisely because Sinj is forgotten. Although the head of the list lives in Zagreb independent of Sinj, the fact that this year it is. in the previous budget for 2016 there were 2.1 million kuna in the budget, that was the agreement of the late mayor of the state and of the county to pay 50% of the county, 50 states worth 50 million kuna. The county had raised its hands, but since Minister Shustar put it in the budget, I fought, I walked to him, I had to squeeze it, it literally works that way. However, what was the budget, what did it do with the documentation? The project came up with 118 million kuna and I gave the amendment. The other day we also had a meeting at the Ministry where the heads of the city, the county and the minister were looking for a solution to this problem. But it's disastrous that the government in Sinj, the county around this project simply heads up, no one knows how it happened that the project with 50 million kuna went to 118 million kuna. They're all making a fool out of each other. Mutative defense. Everyone knows nothing all of a sudden. So two million kunas were targeted for the project. Two million kunas were thrown into the water. I've given the amendment. Although it should be urgent to seek an alternative to this, I mean 118 million kuna for school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22918	Thank you very much. The distinguished Sabine Voter will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22919	My colleague Bulj and you and I know that actually the construction of this school is open mostly thanks to Deputy Secretary of the Navy Mr. Rok Andricevic, yes. Now the idea of the original and the agreement was originally that the school would be built in a way that the Ministry would finance seemed 65%, 25% county, 10% City of Sinj. The original project value was 40 million kuna. Later, it grew to 70 million kuna because it was thought that a music school, but also a sports hall, was to be built alongside the building of the elementary school. Why in the last year the project has grown from 40 million and 70 million to 118 million kuna, respectively, I don't know. Answers to that question will have to be sought in your county or city. But it's not a secret, it's not a secret, and I live in a town like this where certain projects were contracted that ultimately cost three times as much. You know how it goes – half drinking, half giving – so it's bad habits that have obviously broken unfortunately on this project as well. What is sad is that if the project remains at this value of 118 million kuna, unfortunately, I'm afraid it won't be built so quickly, and it could have been relatively quickly realised that we were holding on, that you were all sticking to the original agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22920	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22921	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, it's 9:00. We've been here all day. The minister listens carefully with his associates what we say. Something records, something doesn't. But I think we should always say what we have. We talk in different ways. He's got us like those renaissance politicians, so they understand everything. I'm not like that, so I'm gonna talk about those things that I think I understand a little better. This budget reminds me of something my mom taught me, which is to save when it's there, not when it's gone. Unfortunately, when we have decided to spend, we'll see each other there in the other half of next year because there'll be a rebalancing and there'll have to be. I'll talk about demographics as long as I'm in this assembly and in this place, and that's something I think we should talk about and what we should point to. Likewise, and when the prime minister was speaking at the opening, I was talking about demographics, and I was talking about the need to think about kindergartens and schools, so it's very convenient to see the amendments that we've given, which will certainly be rejected because no more amendments or rebalancing have been accepted, so neither will this be an exception. There is and this clearly shows the situation in which we are, there is one school in Pribislava that is a municipality in Međimurje County that is a school that was planned to build there for 18 years where out of 300 and some children more than half of the children are Roma children who really go to school there, study together, 2015 started with the project of the municipality has secured the land, the municipality has also made project documentation, the county has provided some of the funds, part of the funding was in the budget and the first phase was created. For phase two, it is now concluded in this budget that there is no money. I'll translate what that means, it means that it won't be over, that it will stand, that these will be tortured, that in some 3, 4 or 5 years some means will come up and it will cost a lot more, much more than it will now be finished. So once again, there are projects that have begun, for which little more money needs to be provided or funds to finish. It's much better to have completed projects than not to end those that aren't finished and open some new ones. Likewise, what is always interesting to me, and it will be interesting in the budget to see what we are doing and how we are solving and what reforms and projects are related to the housing of young families. So also the prime minister in response said work continues, but what you need to know is that POS continues with the same means. And what was to be expected and what was to be expected every time one government stopped and another began to at least those projects that were good, for which everyone showed that they were good going on. Maybe not with that intensity, but to keep them going. In fact, POS rental is an excellent project, only when we interviewed the citizens of Split, 1800 families said they were interested in renting. Why is he interested in renting? Because they're going into a secure lease with the state and then they have an option to decide in the first three years whether to buy that apartment or not. However, POS remained somewhat smaller than before, so we do not have any ambition. But not long ago, however, we talked about local taxes in this respected House, and on several occasions we also talked about real estate taxes. Then I said and on a few occasions I told my people we weren't ready for that tax, don't let us go into real estate tax, our citizens and we weren't saving in diamonds, in shares, we were saving gold in real estate, and I have to say I was very interested in whether there was an item in this budget that would deal with the value of real estate, and I found that item. However, I remained a little surprised, I saw the item and said for 2017 it was on that item 41 million kuna, for 2018. 70 million kuna for 2019 is even more. I tell you very much because we're dealing with millions here very simply then I really like to turn these millions into something concrete. In Zagreb, since our mayor is so busy with fountains, then in Zagreb we love to turn these items into fountains. So this item, which for 2017 amounts to 41 million kuna, is provided to you in Zagreb with approximately four fonts. But I prefer to turn it into POS flats. Namely, when we talk about apartments of POS per square metre in Zagreb or in Split, it is about a thousand and 50 euros and when you take an average apartment of 70 square meters, so next year for an estimate of the value of the property is the amount with which 76 apartments of POS could be made, so 2018. 96 apartments, and 2019. 131. I am on the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning, and I see that there are also some colleagues who are on the board, a little asked the Minister what and how and how I realized he can't give an answer until the end, and I'm very interested in what we're going to do with an estimate of the value of real estate. In doing so, we need to know that with 1.1.2018, this tax is moving, and we are providing such a large amount in the budget, so only in the next year 76 POS apartments would be made and imagine that you will make these apartments in Split and rent them elsewhere in Croatia and thus provide housing for young families. Finally, no matter how much fun they have here, so I can't even hear myself, the final budget has really this one flaw of glass legs. In order for it to be realised, for this spending party to be as overlooked, a series of conditions must be. As I said before, the first condition must be to succeed in withdrawing everything that is related to EU funds, and then we have all the external elements that we cannot influence, and there is Brexit, so the changes in Italy, so the changes in France are most ideally possible, regardless of what is really on glass legs, and it would be much better if the rulings had decided to save themselves when it is there because when you have nothing to save. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22922	Thank you very much. One replica, the esteemed John Pernar. He's gone. He's losing the right speech. The next distinguished representative of Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22923	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard all sorts of things in the draft of this budget and that it is developing and that it is undeveloped and optimistic, that it is pre-election, but we have not heard one thing until just before, there is no capital investment in this budget for the County of Međimurje. The county located in northern Croatia between the Drava and Mura River, which has the lowest wage average, a county with a budget of 40 million kuna, a county with 729 square kilometers, a county that has 113 thousand 804 inhabitants, of which 100 fighters defended cities and Vukovar, and Lipik, and Sibenik, and Dubrovnik and all of Croatia, a county that has 10 thousand Roma, a county that has not even received support for building a home of health, and the budget provides for the renovation of the government's space. A county that hasn't won either for Pribislavec Elementary School or Kuna. We should see what places the primary school Pribislavac is located in the Castle of Count Festeć built in 1850. In 1964, it was refurbished to school, and it is still being held today in those areas. The building of the school and the hall has begun, but we are where we are. We started building homes, we know that Međimurje County is the number of cancers at the top of the Republic of Croatia, and our home of health is located in four locations in buildings 50 to 150 years old. A few days ago, we had an amendment to the completion of the sports hall at the Orehovica Elementary School, where more than 50 percent of Roma students were also, did not pass the amendment and on all these again we gave the amendment to all projects. We hope that the amendments will be respected and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22924	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the esteemed John Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22925	I'd like to say we're questioning the meaning of this debate. What is the point of us arguing all day when we know that the ruling will refuse all amendments? What is the meaning and speech of the ruling and their replicas? This is the one, as Prvačin once told me, a verbal ping-pong where, who are our citizens who are looking at accidentally HTV four, watch it, are forced to watch it and wonder what the meaning of all this is. I don't know. I don't think they know either, and I don't think you know yourself. I've tried through my speeches here to point to the source of the problem. The root of all problems in the country, and that is the wrong monetary policy. The fact that money is created only as a loan, which is no money for the payment of interest, which is a kuna for the euro, but instead of talking about this central problem which is why we are in debt slavery, which is why everything worth selling out, which is why people don't have money, which is why ultimately the budget is thin, so it has to refuse amendments and there's not enough for everyone. Instead of discussing it, we're playing ping pong here. Why, until when and what's the point of that? Next year we'll do this again. What will change for the citizens? Nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22926	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed Ines Strenje-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22927	Dear colleague Topolko, it's really hard for me to listen to what you're saying. And what I'd like you to answer as a replica, which the ministers have been from your county for the last four, eight years, have you ever had a minister from your county, and who the parliamentary representatives were from that county of yours. I will personally make an effort, given that 120 million kuna is planned to invest in primary health care, what will be withdrawn from European funds, and 600 million kuna for united emergency hospital receptions. Part of it needs to see what belongs inside your county, if any of the hospitals have applied. I will personally work on this part of health care to help you with one part of this, since there is still a possibility, of still negotiating another 10m euros for primary health care to withdraw. But once again I call, did you ever have a parliamentary representative from your county or a minister to answer me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22928	They'll respond to the esteemed Bernard Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22929	Thank you. Like this. Right now, of the 113,804 inhabitants, we don't have a minister. To make the paradox bigger we have in the education of the secretary of state right now. In the last term, we had Minister Dark Horvat for Regional Development. We've also had parliamentary representatives, but here's the situation. Obviously, there was never enough hearing for the Međimurjes, and to say that no government has anointed us, any. The last capital investment in schools in Međimurje was in 2006 at a primary school in Kotoriba.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22930	Thank you. The next is a debate by the distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, given that everything is almost said, Mr. Minister, co-workers, so here are my colleagues and colleagues, I'm just going to say that I'm glad to see this budget for the defence ministry's positions as well as for the positions of the Croatian Defence Ministry that have finally experienced satisfaction. We hope that those injustices that have been done to Croatian defenders will be corrected as well. The same for Croatian soldiers, officers and officers. We believe that the night supplement will come back, that there will be a diversional supplement, and a diving supplement and all the things that have been in the diet as well as in the infrastructure, and in the combat characteristics of our vehicles, as well as our helicopters, as well as the donated helicopters from America. We believe that even the defense population will finally be calm and happy with a budget like this. Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22932	Thank you very much. The next debate is the distinguished representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22933	Mr. President... [[Pernar, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22934	Comrade Pernar, a colleague of Djakic has long been finished when you have raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22935	Mr. Speaker of the House of Representatives, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and Associates. What you can hear in these two days since the gauges of this budget are known is that it's optimistic, it's wasteful. I think it's okay that he's optimistic. I think this society, our people lacks more optimism than good. Therefore, but I would say it is realistic because it is based on real indicators for the last year of GDP growth, a reduction in public debt. It is based on the realistically calculated results of the tax reform, and therefore, I think that what is ambitious is that I think that there should be motive for both the government and the Parliament, and for entrepreneurs, the citizenship to do everything to be realized. That was the speech by the prime minister, by the minister. However, I will stay here at what I am here for the part relating to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. As for the items in the budget from this section, I can say that the part relating to the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is that the funds have been increased to about 12 million. As for the items to assist the scientific, cultural, health, educational institutions of the Croats in BiH, this budget also records one increase of about 2.5 million kuna. As regards the other information items, therefore, it is held somewhere at the existing amounts that we have had in the past budget but new information modes have been introduced thanks to the government and HRT's cooperation. There is the voice of Croatia, so a 24-hour radio program that has been broadcast recently on a multimedia platform, so radio, television, social networks. There are new programmes, so we discover Croatia, Croatia is my choice, which is a show or program that is primarily intended for 1st, 2st and 3rd generations of Croats living abroad to motivate them to visit their fathers and great-grandfathers' homeland, to motivate them to study here and perhaps in the future to invest and move. There is, of course, a programme for the Croats in BiH, a view across the border. And, of course, we welcome it all together and we want it to continue that way. What I think is missing, so in this information programme of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is informing Croatian citizens in Croatia about Croatian topics outside the Republic of Croatia because all of these programmes are focused on keeping our emigration and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia informed about events about Croatia, cultural heritage, about the language that is quite good but also that Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia lack information about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Don't let anyone be offended by you, my colleague and fellow MPs, but here I have been hanging out with one of you for almost a year and I can only figure out how knowledge is, for example. about BiH, about the Croats in BiH, superficial and missing. Unfortunately, sometimes we seem to know more about the processes and events around Aleppo, Mosul, Luganjska, Donetska, Crimea, etc. than about events around Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, and certainly events that relate to these cities affect the fate of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and Croatia much more than these remote crisis hotspots. I also want to highlight here a positive part of this budget that concerns both the scholarships of our students and students, and in any case it should be welcomed. What is particularly important in this budget is the increase of funds for Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries. And here, first of all, I want to highlight the assistance or support of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia. People write to me from Serbia that they are exposed to a very process of assimilation. Bunjevac Croats are being blackmailed by employment so they do not plead as Croats. On the other hand, the only elected representative in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zigmanov, is attacked and no one answers to his letters to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. This budget assistance also aims to enable the Croatian minority in Serbia to enter into a negotiating process chapter 23. It also empowers the judiciary and human rights minority in synergy with the Republic of Croatia to elect rights at the level of European standards and at the level of rights which Croatia guarantees to its minorities, and we will insist on that, and that is, of course, the mission and the Committee that I chair both these governments and this Assembly of course. The next thing that is very important is the housing of exiles, refugees in BiH, and there is a retaining item the same as it was last year. I understand that the government in this situation, when the great annuities of payments come, was no longer able to pay off. But what worries me is this trend, these are budget projections for the 18th and 19th year where a certain reduction is foreseen. I was in Banja Luka three days ago at the Assembly of Associations, exiles from the work of northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I can say two things. First, the largest number of housing and infrastructures in Croatian areas has not been published. I would also like to say that the desire to return has not stopped and currently, according to my information, there are about 7,000 Croatians' demands for rebuilding housing in BiH. If every object is predicted by only 80,000 kuna, it's about half a billion kuna. Of course, all these funds cannot fall on the burden of the Republic of Croatia's budget. And that's why I'm appealing here and to the government, and here's the minister who's here for next year and for next year not to cut the funds but to increase. What I also want to point out as an absurd which Croatia has also accepted is that Croatia has also accepted the conditions for the use of the regional return fund that the person has not resolved the housing issue in BiH or Croatia. And imagine if a man or family could live on a branch for 25 years, whether they were working for that time, borrowing, taking loans, etc., and so on, that condition should simply be thrown out of that, using that regional return fund, otherwise people are actually disabled from using it. And finally I want to say that here I do not want to explain how much the Croatians' contribution outside the Republic of Croatia was to establish and defend the Republic of Croatia because this contribution is invaluable and cannot be paid by anything. However, I would like to point out here what the contribution of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to the financial and budgetary stability of the Republic of Croatia is today. Every year, according to the data available to me in the Republic of Croatia, it is estimated to be around a billion euros, and it is estimated that about that much goes through the cash or funds our diaspora brings to Croatia. So it's 16 billion kuna and these are funds that certainly contribute to the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. I also claim that Croats from the BIH are the largest investors outside the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm willing to prove it to someone who doesn't believe it. That is why this entire consolidated amount of budget through the central office, through the ministries is actually one symbolic part of what returns to Croats outside the Croatian budget and in which way the public should not send different messages. Finally, this increased interest of the Republic of Croatia in resolving Croatian issues in the BIH, to create political, economic and social conditions for the stay of Croats in the BIH, this increased interest of the Republic of Croatia in political stabilisation of opportunities in the BIH, this increased activity of the Republic of Croatia to support the inclusion of BIH in NATO is seen in the increased optimism of Croats in the BIH that the final time of solution and Croatian issues has come but is seen unfortunately in the increased anxiety of those who would not want to share BIH with Croats as an equal constituent people, and then we can hear from that nervous and unspeakable outbursts from some political representatives in the BIH and their media epigons towards the highest Croatian officials in Croatia, including the Croatian president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22936	Thank you. We've got more replicas. She's the real John Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22937	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd like to say that listening to Mr. HDZ, his exposure seems to be on the trail of all the other exhibits. So the shift in the state of collective unconsciousness is unfortunately insufficient. It won't move people or pedals. The question is how can Croatia help stop the emigration of Croats from the BiH if they are unable to stop and move Croats from our own country of Croatia? The second question that is being asked is HDZ is constantly grumbling that the reason why Croats from the BIH are running because there is no third entity. Well, here's the HDZ gentlemen, not to have an entity, you have the entire state of the Republic of Croatia, you're in power and the young run away. Nothing would solve that third entity, but these unfortunate people would be in the same situation they are in and here only then in the BIH would have absolute authority at entity level as you now have here. And as for this general HDZ policy, I'm sorry to have to point out that again, but you've changed the 94th role of the CNB Central Bank to the exchange office, you're the ones who are carrying out a devastating monetary policy. Excuse me, I'll be back on the subject. [[Intruder Reiner: Excuse me, speak outside the topic.]] All I'm saying is that this budget that HDZ's been bringing is equal to all the previous budgets that he's been making all these years. This is the continuation of the incontinence of the same policy that I have led us to ruin, which leads us to hell and suffering and assures us that it will take us to heaven and that this is for development and that I already know you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22938	Thank you. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22939	I don't know the party's name because of the frequent changes, so forgive me. So HDZ created the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ led the defence in both BiH and Croatia, defended the Croatian areas in the BiH and where Croatia's Republic of Croatia and others lived under the leadership of HDZ and HVO. Where there was no such thing today almost no Croats. What I am saying is we are not asking for help from HDZ or SDP we are asking that in partnership with the institutions of the Republic of Croatia we worry that Croatians preserve their political subjectivity in the BIH because this is a prerequisite for long-term and stability, so that I, the hard and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, know what it meant for Croats in the BiH border areas of southern BiH for the defence of southern Croatia south of Split. Some may have forgotten, then, that when the tanks stopped at the border of the general public that they were going to join the Corps from the north of Croatia from Split. Therefore, I speak here out of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and not just the interest of the Croats in the BIH because I think it's a common interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22940	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go. You're the one who picked up the tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22941	You made me a little confused with the last replica because I'm going to tell you he didn't release HDZ and fought in Bosnia or fought primarily in the Croatian Army, and the members of the Croatian Army were members of all the peoples and members of all the parties, and that doesn't stand. But what I wanted to tell you is that once again we need to repeat one of the worst, saddest amendments that I've received here on the table, and that's what the citizens of Croatia have to hear, and that's the amendment that offends the entire population of our country, which is poor and which needs support, but all those members of the HVO who fought in BiH as well as members of the Croatian Army who went there to help out, we know that we had to end up at the end of the Storm. And that is our colleague's amendment, and I would like to see if Croatian citizens hear that one colleague has suggested that five billion kunas be removed from the position of social care and that the Ministry of Defence redistribute that money to solve the accumulated problems and give status to Croatian defenders to members of the HVO, etc. equated with members of HV, MUP, etc. to exercise their rights. But when a man thinks that he really wanted it in good faith, then he ends up with five billion kunas that would be given to HVO members, we'll take from our most endangered fellow social aid users because they have little and not enough to live a normal life anyway, but in that, the former minister of social security said, "Let them die." It's the most embarrassing amendment that we could read today, and here there's everything, everyone had at will, but this is something that's absolutely unacceptable that in this way we treat our members of the HVO that we need to solve but not in this humiliating way to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22942	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22943	... an opportunity to actually comment on this. So I read that amendment and I couldn't believe it. It was my first reaction, so Young Delic, so my people could do it. So is it possible that the defence minister is referring in this way, the former defence minister refers to Croatian defenders. And I've heard a few more of these debates that were actually intrinsically in the same way, and also from the honourable Vice President of Mr. Vrdoljak's Parliament, so he's not here right now, but I'm going to say what I think. So when I heard that and when I heard it from a man sitting today at the top of the party founded by Savka Dabčević Kučar, whose name I ran as a participant in the Croatian Spring of '71. I couldn't believe that man didn't realize that members of HVO are Croatian defenders who defended Croatia both in BiH and Croatia and that their rights do not stem from contributions to pension insurance, but their rights stem from the defence of the Republic of Croatia and their rights stem from their lost parts of the body and their lost family members. And as far as this amendment is concerned, I can't tell you that this amendment has been filed by the former Minister of Defense. And as for this part at the beginning of what you noticed, I think I said that Croatia was created and defended under the leadership of HDZ, which is true, of course because HDZ was the leading party. After all, of course, if I said otherwise, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22944	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed Mira Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22945	Thank you very much. I will repeat what I said, Croats in BiH have every right and Croatia is obliged by the Constitution to take care of its citizens in BiH. The fact is that it wasn't the government that did it the way they were supposed to do it, i.e. To assist the institutions for the survival of Croats in BiH, so one constituent people has been brought into an unequal position essentially one of the positions where the survival of Croats is at stake. That is why I call on all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to do their best to survive the Croats, and in particular now we are waiting for one verdict for our six-member generals in The Hague, where they were left alone for years, where they defended themselves, where they did not even want to finance the documented book of our country did not want to finance a book documented by our General Praljak, where the relationship was a disastrous, disastrous relationship with the Croats in BiH who gave great pain in the Homeland War. And at the beginning of the Homeland War in Croatia, and also one of those who has been in BiH for more than a year on the battlefields with these boys, so that this amendment also disappointed me in the sense that we must not share the Croatian Army either at the Defence Council or at the Croatian Army. Together, we have freed from the great Serb Chetnic aggression and BiH and Croatia are facts and Croats in BiH, and this is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia from the president to the government, to Parliament and to all other institutions to protect the interests of Croats in BiH as we do in the Republic of Croatia. They are our citizens, they are the ones who must survive there, if the Croats have defended BiH from major Serb aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22946	Thank you very much. They will respond to the esteemed Ljubic Bozo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22947	Well, dear counterpart Bulj, I agree with you that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia and the constitutional obligation to care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, including BiH, but when it comes to the survival of the Croatian people in BiH as a political entity, then it is also the first-class strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in each respect, both in terms of security and in economic and in each other. What I also want to say here now, through circumstances and by our pawning here in the Assembly Croatia has awakened in this regard, this has also contributed to the unfortunate arrest of Croatian military commanders from Posavina, and in any case I believe that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to help defend Croatian commanders and HVO majors because in this way...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22948	Comrade Pernar, I'm sorry, you can't eat pizza in the hall here. It's really enough of that shit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22949	However, here I end up having to do with some optimism and confidence looking to the future because certain things move forward. A few days ago, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court adopted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Election Law and a change of its articles on the basis of which it was possible for the Bosniak majority in Sarajevo to form in two ways the authorities in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina without legitimate Croatian representatives, and I hope that in this process of joining Bosnia and Herzegovina, the necessary constitutional changes will also be made to enable the full equality of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then this kind of concern that we now have will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22950	Thank you. The next debate is distinguished MPs Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, today you present to us the most important document that you can present to us in the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the state budget is a debate on the future of the country. You're aware of that, aren't you? A debate about the future of four and a half million people, about their fates. And that's why the budget has never been and will never be pure mathematics. He's a lot, a lot more than that. We're discussing today how four and a half million people will live, but not today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but in two, four or six years. Of course everyone always expects a lot from the budget. That makes sense. It's simply a strategic, key document that builds and develops this country, of course, if you planned it. In this document we must find structural essential, economic, developmental reforms, of course, if you planned them. That's where we should find your party's pre-election promises if you're a serious party. That's where we should find what was in the Government Programme, of course, if you're a serious party. If you keep your promises and you intend to keep them. I've heard a lot today about this being a very ambitious budget. I couldn't agree with that. I think he was made in the service of local elections, that he was made to make many happy, but if many or all are satisfied, then I wonder what kind of long-term implications he has and if it's good for Croatia. It seems to me that I can agree that the budget is social because everyone got something, everyone got a little bit. No one's enough for development and for investment, but still enough for no one to complain. And I can't seem to take away the impression that we've lost valuable time with the past government that dealt with itself, and now we have a situation that the government you're the minister of doesn't have enough courage through this budget to present to us new projects. New projects for growth and for the development of the economy for reforms necessary for the development of Croatia's society and the Croatian economy and for creating a precondition for new steps in terms of the country's development. It would be a shame indeed to go back to crazy spending without cover and new enormous responsibilities if it is not for the purpose of the development of Croatian society. What's kind of worrying me, or I'm very sorry, is that today you represent the budget, regardless of what the SDP through its four-year work has left you in some way a prerequisite to be ambitious and to be very brave, to start at speed five. I think we left you with all the preconditions. Let's let go of the impressions that politics are very strong and important, just get it, I don't mind. So let's let go of the impressions that politics are very important and very common, sometimes by deciding, but I would still like to stick to the fact in my debate. And the facts say Milanovic's government left you some good things. She left you GDP growth, left you export growth, left you growth in industrial production, left you a budget in surplus, left you the lowest unemployment rate in the last six years. I wish we had inherited what you inherited from us. If only Milanovic's government had inherited what we left for you. ... How about a little louder, Mr. Bull? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't hear it right. Go ahead. I believe we could take a very good chance. And I'm sorry because, as Bernardic said in his act today, we are not here to say "l'art pour l'lart", we are not just here to criticize you. And we care about you being a successful government, you and my minister, you're my government, and I'm interested in you being successful and doing your job well. I would very much like you to make a precedent minister. You're already known for a lot of things, so be known for adopting amendmental opposition to those who are good, who make sense, which will help, I don't know, local environments get funds for some good and quality projects, to build schools, to make good things for this country. You may not believe it because we are the opposition but we are the opposition, it is our duty, it is our duty to warn you of things, to help you in some way and all in some kind of mutual interest. I think the budget does not offer solutions to some major problems of Croatian society and is not in line with your pre-election promises and even less with the government's programme as I have already mentioned. It even seems to me that through this budget you show and do not understand the current context in which Croatia is located. It's not ambitious for me to spend more than we make. So we have one extremely large growth in the spending side, even 6.8 billion or 1.9% of GDP, which is not a good thing to create a new value. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you nicely, so there are no major infrastructure projects, and that's too bad, so O.K. is to have a big expense or deficit but if, if the money you borrowed or you're going to borrow direct it to large projects, and Racan's government had great expenditures and a great deficit but it directed it to some structural projects, it directed it into building roads, we connected the north and south, today I can not know who's talking about it but the fact that we have created extremely important conditions for the development of tourism among other things and not just tourism. So I wish I could see in this budget these big projects that would be important for Croatia's development but unfortunately I don't see them as I don't see them and how we're going to encourage for example. Building schools, sports halls. How? In a way to stop a public-private partnership like you did. Where is the solution to health care in this budget? For the last nine months, we've managed to accumulate another billion debts in the health care system. So who else doesn't understand that we have a system that's completely unsustainable? And do you have in your budget a response and solutions to these problems? I don't think so. In the end, let me finish by saying that Croatia is indeed a small country and there is little of us and we are not a great economic power in some global frameworks and our impact on global global flows is relatively small but our opportunities and potentials to create and develop society are not small but it should be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22952	The Honorable Pernar was the first to lift the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22953	Thank you, Your Honor. Listening to a colleague from the SDP, I liked his exposure, all that she said I would agree with it just to point out that and everything she said on the HDZ budget to be applied to the SDP budgets that were being made. And it's actually the biggest tragedy. As for her remarks that Zoran Milanovic left the lowest unemployment rate, I remember that was last year's election campaign at the time 500 fewer people were unemployed and then even the SDP had a commercial to hire 500 people per week, probably you remember that, however, the actual number of employees did not grow. And then the question arises how is it possible that the number of unemployed falls by 500 a week and the number of employees does not rise. The answer is that, in your term of office, 100,000 people have escaped from our country. And that's that magic formula that SDP liquidated unemployment. Unfortunately HDZ uses the same formula, and if you two continue to apply that formula, we will come to the conclusion that young people in this country will no longer be. And you will cry out then we eradicated youth unemployment while you will eventually realize that young people in this country are gone. I am not just saying this for the sake of the young people who are in this country today, but also for all the young people who have left it both in the mandates of the SDP and in the mandates of the HDZ and who will one day if God sees this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22954	Thanks will be answered by distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22955	I would never dare say that in Croatia everything worked phenomenally while it was in the government of Milanovic. I wouldn't dare say that like I wouldn't dare say that we've solved all the problems we've had in Croatia. And I agree absolutely that every government can do more and it's always about some new challenges for the next government. We opened the borders, we became the land of a great community. Young people have always left Croatia. And when we opened the borders, of course they wanted to go after some new challenges. However, they also left because of the economic situation in Croatia and let's not lie to each other. The truth should be told when we talk about it, but fellow Pernar should also be told when you talk about unemployment that the records held by the Pension Insurance Office showed that employment at the time of Milanovic's government grew. Those are facts and let's not twist them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22956	Thank you. The next replica is Ines Strenja-Linić's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22957	Dear colleagues, I'd just like you to say have you seen anything good in this budget? Since you have not listed here I will just remind you to comment whether it is good that after decades and decades of not investing in the Rijeka Hospital where you come from, there are currently four doctors from the same city, and three doctors from that city, in the last 10, 15 years, the parliamentary representatives will finally come to the almost project that was standing, which did not start because Milanovic's government did not bring the documents that allowed this construction to start and finally start with something that is actually capital investment in the health care of an entire region that was unnecessarily neglected. I can only repeat the words of Mr. Slavko Linic who once faced me, who, after all my arguments, when he didn't know what to say, said there was no political will. Well, you'd like to comment on whether at least that's the one thing in this budget that you're saying is a good thing that we did? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22958	Thank you. The respected Romana Jerkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22959	Comrade Linic, don't... from the same city and we're trying to do the best we can for our city and for our region. I greatly appreciate your efforts and I wouldn't want to demean them in any way, but you know you're in power and I'm an opposition, so don't be angry. I, my duty and my duty is not to praise the budget that the government has made, but it is my duty to point out some things that are not good and that I think should be better. I really think, and behind that I stand with all due respect for your engagement against the Rijeka Hospital, I really admit it, I have the right to say that I think that this budget is based on illusions, on the illusion that we are living in a good environment, on the illusion that Brexit was not, on the illusion that in Italy the phenomenal situation is on the illusion that the banking sector will remain calm and stable I expect a new rebalancing and very quickly. And thank you for everything you've done for the Rijeka Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22960	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22961	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We've got a budget ahead of us. We've been discussing what's democratic here for hours. I'd just mention a few items. Here you mentioned this morning the debt and interest that we must return in 2017, indeed I always... ask myself the question also as a parliamentary representative and also a number of citizens why Croatia owed 300 billion kunas and essentially did not develop but stagnated? The question is, where is this money invested? A number of investments such as the Croatian highways are mentioned, and when the Croatian highways were being built and the gram of Croatian iron in Croatian highways was not set, grama. And at that point, the Split Ironworks were crying out for work. So import lobbys, shops, smuggling lobbys have brought this system in a way that we have to pay back as much as I understand 11 billion kunas this year just interest. In fact, I'm asking myself the question of who gave the right to anyone to be in charge of us in this way? Has he ever been on the charge of a referendum? And why are we like a country in debt slavery? That's for thinking, all ordinary citizens are given 300 billion kuna, and we've never been more underdeveloped. It's about investing and pro for my colleagues who just spoke. We mentioned here the defense, that in the defense had more money the Croatian soldier deserved to have better living conditions, to have a better diet and to have bigger salaries. The Croatian professional soldier is on the sidelines. I mentioned literally once that it was saddened to mention investments in some kind of investment, repairs of aviation, once I said that combat planes went on a proper flight and were returned in parts, in carivols, or points of understanding better until the same Croatian soldier had no separate life, no night, no guards, no duty. I'm saying this because I was a Croatian soldier for 20 years, and I know the good stuff, and I went to the military station right here in the middle of Zagreb is Croatia, which is in ruins. It hasn't invested, and we're in NATO. A professional soldier must have, be a soldier, be a diameter of what we should look like and represent the world primarily in the missions we have. I'm looking at regional development, here in front of me I have an amendment that I wrote, I know this government isn't guilty, I know that the Regional Development Act where the indexation was unfair in 2014 by the indexation that was made in 2009 or 2010 in the Government of Jadranka Kosor but the SDP passed the 2014 coalition unfair law where the undeveloped ends were declared the most developed in essence remained centralization, it was all down to Zagreb and what we have, someone mentioned that they were open borders and that our young people were leaving. Yes, the Dalmatian Zagora, the backdrop of the Dalmatian Zagora, Hercegovina, Lika, were the ends which were human resources from which people came to Zagreb and the EU. What's going on now? They're leaving and they're not coming back. Now they're empty ends, and if it's a model to brag that we've reduced unemployment, just before, a colleague said they've reduced unemployment at the Employment Service, and basically these young people have evicted, and mainly from those areas that have been covered by the war, which have suffered worse in the past 20 years than during the Turkish Empire, a greater harrass and exploitation of those parts, and simply there's nothing coming back to those ends. And talk about some kind of regional development in Slavonia today, where agriculture is destroyed it's pointless if I'm going to repeat one more fact, five billion kuna in the last five years has been invested in the incentives of dairy production. We had 64 thousand dairy producers and we satisfied over 60% of the production. And in the last five years, when we've invested five billion kunas, we've only got four thousand dairy producers. The OPGs dealing with dairy production, and again at the end of the EU's rural development fund, went to the bosses. That's why they moved people out of Slavonia. So our policy is not good, but it was criminally directed towards Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski Kotar and it all came down to Zagreb. And something in tourism. Then they say well here are Slavons who can come when the tourist season is on the coast and earn a seasonal kuna. No, it needs to be the other way around. Green Slavonia should sell its products in tourism, meaning a blend of blue Adriatic and green Slavonia. Demography, in these areas my people very little can hear children crying. I remember when Darko Milinović closed the birthplace of Sinjsko, then protested, is it not here, in 2008, in 2009, the closure of the Sinj children's town of Alkarje, which numbers more inhabitants than Lika, unfortunately the fall of both Lika and my Dalmatian Zagora and the Cetina province, I remember that they were saying there is not enough delivery. Yes, unfortunately I see that they were right, less and less our children are born in those parts. If we don't target the most intelligent policy, do we need to know that from 2014 to 2015. Thirty-six thousand inhabitants of Croatia had, now imagine the size of a city of 36 thousand inhabitants in one year. We have a huge fall, and I hope that this budget will not only be a wish list, but it will actually come true. When we talk about these areas for some kids is, I'm talking about sports, about luxury halls that were built for handball championships, here I'm going to mention in my area of Velovo or some sub-Svilaj village... where there's no water, no water supply people don't have. It is simple that Croatia must be decentralised and we must understand that these areas are prior to extinction. It's easy to get the cattle back, it's easy to get the machines back, but if we don't have human potential in those areas or the resources are free of us. And the only thing we can keep these ends to do is to work through entrepreneurial politics, entrepreneurship and through various encouraging measures to recover demographics is it is unimaginable that children in these parts today do not have free textbooks, their parents do not work, while in Zagreb they have free textbooks where they are rich. I'd say one more time about sports, while some people don't respect the Sports Act and spend money on our public, kids in these areas can't have conditions, I can't see the hall if I let them practice in the parquet. So I would ask the minister here, I gave the amendment to read it, it's not a big deal. It is about these parts and certain local self-governments a very small amount to take a good look at this amendment and that at least one drop in the sea until the Regional Development Act is corrected, Minister Tolusic promised in 2017, unfortunately the promise is not... that there will be a change of indexation, unfortunately the promise has not been carried out. Now promises by the new Regional Development Minister in 2017, 2018 would be applicable to the new index, but this would be a correction to the injustice that the minister did in 2016 in the rebalancing process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22962	Thank you. The Republic has an esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22963	Thank you. Respect. I listened to my colleague Mira Bulja, and I saw that he looked back at one element or moment at the SDP, and since the Rules of Procedure did not allow me to directly replicate Mrs. Romani Jerkovic from the SDP, then I will replicate to Mr. Bulje that economic situation that SDP left behind. I read the title of the article "SDP destroyed Croatia, never a small number of employees and workers". Watch this "based on administrative sources in October 2015" means it is just the end of their government, "one million and 328 thousand 800 persons employed in Croatia have been recorded" Watch this data says: This is the number of employees, the lowest in history since there has been comparison data, meaning since 1996. So, in the last nineteen years, it has been the lowest number of jobs in this SDP finale of the government, which Mrs. Romana Jerkovic called successful, and which she said she started Croatia and where she was lucky, says that HDZ left Croatia to them in the state in which they left it. My people, who are we kidding? I'll be in the debate when my ten minutes come, I'll propose one solution, originally, where I'll offer a solution to this situation where we are and I think maybe a part of you will agree with it. I'm very interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22964	Great, we're looking forward to it. .../Laughter./... Now he'll probably answer something from fellow Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22965	Mr. Pernar, here's exactly what we expect these solutions, the magic wands to be dealt with. What do you say? I didn't just look back at SDP's policy but all the governments in the last 20 years, because the fact that 300 billion kunas of debt now welcomed this government only interest 11 billion kunas. The total of 33 billion should be invested, i.e. should be solved with Croatian highways and numerous problems, which leave us 33 billion kuna. But it's real to me, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to say it again, it's unimaginable that we have 300 billion debts in the Republic of Croatia, and in this state. So where's that 300 billion kuna money? Where is this invested, what is it invested in? The only thing I know about what's invested and what's wrong with the century and what's going to pay for generations is these sports halls that were built for handball championships that stand like adverbs, which aren't cost-effective, wasn't a study of cost-effectiveness at all, but everything on the burden again ends that are under the source and potential. So I'm not only objecting to SDP or HDZ, it's not important at all, it's the fact that 300 billion kunas of debt, and where is this invested? That's the problem. And unfortunately, this government only interest rate 11 billion kunas must be returned and I hope that solutions will come up and hopefully one day the people will really wonder who approved and who the government would be in charge of these amounts. Thank you very much, I'm sure it's not the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22966	To the replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22967	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. I would also be pleased that this increase in defence goes into what you said, that the higher wages to our soldiers, but if you looked at the budget then you will see that the salaries remain the same. So, 2.5 billion kuna will be allocated to staff costs and personal support, so that's identical. Under 400 million kuna increases you can see exactly what it's going into. So, one piece goes into these hoodies famous that we bought 40 million euros in two years. I don't know who we're going to beat with those 80 kilometers, I really don't get it, but good. On the other hand, I don't know if anyone's planting a defense minister, but when you see an increase in investment in information equipment, I really don't understand how someone hasn't already potentiated it since you know where and from which environment the minister comes from. In the next two years, 60 million kuna will be invested in information equipment. So it's not money that pays people, it's something else. It's all very clear. It goes a little bit into adaptation, but not much more than over the years. The most money goes I told you in the hood and in the information and communication equipment. Of these 60 million kunas will be invested in network equipment, in computers for the next two years. So I'm not saying that it's now accidental or intentionally coincided with the ministry of General Krstičević, but I find it really interesting that last year it was invested in equipment or over the past three, four million, and now suddenly 23, and next year, as many as 40 million kuna goes into computers, information equipment. So these are the things that money will go to and I wouldn't mind, believe me, if it went to pay, but it doesn't go to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22968	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22969	My colleague Maras...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22970	Who hasn't called to ask for a word, but I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, I don't know if the company you're talking about is. by General Krstičević, how much she did business while you were in power with your defence minister and other segments, you certainly know better because you were in the government, but it is certain that we will follow here who we are sitting, I am in the Defence Committee, as much as we invest. There should be investment, but this is mainly the conditions of the lives of Croatian soldiers and the improvement of their standards. Because it's embarrassing where it's at. The fact is, investments were in billions of kunas. Somewhere I shouldn't have, so I once said, I'm going to repeat here in the Parliament, while he was your former party president, club president. I said it was strange for me that the planes on a normal flight went to Ukraine and returned to parts of the fighting in the cariola. It's really weird to me, in a cario in parts, and it was huge money, and it really invested in soldiers, in professional soldiers, in soldiers, in their wages, in their standards, in their achievement of standards. Surely one of the conditions was at least those funds had gone there would have been much better, and in the adaptations of military and investment in Croatian soldiers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22972	Next is the debate of the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I will dedicate this debate to two things, which are credibility and responsibility. I'll start with responsibility. Dear Mr. Minister, I've looked at some basic figures in the 2017 budget and I've noticed a slight discrepancy. You plan to increase revenue by 4.5% and increase expenditure by 5.5%. Isn't that irresponsible? Isn't that irresponsible especially in the 2016 budget when expenditure was higher than income? Isn't that irresponsible when we know we don't have that money and we have to borrow it from somewhere. But that's not the only question the ministers are going to ask you. A few days of debate on whether the GDP growth rate for 2017 is planned at 3.2% real or not. I don't get into it because we don't have the knowledge to assess GDP growth. But what I'm going to get into is math. Dear Ministers, as well as the GDP growth rate of 3.2% in 2017 is real. Is it realistic on this basis to plan an increase in expenditure of 5.5%? Thus, the increase in expenditure is greater than that of the dubious increase in GDP that we have seen in debt, not in the real resources that exist in the Republic of Croatia, not in the real resources that will be collected from the Croatian economy, especially from the hospitality generated by GDP growth but also in debt. You're holding on to Mr. Minister's head, and you need to, because this year when you tried to do it on the international market, you failed, and now you're planning it again. However, this is a matter of responsibility. And the second question is credibility and consistency. I'll remind you six months ago, you sat very self-lovingly in the rooms of this House and the Committee on European Affairs, presenting something called the National Reform Programme. Do you remember him, Minister? I remember him very well because I then asked you a few questions concerning the feasibility of this national reform programme. Although the prime minister was the second coalition in power was the same. You were also Minister of Finance in the government of the Republic of Croatia, in the coalition were MOST and HDZ. Both parties have sworn in this national reform programme and today you are violating it. I'll show you how. Minister, do you know that in the national reform programme that you presented, you personally committed yourself to reducing the wage of employees in the Republic of Croatia by 2% by 2018. That's when we warned you it was bad. Then we warned you it was harmful, then it was good. Today in the 2017 budget when this national reform programme should be implemented, do you know what you are predicting for the salary mass? Growth of 3.5% for 2017. By 2108, further 1.7%. In April of this year, you promised the European Commission that you would reduce the amount of wages, now you are increasing it. Simple question, when you're not telling the truth? Now? Or did you not tell the truth in April 2016? A very simple question, two documents, both documents you're the author. The distance is 6 months, the data is completely diametrically opposite and different. But that's not all. Ministers, in that same document we sent to the European Commission, you made a commitment and reduced public debt. As you saw at the beginning of my presentation, this budget foresees an increase in deficits compared to 2016. I won't speak in my presentation on certain items. That's what my colleagues were talking about. I won't say how you again my county, my Istria, my Pula damaged. I'm not going to talk about how you predicted for the University of Pula an item that is in the 98% amount intended for staff expenditures. So the University of Pula gets money from the RH budget 98% for employees. And for development, for education, for education, 2%. But I won't talk about it, I'll talk about credibility. And I'm going to ask you a very simple question. Minister, did you tell the truth today, last week when you represented the budget at the government or in April 2016 when you sent a reform programme to the European Commission, which you are now looking at on the right hand side of this assembly swearing to me or not today?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22974	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first, of course, is the esteemed John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22975	Thank you, Chairman. I saw, I wanted to say something else first, but I will look back on the comment by Peđa Grbin on Minister of our Marić, says how could you say that the debt would decrease and the deficit, but in the end the debt grew. Well simply Mr. Peja Grbin because in a monetary system based on credit, in which money is on its own, that debt can only grow under interest, it can never be returned. You can never get more money back than it's borrowed, you're always in debt to pay back the previous debt, and that's the same policy the SDP has implemented. Well, you've knocked up that debt just as much as it is now being pumped by HDZ. You'll pump that up until the day of judgment or until the whole story collapses like a map tower. And as for how to say irresponsibility, I just told your colleague, Mr. Bull, but I replicated my colleague, so last year SDP left the lowest number of employees in the 10th month since unemployment officially took place to say so since 1996. And I'll read you said Mr. Maras wrong, here's Mr. Maras dear,... and Mr Maras million was and now I'm going to read to you, the same administrative number of employees in October 2015 has been at the lowest level since there are some relevant data. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For a comparison in '96. So that number you left is 1 million and 328 thousand 838. So SDP's behavior is just as irresponsible as HDZ's behavior. I just wanted to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22976	Thank you. The Honorable Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22977	Dear colleague Pernar, you are extremely informative, which you have proven several times, and given the degree of informational literacy you possess, I would like to ask you to go to the website of the State Statistics Institute www.dzs.hr in the upper left corner to find a link that will refer you to the statistics. You will open that link, then you will scroll down a little bit and somewhere near the end of that network site under the link you will find employment data measured by the State Statistics Office. In these employment data, you will find that in the first three months of this year, so at the time the SDP was leaving the government and HDZ came the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia was about 1 million 580 thousand employees, which at that time was 20,000 employees more, 20 thousand employees than it was a year earlier. So, Mr. Pernar, please take advantage of your knowledge, use your information literacy and find the right information. However, I will add one more thing, when you and your replica have come out of everything I will come out of it, perhaps the chairman will allow me if I do not apologize, but I will answer your reply to the replica you brought out before. You have called the SDP for hundreds of thousands, pardon the citizens of this country who have emigrated from Croatia for our term of office. The figure was first used by Mr Karamarko in 2013. So now I'm asking you when you're doing the data on a flat-rate basis if in 2013, it was the fact that 100 thousand people from Croatia came out of the SDP, which means no one left until the end of that term. And you and I both know that's not true, and you and I know that numbers are a little different, so learn to comment on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22978	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're reading the documents you're discussing carefully, so you've probably changed these data you've read a little from what it says in those documents. In fact, the growth of expenditure affecting the deficit of the state budget is below the growth of the revenues of the state budget. In one part, these expenditures are also higher because they show funds that the central state will forward to local self - administration at 1 billion and 300 million kuna. On the other hand, you say that incomes are growing faster than GDP, I told you this morning it seems to me in the replica of Mr. Vrdoljak, and now I'm going to tell you that, to GDP growth of 3.2%, there are certain research and indicators that say that the growth of the income of the state budget could be greater than what the minister or government projected. I therefore believe that even in the part of increasing the revenues of the state budget and given the projected GDP growth of 3.2% of governments, there was still an opportunity to increase the revenues of the state budget, making the deficit of the state budget even smaller. It's not because she left the possibility that during the time ahead, she would leave the possibility that other expenditures could still be saddened. And that's what Mr. Mrssic and you mentioned on several occasions this morning, so the government has left the possibility to rebalance the budget some more expenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22980	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the coat of arms will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22981	Dear counterpart Bačić, when we discussed the 2016 budget from this same place, I warned you of an interesting item, which was the item of European projects at the University of Pula which you were then reduced by one forty times. And I warned you it was unsustainable. You, of course, shook your hand, said you were practically Pedja banging nonsense and voted in the budget as the ministry suggested. After that, a few weeks ago you adopted a budget rebalance for 2016 and what did you do for the University of Pula programmes? All of what I asked you to do with the amendment. And why is that? Because what was planned in that budget was not realistic. That's the situation with this budget that you now have entirely. You're talking about some nice things, have you heard of an operation that took place during World War II called "Market Garden". It was one of the biggest right-wing operations in history that had only one flaw was based on the premise that everything that would happen during the operation would be okay, that everything that was planned would happen. And you know what reality is? The reality is that the best plans are the rarest to come true. That's why my whole debate is about telling you that what you suggested isn't real. And if something isn't real, then it's irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22982	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative Boris Lalovec. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. After that, the distinguished representative Vedran Babic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next is the distinguished representative of Stjepan Kovač. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next is distinguished representative Josip Klisovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22983	Respect. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I said that I have an original solution to get out of this whole situation, I think you'll find it interesting, I think it'll be interesting to the public, and what's going on here in Parliament has 151, we're parliamentary representatives of the government, we've been elected by the people in the elections, we, if we want to agree together and form a government together, non-party without Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, without Mr. Maric and all of these ergels we have there on Mark's square. I'm sorry, but I want to say this. [[Intruder Reiner: I would ask you to use an appropriate dictionary, not to call the government ergel.]] We have the opportunity of a dear colleague, to agree with each other, and all of these amendments that you have from the SDP, colleagues from the MOST, colleagues from the HDZ, all of the ideas, we can put all of this together on the table, we can do all that, we can even change the National Bank Act, we can vote all of it. People we're the real government in this country, we're Parliamentarians. But instead of doing that, we turned ourselves in to partying. So HDZ keeps its story, the SDP keeps its story, and the only thing that changes in that story is to rotate HDZ and SDP indefinitely. And that rotation comes down in a way that they're predicating the same thing by accusing each other that the budget was badly designed not to accept the amendments, but what it's about, and even when the SDP was mostly not accepting HDZ's amendments. Nothing has changed, ladies and gentlemen. And the only way for all amendments to be accepted, to raise enough money for everything is to reject an EU policy that imposes on us what we may be short of, how much we can spend, what we can spend on, etc. The state has a central bank of the CNB and the state can, by amending the National Bank Act, allow it to be financed directly from the National Bank and for all these amendments, all these piles of paper on the tables would be found enough money. On the other hand, if we agree that there is not enough money in this system, then what is the point of giving these amendments, then it turns out that these amendments are pro-forms, forms, and not because they are believed that these amendments could change anything. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is our great responsibility that we do, which will be the final conclusion of this multi-hour, I would also call it a marathon debate? The final conclusion is that nothing will change, the budget will be adopted as the government has imagined it and essentially nothing will change. Speaking of distribution, I have proposed a revolutionary amendment, the amendment has one unusual solution, and he says this way, that social benefits increase by 50% to all impoverished people, to raise that guaranteed minimum social assistance fee, payments, etc. For 50%. And the question is, where does it come from? My solution is this: a new one going to NATO military missions or they say the mission's pensions, although it's oxymoron, is the pension of a military alliance mission to reroute that money to the poor. And I know that HDZ will reject this proposal because it's more important for them to have a war, to have it for military equipment and to have it for American masters who wage global wars around the world, than to solve social problems in their own country. Here I listened to my colleagues from the SDP that many problems were unresolved, and Roma were often mentioned, if I were not mistaken, that they had many problems, and that the government had no hearing for them, gentlemen of the HDZ wouldn't it be more logical for Prime Minister Plenkovic to travel there in Ukraine to visit, say, Roma settlements and to offer here I have a solution to your problem. Why? Because he can solve these problems in Roma settlements, there may be some resources, etc. And for the problem in Ukraine, there's no solution here either. And then by looking at this whole debate, I see that simply this government I don't alibi in this previous one because essentially they're all the same, and they're servant and puppet, and there's no will or intention, and no desire to change anything. In other words, politics continues to change nothing. As long as we're not looking at it as Parliamentarians? I don't know. As far as I'm concerned, there's a will for you to tell me tomorrow, "John, let's form together some power that would be revolutionary, which would lead to a change in this system that pushes us all together into a break-in, I would raise my hand and say, "Let's go." But what's going on here, or what's going on here, is that the formation of a government or government is about personneling out who's going to be the minister of what, who's going to be President of the Parliament, who's going to lead this, who's going to lead it. And that's one percent of the things that change in these human cruises, but for 99 percent of the people change the government in this country unfortunately doesn't bring anything. Why? Because power is not its goal of changing the lives of citizens for the better, but the purpose of government is to come to power, or power is to make sense of itself, and this budget shows it. This budget as well as previous budgets will essentially change nothing in Croatia. You'll see quickly, quickly, quickly. In a year we'll meet again in the same situation. This is how we're gonna sit. All the problems we've had, we'll have them back then. So this budget won't solve anything. I'm trying to point out, I'm trying to point out that it is necessary to change the policy primarily of the Croatian National Bank, but unfortunately in this high house, there is no hearing in my words. And why, I don't know. If we all understand or realize that this is an important question, then why not do something about it? Until when HDZ and the SDP will be throwing mud at each other and claiming to be their own government that was the worst of all governments. And why every government that's last is the worst. Because the system is such that it has a negative tendency, and every government that comes in here is actually superfluously one worse than the other. So, in Sanader's day, it seemed to be worse than the SDP. Then at the time of Jadranka Kosor seemed to have been better in the time of Sanader. Then when the SDP came, it seemed that it was better in the time of Jadranka Kosor. Now that HDZ seems to have been better or it's all going round, but basically one government is worse than the other, because I say the system has a negative tendency. And Minister Maric, who sits here with us and listens to us all this time, I'm sure he's asking himself why they're doing this, which is the point of this debate, until when this debate will last. So, the only thing that's agreeing like a tailor is that budget, which he's wondering, is how long will this debate last, and it'll only take a few more minutes and finally what will it end? It will end with a consensus, a quiet consensus about essentially being brought as a new budget, but basically everything remains the same. I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry about the young people who are going to leave our country by bus the day after tomorrow, either yesterday or today. For the people who dig through the trash and eat in the soup kitchen. There's no change for them for the better, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22984	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22985	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, today you have taken up one thesis that is absolutely not correct, which is that you pulled the sign of equality between HDZ and SDP. I know it can be this nice to say, but I'll give you an example. You said governments were the ones in Croatia who were always listening outside and were puppets. Well, now you have an exact example that the Government of Zoran Milanovic did not listen to orders outside and did not do what the European Central Bank or the European Commission wanted. It's about the Law on the conversion of credit into the Swiss franc. So, if that's exactly what you're saying, we would never propose this law in 2015 and protect 50,000 Croatian families from unfair racketeering with one currency or one of the phallic products that the Croatian National Bank allowed in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 to apply in Croatia. So this is a concrete example of how the SDP is not and will not look at the interest of the European Union before the interests of its people or the Republic of Croatia. There are many more, but I think this example was felt by all, 50,000 Croatian families, and they saw it wider. You will remember more examples, but I think this is the most complex one, so please do not say that the Government of Zoran Milanovic was a puppet or that she listened to the dictatorship of those who are trying to impose their economic will from European and global centres of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22986	The honourable representative Ivan Pernar will answer, but please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22987	Mr. Maras, I deeply appreciate you. However, Napoleon Bonaparte said long ago that the hand that gives is always above the hand he receives. If our government is dependent on foreign bank loans or the functioning of the state depends on foreign bank loans, who is the one who makes the real decisions in our country. Is that us in the Parliament, is it Minister Maric or is it Prime Minister Plenkovic or are those foreign banks that have the power over money. In my view, since they privatised the process of money creation and since the state is dependent on them, and not on the state as it should be, our country has found itself in a subordinate position against them. To claim that the government is not puppetary based on one single move and given all the other moves, I think it's incorrect. But I'll tell you one thought. If the government hadn't fixed the franc course as you mentioned it would have been her end, the people would have gone out into the streets and there would have been a total breakdown. So this measure did not come to the conclusion that the government has shown which is puppetic, that it is not puppetic, but has actually ensured its existence, or continuity. However, one theory says politically that every government is seeking its continuity and we see parties constantly changing in power, which means that the real holder of the government is neither HDZ nor SDP, but foreign banks located above them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22988	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22989	Mr. Pernar, who would be prime minister? Who would the Prime Minister be if you did? ... Listen, you have the Republic of Croatia, we have a number of disagreements. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, there is a procedure for you, the people elected MPs here and most of them decided. So if you're dispensing most of the Ministers still the Constitution, exactly the prescribed procedure, the only thing you can do is revolution, you know. Because the Constitution has set out exactly when elections are either extraordinary or regular, when they are discussed, how parliamentarians choose, how you are elected, and how most of the parliament comes out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22990	This still comes off the topic, it's really so far off the topic that...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22991	But no, but let me explain once that the humiliation of parliamentary deputies, Mr. Chairman, 90% of the debate is off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22992	I agree that unfortunately a lot of debate is off topic but this is now completely off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22993	90%. But if a parliamentary representative should explain to someone that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is a document that has been adopted and can be changed by two-thirds majority. So, simply, Mr. Pernar, gather a two-thirds majority and change the Constitution and say we don't need a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22994	Thank you. Unfortunately, you raised your hand too late. ... No, no, you have no right because you're after your colleague Bulj sat down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're right, here you have five minutes final, you can say whatever you want as you've said before.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22995	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to tell Mr. Bull, but I'd like to tell all of you. I'm not against the Constitution, but I'm telling me Parliamentarians we're the ones who can make a deal with each other instead of fighting. 'Cause watch this, while we're fighting with each other, there's a crew behind our backs laughing. But they're not here, they're right across the street from the Church of St. Mark. They laugh at us ladies and gentlemen and think we're wasting our precious time here. And I'm not for the Parliament not to be the one who holds the power. On the contrary, if I ever, ever, if Miro Bulj sets out to collect signatures for himself as prime minister and for destroying this government, I'm the first one ready to give him my signature, I now promise him from the pay phone here. And we, Mr. Bull, can make real changes in this country, we can stop it from running the country from the outside. All your amendments can also be implemented by all amendments from the SDP and any wishes from you from HDZ you might want but not given to you. They won't let you. And why is that? Because they tell you there's no money. And why is there no money? You see, you know why there's no money, you all know why there's no money, but that money for your projects could be found. So we could essentially adopt all the amendments to the opposition, we could even meet your HDZ advocate's wishes, but one consensus would be needed. We should agree together, and then this debate on the budget shouldn't take 12 hours, 15 hours, as long as it would be short because we on the Committee on Budgets would be a representative of every club, we would put up these proposals and amendments. And we would simply come to that formal debate being held, as if the formal debate were being held and we are going to the vote Thursday. And check this out, if we wanted to, we could've brought a budget like that before. But we didn't do it, we got involved in this partying and inoculation that ultimately this debate is about to change today. Here I am asking you gentlemen of the HDZ what has this debate changed today? Is one kuna going to spread differently? Gentlemen of the MOST and you have participated in the debate, what will this debate today change? Mr. Grmoya, here, Mrs. Ambrusec, and do you think this debate is going to change anything? She believes she will. And you SDP gentlemen, I believe you're also aware that someone stole our day, and Grinch stole Christmas from us today. And in fact, we've talked a lot here, and in the end it was me who almost ended up, Mr. Maras behind me. And finally, and everything you're going to say, Mr. Maras, what are you going to change? I have been told by Željko Lackovic in his time, Ivan, the only thing we here in the Parliament decide is the length of the debate. That's ladies and gentlemen the sad truth about the role of us from the opposition in this House. And I'm afraid even colleagues from the ruling majority the same way when they look at the summa summarum they all don't have anything different to say power, or role than we do. I hope that one day the Croatian people will wake up from collective hypnosis and will realize that the problem of the budget exceeds both HDZ and SDP, that the problem is above them and that there will be a change in the overall policy that will make young people not have to come out of our country, that pensioners do not have to dig through the trash, and that workers eat in the kitchen. These are ladies and gentlemen the problems our country is currently facing and which Mr. Andrej Plenkovic does not know how to solve unlike the Ukrainian crisis for which he has solutions and offers his ideas. I call on him to use his brilliant ideas to solve the catastrophic social situation in Croatia, or I would call it the time bomb that will end either the unrest or the departure of people from our country because the dissatisfaction in the people is too great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22996	Thank you very much. The esteemed Nicole Grmoy would like to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22997	Dear Vice President, since fellow Pernar wanted to influence this here, it means to extend the debate and ask why we even argue when it doesn't make any sense at all and it means replicating and discussing and not shutting down and it's the real question, that is, why Grinch stole Christmas from us, but why Pernar stole Christmas from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22998	Thank you. They will answer the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar why he stole Christmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u22999	And Mr. Grumoja, I had to do it to show people who are watching this is all a farce, that this is all a show for the public and that actually the role of these MPs, or all of us together, is not to change anything in the budget because it's obvious that we are powerless and that we are actually the last to be asked here. That the budget was made by someone else and that we just have to technically implement it the way he's imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23000	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the final 5 minutes will be spoken by the distinguished Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, at the end of the second day, no matter what their motives are, our motives are, as at the beginning, to say that we disagree deeply with this policy, regardless of whether anyone is watching this, I listened and I am convinced that there are Croatian citizens who, regardless of the late hour or the inability of maybe transmission on television, are watching this and tomorrow they will watch and listen to what they said and who voted depending on this budget. So I disagree that it's pointless to discuss here, and if Mr. Pernar is already looking for an answer for me, I think this whole thing makes sense, it makes sense here to say every sentence if you think and if you're behind it. And we're behind this budget being something that puts us back 10 years. We think that, as at the beginning, neither is it rational, nor is it as Mr Plenkovic said quality, meaning unquality and irrational. He spends too much money and the priorities that are listed inside as the ones that matter are entirely to blame for us. When you look at the expenditure side of the budget, it is almost 10 billion kuna compared to 2015, compared to the previous year it is bigger than someone said 7 billion, almost 7 billion regardless of EU funds almost 4 billion kuna is from our budget. So we could have been much more rational. We will all have to return this together one day just as we have to return the budgets and responsibilities from 2006, 2006 and 2007 when restructuring of Croatian public finances was to be carried out, when it should have been more rational in the time of the conukture of economic growth we spent our hands and hats and I called it today the Shuker Economy I am still behind it. We weren't rational, and it cost us a lot more in 2009 and 2010. Some colleagues have noted today that we don't know what's waiting for us tomorrow, the crisis is in Europe, some countries are shaking Italy, the migrant crisis, Brexit, all that affects our country very much. And here we act like we don't hear or think about what's going to happen tomorrow and spend 4 billion kunas needlessly more money than we did last year. Tell me, what's the performance? What did these union negotiations have to do with the last day? Is the difference that we divided it into two times three percent or we paid everything immediately 6% of the first year. We saved 700 million kuna, and on the other hand we spent 4 billion kuna more than the previous year. And anyway, for this will raise the hand of everyone and Mr. Bulj who always thinks about helping his region and look at the underdeveloped parts of Croatia, and look at the Ministry of Regional Development that symbolises and how much funding is given for undeveloped areas? It's about 40, 50 million kuna. And if only that 4 billion kuna money had then been used to help Gorski Kotar, one part of the undeveloped work, Slavonia, to raise that infrastructure, but not because of that we are not in favour of this budget, very clearly. We thought and expected more from Minister Maric honestly. At first, we welcomed him as a minister at the beginning of the past government but we see that simple water is carried by him, the current is too far and Mr Plenkovic acts as if he is currently here waiting for 1.5.2 days to pass and to go to the European Commission. Just so nothing's going on, just to get the job done so nobody says anything, no emotion, no passion, no less trouble, everything closes down, there's money, and eventually somebody's gonna have to pay for it. And they will pay for future generations and all those who vote for this budget will be responsible. And because of this, the SDP will not support the budget and therefore all of these discussions have been useful and therefore it is incomprehensible for us to raise certain items such as the increase in the costs of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and vote for it, instead of those five million kunas, why Mr Plenkovic would not be able to give money to this school in Sinj. What's not more useful? Mr. Bulj, here's a proposal to cut Mr. Plenkovic's money. Let that money be used for school in Sinj. The criteria used are not those that satisfy the SDP and therefore we will vote against this budget [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And we hope [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] that the citizens will hear it and remember who set it up... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23002	Thank you. We have a replica of a colleague named Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23003	Thank you, Mr. Maras. I've been paying attention to your exposure. You're in it to say that this debate is not in vain and that she's going to get something. Then you said in the end that she got that SDP wouldn't support this budget, but you knew it before it even started. That's what I know. That's what we all knew here. However, I would like to look back on one detail, too, and I'm glad that I've managed to steal Christmas for you guys because you've been stealing it from the citizens of this country for the last 25 years, and for 25 years someone's dragged them into what they'd say about their noses, here's a little bit if I could do it for you. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23004	Thank you very much for making your political action clear. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23005	You didn't get me right, I knew I wouldn't support this government's budget, but the purpose of our debate is for the citizens to hear why we won't support this government's budget. So that's what someone's listening to, and they'll appreciate it or they won't appreciate what we're saying and what we stand for. I also don't think that any problem is that if you deliberately troll the debate, it's your right, and ours is to discuss or not discuss with you. I think that some of the things that you say, and they're not true, whether or not you're deliberately potentiating them, I have to react because some people hear it. So if I keep my mouth shut, then it means I agree with you. So on that side, you just troll, but we'll answer, too. So that's basically parliamentaryism, everyone has their motives, they're yours, they're ours, and ours I said the motives are for citizens to hear what we stand for and to see the difference between in 2011 finding a deficit of 25 billion kuna and leaving the government with 8 billion dollars, or that last year means the government passed in 2016 had 5 billion and something, and now it's going to have a 7th, so the direction is opposite, the responsibility is there. The fact that we are within certain criteria set by the EU does not satisfy me. I would be most fortunate not to spend any more swearing than is necessary in our budget and therefore I am not happy and therefore I do not support what the HDZ Government is doing. And once again I'm going to say, pensioners and pensioners don't even have swears out of this whole thing. It's a joke that so many of our citizens won't feel any benefit, and that a small part of people will feel benfit. And if you look at the budget well, the increases are only where HDZ voters are. That's the problem. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23006	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23007	The increases are where the HDZ...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23008	Thank you. This will end this debate about this law, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23009	The next item is the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019, with proposals from the financial plans of extra-financial users for 2017 and projection of plans for 2018 and 2019 of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. The debate is closed. First, we will declare the amendments submitted. The amendment table is divided into benches. We are starting with amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first amendment is from MPs Zlatko Hasanbegovic and Bruno Esih. I ask Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic to show himself about the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23010	Dear MPs and MPs, the government does not accept this amendment. The reasons why the Government is unable to accept this amendment concerns the general complexity of the budget as the most significant, most important financial document in the country. The budget as the most significant and thus the most complex financial document in the country reflects on the one hand how preferences of companies that have been formed over a longer period of time and thus transferred to the legislative framework. The budget therefore includes and reflects the legal obligations that the Government has, on the other hand, balances with them the preferences of society and the political objectives of the Government. By forming different and sometimes opposing objectives, the government's demands must be managed by balancing what it has, which is available financial resources and what is possible. The amendments to this budget require an increase in expenditure by more than 9 billion kuna. It's not possible to adopt, it's not possible to accept. And therefore, in the context of the increase in expenditure proposed by this budget, the Government has balanced and proposed for different users financial resources within which we believe it is possible to realise the objectives and also achieve results that will remain in line with the economic stability of the budget. Among other things, these are the reasons why this amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23011	Before I give my word to the amendment's promoter, I would ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to hold order in the assembly, allow the Government's representative to explain his position, and I would ask you not to comment until you have the right words. Proposer of Amendment MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23012	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected ministers Maric, MPs and MPs. So, I respect the reasoning that you have given regarding the amendment and we are as proposing that, before any decision to increase the resources for the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, certain pre-work or to amend the existing legal framework governing its operation, but also its internal structure from the very selection of the composition of the Board and the Director of the Foundation to the clear criteria for the allocation of funds to individual projects, associations and, of course, their evaluation. contributes to Croatian society and the state. The difference between this amendment and all others is that it does not require re-use, but is also crucial, redistribution within the items set out in the provisions on criteria for the determination of users and how the revenues from gambling are distributed. It is therefore crucial to highlight both in front of the government and in front of lawmakers, as well as in front of Croatian media that this amendment proposes the allocation of funds in the same amount From the same sources, therefore, of the Lutheran [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] and most importantly to the same useful therefore civil society [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] So it's not a blow to... [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] and on behalf of the promoter, please vote on the amendment. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23013	I ask the esteemed MPs to vote whether they are in favour of accepting an amendment that the government does not accept? The vote is over. The amendment presented did not get a sufficient number of votes to be included in the final draft budget. The next amendment is from MP Mira Bulja. I ask Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23014	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government, but in fact it is an incorrect one that the proposed increase is not equally proposed by a reduction which is not in accordance with Article 38(2). Budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23015	Proposer of the Miro Bulj amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23016	Dear Ministers, the fact is that by rebalancing you are the same funds for municipalities and cities that in 2014 fell out of a system of assisted areas unfairly brought by the government of Zoran Milanovic, and you are aware that you have put this into the budget of the same ratios that I am now showing. The fact is that you also said when you adopted the last budget from this pay phone as Minister Tolusic said there would be a new indexation and that since 2018 there will be a fairer distribution of funds to these cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23017	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm sorry, Mr. Bulj. I've asked the MPs to stick to the order. I'd like to ask you not to give me a name-calling parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23018	The fact is that you promised that in 2018 it would be applicable. Minister Žalac says not in 2018 but in 2017 there will be a new indexation, and only in 2019. These areas are burned ground. Minister, please visit these parts. We were with you, General Krstičević and me and the people in these areas, i.e. Mayors, mayors, 35 cities and municipalities were unfairly expelled from the Croatian system. These ends were unfairly expelled while you increased 40% of the supported areas into the budget this year. And of course now a number of mayors and mayors are sitting here, where the assisted areas have been increased and kept silent. Is that fair? So just put what you put in 2016 in rebalancing. There's nothing else to be asked here, this is minor, this is the minimum that's happened to those parts. It cannot only be centralised by Croatia to be the centre of the world in Zagreb. I believe this amendment is correct and would demand a vote... incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23019	Since the amendment has not been properly submitted, it cannot be voted on. Third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23020	The government doesn't accept. The final proposal of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 for all units that have the right to an increased personal deduction was designed to support income tax for citizens made in 2015. These aids have been granted to local self-government units as compensation for the return of income tax to citizens who pay those units to the burden of their budget income. This model of aid is the result of an amendment to the legal rules which has been in force since 1 January 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law on the implementation of the State budget for 2017 stipulates that the units of local (regional) and regional self-government with the status of the assisted area will pay additional aid in reverse to their development index. These aids also cover the city of Gareshnica, which is required by this amendment to increase funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23021	Does the amendment's proposing representative want to say? Here you go, Agent Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. Here's another impression of this previous amendment submitted by my colleague Bulj, who I think is justified and which I think this government...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23023	Representative Gordan Maras, I warn you not to comment on the previous amendment but on your amendment. I'd like you to stick to your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23024	Well, I'm not commenting, I'm just saying I'm under the impression. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23025	Representative Gordan Maras, I have no intention of polluting with you, that was the first part of your sentence, and the sequel was the speech on the previous amendment. Please stick to your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23026	From half a minute ago after one presentation in the Croatian Parliament, and about the lack of hearing for less developed parts of Croatia, I would like to remind myself of what the government said at the beginning, that this budget is quality and rational. I think it is both irrational and unskilled, and since the minister will have the opportunity to continue on three amendments of mine that are very similar in this amendment to answer after I have finished, I ask him to comment on how it is possible for the city of Gareshnica, a small town in Bjelovar-Biogorje County with 11,000 inhabitants and 23 settlements to lower budget assistance for 200 thousand kuna, while at the same time raising from 8 million to 12 million kuna for the office of the Croatian Prime Minister. So, there's money there, there's spending, there's no problem raising 4 million kunas, and for a small town in Bjelovar-Belogorian County as well as for all the cities my predecessor used to say, not to mention them now, there's no money. So that's where I'm looking for 300 thousand kuna, Mr. Minister and Mr. President of the Parliament, and I'm asking for the Prime Minister to cut 300 thousand kunas. He'll be left with 4 million kunas more than he's had in the past year. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Anyway, that consumption is gonna... [[The Incursion President: Representative Maras, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23027	Unfortunately, I have to stop you, stop the exposure for the reason you're past your time. (Unhappiness in the hall, incomprehensible) Representative Maras, I warn you, MP Maras, I warn you and give you a warning. So at the end of your amendments, you won't be able to express anything, so please stick to the time, and I've already warned you once. And this is the last time I warn. I would ask the esteemed deputies to vote on the above-mentioned amendment. The vote is over. The amendment did not acquire the required majority. The 4th amendment is by Agent Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23029	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is as with the previous amendment with two I will not say any further but still sentences on the subject. Therefore, I will repeat that the model of aid that I have explained is the result of the amendments to the legal rules which are in force on 1 January 2015 and that the town of Grubisno polje for which this amendment also requires an increase in funds is included in the scope of the aid defined in Article 39(5), which is that, with the status of the assisted area, additional aid is paid to the vice-proportional development index.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23030	Representative Arsen Bauk raised a plate with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23031	Infringement of Article 239 You didn't explain why you gave Mr. Maras a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23032	I explained, I don't know if you heard. But I said he'd overstepped time, I warned earlier, and after that, since Agent Maras wouldn't stop, I gave a warning. Does the amendment promoter want to give, say? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23033	Mr. President, thank you very much for letting me speak because you made a precedent and you gave me a reminder after a hundred times you've had the opportunity to do the same, but obviously something bothered you in my speech. But no matter what bothers you, I'll keep talking and keep talking. I will continue to talk about the same as in the previous amendment, one small town, in the small town of Bjelovar-Bylogorje County, Grubišna Polje, reducing the grant from the budget by 900 thousand kuna, and on the other hand by 4 million kuna we increase the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Let all citizens hear it, let them hear that Sanader's spirit is returning to the Ban Courts because Sanader spent less, gentlemen, in 2008, in 2009. He was more modest than the current government and what the current Prime Minister's office is. I am sorry that we have no understanding in the Croatian Parliament and among those MPs who advocate the undeveloped ends of the Republic of Croatia, so when they have a chance to vote against the amendment, I hope that they would not vote against their amendment if they had the opportunity to vote. Because we have to do something that's right. We need to help those who don't and we need to be rational. It is not rational, ladies and gentlemen, to spend 4 billion kuna in the budget more annually, and then to select 30, 40 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia that are underdeveloped and give them 100, 200, 500 and million kunas less. It's not only not fair, it's not fair, it's not rational and it's not high-quality, and what is the end of the message to our citizens in these areas and what is the message to people who would like to hear tomorrow? Keep living there and have a good and good life and on that side... [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23034	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. You're out of time. I ask the esteemed deputies to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. The amendment did not acquire the required majority. The 5th amendment is from Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23035	The government does not accept the proposed amendment with the same explanation as the previous two. I will re-absorb, the model has been assisted by the legal regulations in force since 1 January 2015 and I will also say that the municipality of Djulovac, which is also required by this amendment to increase the funds, is also covered by the aid model set out in Article 39(5) of the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget, in terms of aid vice-proportional to the amount of the development index. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23036	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After two cities, a less developed city in Bjelovarska bilogorska County for which, by the way, we have a representative from HDZ who has not raised his hand for his city, it is also a paradox in this Assembly, meaning from the Grubish Field, Mr. Representative Totgergeli did not vote for his city to raise funds but it is so-called. The party's power and how it is voted in the Croatian Parliament Nice to meet you. [[Adversity President: I ask MPs to refrain from commenting until they get the right words.]] I don't have a problem with comments, just let them comment on Mr. President, the more they comment on it, the more the public will see what anyone stands for. [[Adversary President: Representative Milosevic, please do not make me namely call parliamentary representatives, refrain from commenting.]] And I advocate that one small municipality do not reduce funds compared to the previous year, the Djulovac municipality, a municipality of 3640 inhabitants, less than it stands in one skyscraper in the city of Zagreb or Mamutica building in the city of Zagreb that does not have enough resources to, I would say meet all the needs that citizens need to live there in quality and dignity. On the other hand, the Office of Prime Ministers from 8 to 12 million kunas. Mr. Minister, you've had three chances of commenting on this now, and you haven't once again answered me, which is why we need to extrapolate 4 million kunas to the Office of Mr. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Which is why in the year in which you decided to get rid of a bag for 4 billion kunas a year, you don't do it to those who need and not to those who have enough about this, who have 8 million kuna for their office, now to have 12. Is it necessary to travel more by plane, should it be more lobbying across the EU than former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has told us? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23038	I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final proposal? The vote is over. The above amendment did not obtain the required majority. The next 6th amendment is from Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23039	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment with reasons as it did in the preceding 3. Again, I am apostrophysing the model of assistance, all the units of local and regional self-government, and so mentioned which it refers to is regulated, i.e. the result of the legislative changes and regulations that entered into force on 1 January 2015. The municipality of Velika Grđevac is listed, i.e. it is included in Article 39(5). The final proposal for a law on enforcement according to which the aid will be paid in reverse proportionate to their development index. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23040	The amendment promoter wishes to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23041	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And yet I did not get the answer that I asked for, which is why it is increasing and it is not possible to reduce the item because it is also part of my amendment. Four times I asked the ladies and gentlemen Mr. Minister why it is not possible to cut the item by 300 thousand kuna to the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia after the budget of the Prime Minister's Office was increased from 8 to 12 million kuna. I said it and I'll say it one more time, I get the feeling that Sanader's ghost has returned to the Ban Court, that the resonation is the age of the election, so do whatever you want again on the part of the Republic of Croatia. If you think that's right, that way the government is enough for itself, that it's enough to win the election and do what you want for four years. I ask you, Mr. Minister, this is a very small municipality, 3313 people live there, 11 settlements but also a very successful municipality that has made its efforts and with its knowledge and resources, the EU has a large tourist complex in the municipality. Help them be even more successful. I think 300 thousand kunas there means more than what an increase of 700 thousand kuna almost cost for services in the prime minister's office means. Which is why in 2016 we have 896 thousand kuna expenses for services and in 2017 a million and a half kuna. What are these services to which we will spend 700 thousand kuna without having 300 thousand kuna for the Municipality of Big Gredz? Tell us that. And I've got 15 more amendments, and I'm gonna ask you every time. I'm gonna ask you every time until you tell me that and obviously you don't want to answer me. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23042	I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. That amendment did not obtain a sufficient majority. The 7th amendment is from MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23043	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Explanation as well as the previous 4th where we referred to cities and municipalities, as well as the case of the county. Therefore, the model of granting aid is prescribed, i.e. in force, legally regulated as from 1 January 2015. The Osijek-Baranja County for which this amendment applies and the proposed increase in funds is covered by a total of 12 counties whose development index is equal to or less than 75% of the RH average and of course will be in accordance with Article 39(5). The final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2017 pays additional aid to those units to the contrary to their development index. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23044	The representative of the amendment shall ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23045	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, unfortunately we expected an answer like this. But I'd like to go to a colleague of Maras and say a few things about Osijek-Baranja County. It is an area that has been hit extremely by the Homeland War, an area that has been hit extremely by the economic crisis and still feels, an area that is rapidly losing its population. And we could have submitted amendments to all Slavonian counties with the same arguments but my colleague Tomic and I decided to do so precisely for Osijek-Baranja County because we are coming from it. And I can tell you and invite you to visit the municipalities of Villavo, Levnavska Varoš, Podravska Moslavina and a series of others in our county that are well below the average of development that have problems and our county here is trying as much help as possible, as much help as possible. And in short of these funds, which is at the level of 2015 what we proposed because we wanted to be objective and realistic in the short term of these funds, you deny a whole series of other projects that the county is doing to improve the standard of life of its inhabitants. For example, since the government of the Republic of Croatia did not want to give the announced 1000 euros for each newborn child by amendment, it is the SDP's of the county's parliament that allocates 1000 kuna to each newborn child. If they don't want HDZ and then let the county at least give 1000 kuna. You deny such projects, in such areas you save, and I can only say again what counterpart Maras said in the Croatian Prime Minister's office you increase the budget by 105%, 105%. I wonder why, why, what will these people do and what is the increase in the volume of this office so long as on the other hand you save on your citizens who need it most and who come from the most passive parts of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23046	Thank you to Representative Hajdukovic. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not obtained a sufficient majority of votes. The 8th Amendment is from Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23047	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. In 2015, this activity, thus lending through HBOR’s founding capital to promote exports and infrastructure of economic activities and small and medium-sized enterprises was secured by 32.9 million. In 2016 33 million were planned and for 2017 we propose 50 million kuna. However, it should also be said that the increase in funds compared to the previous two years is evident, but it should also be said that the transfer from the state budget through founding capital is only one source in the HBOR's passive to create the bank's overall long-term credit potential. This confirms the fact that it will take place during 2017 and 2018. HBOR can be determined from the state budget of 836 million kuna, i.e. 418 million kuna per year from the position of operational programmes of competitiveness of cohesion in 2014-2020 and for loans intended to invest in long-term assets of small and medium-sized enterprises in a value of up to 10 million euros and a period of 12 years at an interest rate of up to 3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23048	Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23049	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's not the same and it's not the same message whether in HBOR we're putting out 50 or 100 million kuna in core capital. We are all aware in the Republic of Croatia that exports have brought us up economically for the last two years, that Croatia is among the top 5 countries after export growth, although exports generally fall in the EU. Croatia is a bright example and should be supported. It is clear that there are other sources, it is clear that most other sources are but what the budget says and what the government's priorities are being shown. Unfortunately, our government's priorities are not to invest in exports and the economy, but rather to invest in the Ministry of Defence, in the long-range hoods that we have already agreed before and we need to implement but also other things that sometimes seem to me like someone wanted to plant the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and then we see investment in information systems, in hardware, etc. in what should be invested, of course, but not in 4, 5 times as much as it was in previous years. What I'd like to say to you, with your message and your behavior, you show what you're investing in. Whether the budget is developed, whether it is quality and whether it is rational. I will say once again for me this budget is neither qualitative nor developmental, nor rational, this is a political budget that has been subject to the pressures of everyone and everyone from the very beginning and ended up in totally wrong priorities. I wish you'd helped the economy more, if you were Assembled more citizens, that you did everything possible to the Republic of Croatia and [[The President's incursion: Time.]] continue this year. [[Adversity President: Gordan Maras is out of your time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23050	Please, Agent Gordan Maras, I ask you to sit down and listen first. I'm asking you for two minutes. Don't make me go to the next warning. It's not my intention. Each of us has equal rights. You have the right to two minutes as well as the other 150 parliamentary deputies. Use... Take advantage of counsel Gordan Maras in the fullness of your time in the way you want, 2 minutes and no more. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I will from now on to all MPs not to be surprised 10 seconds before I say time so that you can complete the thought within the scheduled time limit. I would like to ask the representatives to approach the vote for the above-mentioned amendment. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired the required majority. The 9th Amendment is by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23051	The Government does not accept that amendment. The funds provided for the damage compensation activities caused by natural disasters amounting to 20 million kuna, we believe, are sufficient to carry out the activities over the year. However, it should be said that the costs of damage caused by elemental disasters fall within a group of expenditures that are difficult to predict and plan. In the case of expenditure on damages greater than planned amounts to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there are other ways to finance possible overruns. On the other hand, the proposed reduction of expenditure on the construction and adaptation of buildings and infrastructure activities would jeopardise and slow the process of modernising the Armed Forces and bringing them closer to NATO's military security standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23052	Thank you. Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23053	I thank the President of the Parliament. Here's what we've been talking about in the rinks. We've been talking about rinks here in Parliament for over a year. The problem is getting bigger and bigger every day. At present, 67 houses, 214 roads and 21 economic buildings are at risk. This problem is not only in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County. The problem exists also in the area of the Varazdin County, Međimurje, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County as far as I am aware. I wish we could find a way to settle this so the costs won't be higher. You know, when that flood accident in Savina happened, there was a way to help people, and I'm appealing to all of you to vote for amendments, to solve and resolve these consequences of the slide that people can start living normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23054	I thank the MPs. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. I find that the amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The tenth amendment is by representative Mark Vesligaj and doctor of science Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23055	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. He's almost identical to the previous amendment, and so is my explanation. But I will still use my right to once again apostrophe that the Government considers that the funds are secured, activities and compensation for damages caused by natural disasters amounting to 20 million kunas enough to take place throughout the year. But also in the event of expenditure on damages greater than planned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there are other ways to finance possible overruns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23056	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23057	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I wouldn't agree with you. The funds of 20 million kuna are certainly not enough to repair all the damages of the elemental disasters. I remind you that in the spring of this year, the elemental disaster of the frost hit 13 Croatian counties and that the total amount of estimated damage was 915 million kuna. The Commission for elemental disasters whose member himself has actually made a proposal which I believe and the Government will adopt that only 20 million kunas are compensated exclusively by fruit producers. So we've ignored other cultures' producers, we've ignored vineyards, we've ignored other basic flood disasters, from the slides that were mentioned here, and that amount certainly isn't enough to compensate for all these damages that were in the previous year. We therefore propose an amendment, and I urge you to support it in the amount of an increase of 20 million kuna, so a total of 40 million kuna, in order to at least partially compensate these damages resulting from the elemental disaster. I once again apostrophem the cold, apostrophem the vineyards, for example in the area of Krapina Zagorje County, only the damage to the frost was 52 million kuna. And I call on you to support this amendment and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23058	I ask MPs and MPs to vote on whether the above amendment will be included in the final draft budget. The vote is over. I find that the amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The following amendments go to the Central State Sport Office. The 11th amendment is by the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23059	The Government of the Amendment does not accept the reason why the budgetary user of the state budget may take the obligation under investment projects only after the professional evaluation and the estimated eligibility and effectiveness of the investment project has been carried out and as prescribed in Article 45. Budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23060	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23061	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. We're not happy with not accepting this proposal. In fact, we gave this amendment for the simple reason why we are asking for the state budget to co-finance the reconstruction of the existing sports hall as part of Mate Blažina High School in Labin. Complete technical documentation has been drawn up, the estimated costs of reconstruction of the hall, which is 40 years old, amounting to 32 million kuna, and today we all know that the decentralised means of the state are referred to the counties and cities as founders of primary and secondary schools are not enough to cover the cold drive either. Therefore, all the burden falls on units of local self-government and on the counties for both reconstruction and investment maintenance. If the city of Labin has already taken the obligation, the county is unable to do so, that by borrowing which the city of Labin plans precisely for reconstruction and the hall we believe that 5 million kuna in total amounting to 32 million kuna is a rational proposal and surely that aid from the state would be necessary for our children in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23062	Thank you. I ask the MPs and the MPs to vote on the above-mentioned amendment. The vote is over. That amendment did not obtain a sufficient majority. The 12th amendment is by MP Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23063	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as in the previous argument, with another additional note of this amendment, in accordance with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened with pre-determined commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23064	Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23065	Thank you, Mr. President. The reasons given by the minister regarding the non-admission of amendments are not in line with the law. In fact, it was an item that was smaller last year. It was smaller and earlier years and if we look at it explicitly according to what the commitments were made then the item for the Holy See would amount to 299 million etc. Kuna should be even bigger. So, by now, the item is not in line with the international contract, which is why your argument does not stand. On the other hand, I think the citizens of Pula, the citizens of Istria, are entitled to the pool. We heard in a debate from some colleagues what they need a pool when you have the sea. I'd invite these colleagues to come to Pula today, jump into the Adriatic Sea and take a bath if they're so brave and I don't think they should be. In any case, I object to the argument and insist that a vote be held on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23066	I'd like to thank Agent Peggy Grbino. Since the above amendment does not comply with the law on it, we will not vote. The next amendment is aimed at the MUP, the 13th amendment by MP Rank Ostojic. Minister of Interior Vlaho Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23067	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened by earlier commitments. Consequently, the A539026 international agreement of the Council of Chairs and of the Republic of Croatia is intended for the settlement of contractual obligations, which are provided under the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23068	Representative, but I would ask for no longer than one minute, since there is no right by which, at a time when it is not in accordance with the law, word can be given. Even though I've given it to others, I'm giving it to you, but I'd like to ask for no more than one minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23069	It'll take less than a minute because I'll repeat what Mr. Grbin said. I am very glad that this argument means that otherwise they would have accepted the amendment if it weren't for that matter of commitments taken. A colleague of the coat of arms explained that this is not true, what is the most important debate in the Assembly has shown that everyone interested in getting a severance fee, is only a matter of that height. I think it's very important that we all support it and 20 million kuna will certainly be the limit under which the minister of discretion will decide how many officers he will be able to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23070	Thank you very much. Since the above-mentioned amendment is not in line with the law on it, we cannot vote. The following amendments are directed towards the Croatian Defence Ministry and, on their behalf, representative Tomo Medved. If there isn't a Mr. Bear representative of the finance minister. 14th Amendment by Representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23071	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. In the proposal for a State budget for 2017, the Croatian Defence Ministry proposed a total limit of a billion 46 million 617 thousand 391 kuna of which the funds needed to implement the new Law on Rights to Croatian defenders amounted to 175 million kuna. Since the new law plans to introduce a new right of similar supply, which on average passed the minimum compensation guarantee system in 2016, part of the user is expected to return to the jurisdiction of Croatian defenders as beneficiaries of the new right again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23072	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23073	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. First of all, I want to say that you are bringing the best budget this year since the Croatian state and I congratulate you on that. Even the defenders were able to explain to them that they were getting 200 million more even though this year alone, by over 100 million kuna, you cut the budget, but those when it comes to HDZ swallows everything and will swallow that mathematics. So after 555 days of protesting to the defenders, you're part of the defenders manipulated who protested you promised two things. One change is the name of the ministry, and another is a comprehensive new law that will cover what the defenders are interested in. The name of the ministry has changed, and here, I know that you, Mr. Ministers, are not familiar with it, but here is promised people and these five billion kunas are too little to fulfill, I will only list the part they are promised, so we have equalising the rights of Croatian defenders to the Republic of Croatia, the introduction of rights to national protection, the reopening of the right to PTSD, then the housing of those same defenders, and we already have 13,000 outstanding housing issues since the 1990s and the peak of establishment, the opening of new deadlines for recognising the status of Croatian defenders, which translately means that soon we can expect a situation like at airports that someone who gives a defence minister, would be nice to have also served the Prime Minister, a million defender with flowers and candy for status. So only this year is the condition for the defenders to be paid back 10% of the pensions that were taken away in 2014 and it costs 350 to 400 million kuna. All of this costs a lot more than these five billion kunas, but since I do not want to put the ruling into a situation to manipulate Croatian defenders once again, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23074	Since the amendment has been withdrawn, we will not vote. The 15th amendment came from representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23075	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. That amendment is not accepted since they are in the budgetary position of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Activity Memories of the victims killed in the Homeland War, to co-finance the construction of the Memorial of victims killed in the Homeland War in 2017 provided financial resources intended for the implementation of a public call for construction, setting up or editing the Memorial of victims killed in the Homeland War in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Public call is intended for associations from Homeland and local (regional) and regional self-government in partnership with at least one Homeland War Association. Based on previous experiences in the implementation of a public call for the construction, setting or editing of memorials for victims killed in the Homeland War in the area of the Republic of Croatia provided funds in 2017, according to the Ministry of Croatian Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are sufficient for the purpose indicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23076	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23077	Thank you, Your Honor. So the budget of the ministry is as my colleague Fred Matic said increased by 200 million kuna in fact increased by 150 that we all know here. On the other hand, you're saying you don't have a million-and-a-half kuna to protect the dignity of the Homeland War. So the Sibenik-Knin County and the town of Sibenik gave great pain in the Homeland War. During the Homeland War, except for the very war destruction itself, the economy was destroyed. I think that the Sibenik defenders are all those who put their lives on the altar of the homeland, that they deserve to be remembered and that the government should have heard of it before some other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23078	I'd like to thank the representative. I ask the esteemed MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired the required majority. The following amendments are aimed at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. On their behalf, representative Marija Buric Pecinovic, State Secretary. The 16th amendment came from MP Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The amendment is not accepted because under the current budgetary circumstances, we believe that the planned funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23080	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23081	Dear Ministers, one of the government's top priorities is the declared public recovery of the economy. Export is the main engine of economic recovery. It's very clear why. Investments aren't enough, we don't have enough to start the economy. The purchasing power of our citizens is unfortunately small and the market is little that personal consumption can stimulate economic recovery. Money coming from European funds is not enough to boost economic recovery. Exports are the only engine that can really trigger economic recovery. And the government recognized it. Trade policies give us an export framework, whether defined by international organisations or bilaterally in trade contracts. Yesterday, Mr Kovac asked why Croatia has not studied the impact of trade policies and bilateral contracts such as TTIP with America or CETA with Canada on the Croatian economy. Well, it's simply because the Foreign Ministry has no money to pay for such studies by renowned institutes. Therefore, if you are really serious about supporting Croatian exports, if you are as serious as the Government that you want to recover the Croatian economy then please reconsider and call on the parliamentary majority to support this amendment because you need to show the works what you are saying, and this will be a wonderful manifestation of your serious intentions to support Croatian exports. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23082	Thank you to Agent Klisovic. I ask MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The 17th amendment also comes from MP Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23083	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. With the same explanation, we hold that under the current budgetary circumstances, the resources that are planned are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23084	The proposer's representative wishes to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23085	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, from the vote on the first amendment, it is now clear to me how serious the government is to support Croatian exports. Let me say that the Foreign Ministry is a competent export support body because it includes the State Trade Office. The foreign ministry also runs the Government's Commission for Internationalisation of our economy, or exports. Therefore, economic diplomacy provides the concrete support of our exporters who are going to find export opportunities, specific jobs, to address the issue of discrimination, to release goods in customs, to participate in ensuring the collection of our businessmen. And the businessmen recognized their work. In this way, by abolishing their money, you de facto abolish the support of our exporters on the ground, and the ministry does so through embassies, consulates, honorable consuls, order of business people that we have engaged in in countries that have influence, which are from business circles, have certain connections and business, and media and political promotion of our exporters. The only ministry with which the budget fell and where it fell has fallen into a segment of economic diplomacy. That's where you cut up where the Foreign Ministry is. Well, gentlemen, dear ministers, the Government, you say you do not want to support Croatian exports, Croatian exporters on the ground, in international markets, where they find it most difficult. I can no longer believe that you are serious about what you say, that you really want to support Croatian exports and Croatian exporters. Because this is the infrastructure that supports it abroad, in international markets. No one but our diplomacy, our embassies, our consulates, our honored consuls. These are the people this country has, this government has to support economic recovery and support exports. All activities of the Chamber of Commerce And other bodies are welcome, but they're not government activities. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] These are government activities that need to be financed from the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23086	Thank you. Timed out I ask MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. [[Intruder Klisovic: Please vote.]] The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired the required majority. The next amendments are directed towards the economy, entrepreneurship and crafts ministry, and on their behalf by Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic. The 18th amendment comes from MP Davor Bernardic and representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23087	The government does not accept amendment number 18. The reasons for not accepting this amendment are found in the fact that the funds for these purposes are planned in the budget and in much greater amounts than these MPs suggest. In fact, they are planned from the European Union's funds so that only industrial policy issues under the R & D Programme, and in the beginning of next year, programmes of more than 100m euros will be launched.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23088	The representative of the amendment wants to take the floor. Here you go, Agent Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23089	This year, straight for industrial production from European funds, with a letter and a number. We ask from your ministry that 45 million kuna be provided but not in a way that represents a symbolic figure in the budget of 5 million kuna for the growth of industrial production. We stimulated export growth, we encouraged growth in industrial production, we left Croatia in order, we encouraged economic growth. Now you're putting an item that's worth 5 million kunas and the question is whether it's going to be realized here, too. So, you act like you don't care about the industry in Croatia, and I can't believe you don't really want to accept an amendment that goes towards increasing the resources for industry or production in Croatia. [[You don't know how to read the budget.]] Croatia and Croatia's industry and production are everything. Production also in INA, the refinery in Sisak. So now if you don't accept this, I really doubt the sincerity of your intentions to solve and help solve the situation in INA because it's the same thing about production. Therefore, I appeal to your common sense to encourage the industry in Croatia when we already have growth in industrial production, when we have growth in exports, when we have done so, which is now beginning to slow down and to do everything in our power to create new added value precisely through this measure. We've brought the Industrial Development Strategy. So let's give funds and help those who need to create new jobs in Croatia, to make the industry stronger, to encourage industrial production and to encourage exports. I therefore appeal to you for sound reasons to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23090	Thank you, Agent Bernardic. I ask MPs and MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The 19th amendment also comes from MPs Davor Bernardic and Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23091	The government doesn't accept. The reason why the Government does not accept is that again for different forms of lending, small and micro loans that will be available to entrepreneurs at extremely low interest rates or at an interest rate of zero. For these purposes, 280,8 million kuna is provided for at the HAMAG Agency and interest subsidies for corporate loans as an obligation taken over from the previous period and in accordance with the Government's commitment to respect all obligations is planned in the amount of 27 million kuna which we consider sufficient. I also appeal to MPs to take a good look at the structure of the budget and accept that today, when we are EU members, we have significant funds from EU funds that replace our own expenditures, which gives us additional quality budget management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23092	The representative of the amendment's proposing submitted his reply. Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23093	Thank you very much for the warm recommendations, Mrs. Dalic. You don't have to tell me that. I wrote those programs. [[Intruding Dalic: Please nice and second time.]] So I know very well what is in them, but I also know that you speak only in futur -- we will -- next year, EU funds, etc. [[I know.]] Look at the realisation of EU funds within your ministry this year, tenders over a billion kuna have been opened, no contract has been signed. And now you tell me We've signed, we've signed, we've signed, we've [[Intruding Dalic: I signed up to 10 o'clock in the evening.]] So by this time today, we've signed up? [[Intruder Dalic: So I signed the contracts.]] [[The President's incursion: I would pray that you do not enter replicas and polemics.]] Okay, or yesterday? Not a single contract was signed until the day before yesterday. You signed yesterday. So two days ago [[Intruder Dalic: Two weeks ago.]] Two days ago, you signed contracts, until then, not one single contract from European funds was signed. [[I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister to refrain from commenting.]] And you are now telling us that our entrepreneurs should rely exclusively on it in 2017. Well, as long as you guys do what you're saying, it's gonna be two and three years. Especially interest subsidies and financial instruments available to us from eu funds. And another thing about the loan with the World Bank, you haven't been able to do that in a year to get the Venture Capital Funds, get, get the Venture Capital Fund in Croatia and get the possibility of funding new projects. I hope you didn't sign that yesterday morning. But it would be good if it did yesterday morning because it hasn't been done in a year. So you did absolutely nothing, last year you realized 7 million kunas, counties and cities and municipalities want this program and we propose to increase with, I said from 27 to 37 million kunas to realize all those projects that are expressed at this point and that our entrepreneurs want to be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23094	Thank you. Agent Maras, I've allowed you 10 seconds more for the reason you've been distracted, it's been 10 seconds more and thank you. We can approach the vote That's right, you hear, very, all the time I'm warning them. [[Intruder Maras: Thank you very much but it is invaluable when you hear the time from HDZ MPs.]] I ask MPs and MPs to approach the vote on the amendment. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The 20th amendment also comes from MPs Davor Bernardic and Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23095	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The government does not accept an amendment with a similar explanation as before. The funds for these purposes are secured and implemented within the EU at far greater amounts than those proposed by the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23096	Before I allow a word to the amendment promoter I would really ask the MPs if you have something to comment on and between you, I would ask you to step out of the assembly, discuss and return inside but allow both the Government representative and the amendment promoter to say what he thinks is necessary Thank you. Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23097	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. This amendment refers to a million kunas more for innovation, and a million kunas less for official cars. So I don't know what part of this amendment is disputed? Is a million kunas more for innovation or does it not want to cut a million kunas more for official cars? I must say that these millions of kunas are pure symbols of ambition, so let's invest more this year in innovation. And I would like Mrs. Dalic and the esteemed members of the government to learn something from the mistakes of the past governments that did not accept amendments from MPs, which did not accept amendments to clubs and I do not think that is good. The MPs who have proposed many amendments here in the Croatian Parliament today think best of all the groups that represent, think best of their environments, think best of all those people who through these funds in the state budget wanted to provide an additional motive and added sublime. Therefore, you would do well to learn from the mistakes of past governments and accept and give your hand of cooperation especially when it comes to innovation, especially when it comes to young people in Croatia, especially when it comes to production for which we have proposed more support, especially when it comes to exports. So we want to encourage all these things in our country. And show your hand, give your hand cooperation, show good will and accept certain amendments and show that young people in Croatia are important to you, that you care about production, that you care about innovation, that science is important to you, that support for exports is important to you because without these activities, Croatia cannot be freaked out from the European bottom Therefore, show some goodwill, reduce cars and increase for innovation. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23098	Thank you. I ask the representatives and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The 21st Amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23099	The Government does not accept that amendment. The amendment is therefore not accepted because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened with pre-determined commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23100	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23101	Thank you. So here's the thing about yours not to propose amendments on the basis of already undertaken commitments, unfortunately we can't see when we get the budget in many items that have already been taken over, so we don't know where we can look. And as for the key amendment that I have proposed, it is a business technological incubator in Krapina, which is one of the key projects for Krapina-Zagorje County. Namely, the project documentation and everything for that incubator has been completed and completed and it has happened that the Ministry of Regional Development has limited the resources to report projects to only 20 million kuna and the incubator is planned to receive 38 million kuna before it was possible to report to the ministry. Now the project is only reported for building buildings. So the funds required by this amendment are the means to equip the incubator itself. It means the means by which information and all resources could be prepared for future entrepreneurs. Among other things, new 3D printer technologies and things like that have been planned. So this incubator would be connected to our university in Croatia, so that Zagorje would get a lot more about entrepreneurship and new knowledge and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23102	Thank you. Since the above amendment does not comply with the law on it, we cannot vote. The next amendment is directed towards the State Property Ministry, Minister Goran Maric of State Property. The 22nd amendment came from MPs Peja Grbin and Cynthia Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23103	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law, which is provided for and prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened by pre-determined commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23104	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? I'd beg one minute since it's not in sync, but here's no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23105	Your Honor, Mr. President, first I'm going to say something about the amendment and then something about the matter of Article 38(3) and point out that the government is not telling the truth or that the government is lying. So first and foremost respected colleague Marić if you wanted to solve this problem, and this is about the Institute of Immunology, you would solve it and secure the money in the budget. You have not provided money in the budget, which is why the status change of the Immunological Institute cannot be implemented and property from the Immunological Institute d.d. He can't move to a public institution at the Immunological Institute. Whether you voted on this and whether we vote on this or not, it's important this Immunological Institute is going to fail. For technical reasons, you stick your head in the sand and avoid implementing your obligation. As for Article 38(3) in the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, it is said that the annual fees for the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia will be arranged in a way that the number of Župa is multiplied by 2 then by 20, relations with 12 for the year and then by average salary. Allow me, Mr. President, because I'm talking about the government lying, and then with an average salary in the Republic of Croatia. [[I'd like to ask.]] Please explain to me, if the average salary in the Republic of Croatia in February was 100 kuna higher than in September on the basis of which we are doing the budget, if the number of County in the Republic of Croatia is today the same as it was in February how is it possible that the item for the Catholic Church on the basis of this formula is larger than it was in February when we adopted the 2016 budget? So the number of Countys the same, the average salary then higher than today and the amount that we put into the budget today is higher than it was then. Gentlemen, there's no telling the truth here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23106	Thank you. I only have one thing to stress now, therefore unrelated to all that you have said, even though certain amendments that do not comply with the law should not be given after that word to the amendment promoter. No matter what I did, I made every concession, but I asked it to be no longer than a minute because you don't have the right to do it. I also told you. You didn't want to stop. Unfortunately, from this moment on, no matter which club the MPs have mentioned, I will simply not give in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will not give an explanation. Here's a representative of the coat of arms. You've picked up a tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23107	By representing such a position as you have now stated, you are violating the provision of Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which regulates the way amendments are spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23108	Representative Peja Grbin, I would warn you to better study the Rules of Procedure since at the time when the amendment does not comply with the law, the amendment promoter should not be given a word regardless of how I would allow all MPs to do so when it does not make it possible for you to have the opportunity to speak, to have the opportunity to say what they think. I gave that opportunity to everyone, but I asked them all, please not for more than one minute. I've asked for you, too. Since we can't stick to the deal, I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. We don't vote on this amendment. The following amendments are directed towards the Ministry of Culture. The 23rd amendment comes from HNS, HSU's Club of Representatives. Secretary of State Ivica Poličak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23109	Mr. President, respected MPs and representatives of the Ministry of Culture are in line with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, each year a public call for funding of the programme in culture. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Council for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. That programme shall be notified on a public call for 2017 in accordance with the abovementioned and shall be evaluated and an appropriate decision shall be taken. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23111	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Well, we suggested it as an amendment, we're familiar with all this Mr. Secretary of State said. In fact, it is the municipality of Bilje in Baranja, the town of Lug, which is inhabited by the highest inhabitants of Hungary. Certain activities were still launched in 2011. For political obstructions, however, in the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Bilje simply stopped. We therefore do not have to report afterwards to the competition since the project was approved in 2011 we proposed this amendment and to put it directly into the budget. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23112	I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The 24th amendment comes from MPs Zeljko Jovanovic, Damir Tomic and Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23113	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the law, the Ministry of Culture also issued a public call for the financing of the Programme in culture, which subsequently considers and values the Council for certain activities in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, the programme is not registered to the Ministry of Culture's competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23114	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23115	After the HDZ government harshly punished Djakovo in its term until 2011, taking Đakova's Municipal Court, taking away our birthplace and moving the ergel to Lipik, I felt that this symbolic gesture would at least make up for the government's sequence. The 3 million kuna for the cathedral is the most beautiful one from Venice to Istanbul. It's really a small amount I've asked for. I ask for a vote, and I only mention the chairman, amendments that do not comply with the law and do not end up in this book, so President-in-Office's argument does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23116	Okay. You're not here to interpret the Rules of Procedure. I am asking you to vote on this amendment. I find that the amendment has not passed, so we move on to Amendment 25. Dear colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23117	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The European Capital of Culture in 2020 is a programme that will be funded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from different positions and several ministries in the period until 2020. The funds provided for by the Ministry of Culture only relate to the part that is exactly the Ministry of Culture. The projects under this programme will also run for EU funds and will co-finance according to established criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23118	Thank you. I'd like Mr. Jovanovic's proposal to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23119	Dear Secretary of State, I have submitted the amendment for almost symbolic reasons to make it clear what you have said. So, Rijeka as the European Capital of Culture National Project, a national project that will take place in the year when Croatia will chair the EU that, therefore, the funds provided for in the state budget are not necessarily sufficient in 2017 or in the 2018 and 2019 projections. Part of the funds will be from EU funds, part of the budget of the city of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County. And the state committed itself to negotiations that were conducted when Rijeka ran for 10m euros. I hope that will come true. That's what you promised right here in front of the entire assembly. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23120	Please approach the vote. I find that the amendment has not passed, so we move on to Amendment 26. Proposer is a respected colleague, Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23121	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation that that programme has been notified on a public call for 2017 in accordance with the law and with a public call and it will be evaluated as such, and an appropriate decision will be taken accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23122	Thank you. I'd like an esteemed colleague of the blacksmith to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23123	I thank the esteemed Vice President. So I can't agree with this because we've got a third-level budget too, so there's nothing there to see what's going to be and what's going to be allocated to. And I think you know that the Old Town complex in Čakovec is a monument of culture of exceptional importance not only for the town of Čakovec, Međimurje County but for all of Croatia. In 2016, this Assembly also declared Nikola Šubić Zrinski the year of the 450th anniversary of the battle at Siget, and so I believe that it should be classified to be precisely seen certain funds that will be spent in 2017 to revitalise the restoration of this complex. I can regret to conclude this acceptance, not only of me, but of Međimurje's resident, and I demand that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23124	You're asking for a vote, I presume. Please approach the vote. I find that this amendment has not passed, too. So we move on to Amendment 27. HNS-HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23125	The amendment is not accepted. It's almost the same situation here as the 24th Amendment. No public call was received, so the lighting program could not be included as such because it was not registered to the Ministry of Culture's competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23126	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague Batinić to... [[You can't hear the speaker from the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23127	Partly I can accept it. The practice is like that, I agree, but I believe you'll take care of the approval, in valorising the projects that will come. It is about Đakov, we all know very well what the Đakova cathedral is about, we also know the financial opportunities of the city of Đakov, the whole of Slavonia, so I believe you will also take care of this proposal for valorisation of the projects that have arrived. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23128	Thank you. Please allow us to approach the vote. I find that this amendment has not passed, so we move on to Amendment 28. These are amendments addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture. Dear Minister Tolusic. Amendment number 28 proposed by colleagues Domagoj Hajdukovic, Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic. I ask Minister Tolusic to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23129	First of all, it is a lovely greeting to the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, of course, the chairman. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment because the planned budgetary activity has been reduced compared to the current 2016 budget plan by only 0.87%, which ensures all needs for the work and sustainability of the institution. As the ergela has its own revenues in order to strengthen the situation and further disbursement of the budget from the users of the budget, it is expected to intensify its activities with a view to achieving additional revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23130	Thank you. I'd like to ask the promoter to be shown, dear colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23131	Thank you, Vice President. I would remind you that Djaco's heart of Slavonia and two of the largest symbols of the city are precisely the cathedral for which you have refused the amendment in this case and the ergel with a tradition of over 500 years. I know that you have not now reduced significant funds in this budget, but I will remind you that previous Minister Romic has reduced about 600 thousand kuna funds for the state ergel. I'd like to invite you once more to come to the ergel and see if there's a need for a bunch of new jobs. Horses aren't toys. There's a lot of people out there to deal with these horses. I'm looking for a vote, and I'd like, for example, to show some unity when it comes to Slavonia, because the Slavonia project has not yet begun. Let's start it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23132	Please allow us to approach the vote. I find Amendment number 28 has not passed, so let's move on to Amendment 29. I'm asking you to read the Minister's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23133	The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment on the grounds that the resources for organic agricultural production are, in addition to all this, biodynamic agricultural production, provided within the Rural Development Programme. Since 2015, organic agricultural production has been financed from the Rural Development Programme and for a measure of 11 Environmental farming, which is an integral part of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, has been provided a little over 128m euros over the programming period. During 2015, support for over 70 thousand hectares paid in 2016 totalling 212 million kuna was requested, and support for more than 90,000 hectares was requested in 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover:
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23134	Thank you, Minister. I'd like a colleague of the Bundes to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister. Biodynamic agriculture is located in the budgets of most European countries for the reason it is recognised as high quality, as a farm that provides products that have a very good impact on the economy because demand is higher than supply, and among other things biodynamic agriculture products have a very good impact on human health and the environment. It is, in fact, that biodynamic agriculture is essentially a step ahead of organic agriculture because other than the use of pesticides, it implies the use of indigenous domestic varieties and implies a complete healthy approach, starting from the very country in which this farming is so planted and then through further cultivation to the final product. Given that Croatia has the honour of having been born right here, the beginner of biodynamic agriculture recognised worldwide, means not only in Europe, but also in North America, Africa, Asia and all other continents, we believe that it is a real shame that this item is not in the budget, and especially because in Croatia there are a whole series of biodynamic OPGs in which enthusiasts, the holders of the highest certificates such as the Demeter certificate, and all these days they do not have recognition from the Republic of Croatia, and for this reason I ask that this final state be changed and that this amendment is voiced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23136	Thank you very much. Let's approach the vote. I find that this amendment has not passed. Moving to Amendment 30. It's an amendment to HNS and HSU's Club of Representatives. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23137	As regards the amendment of the Club of Representatives, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that amendment. Namely, the total budget plan for chapter 06025, the Croatian Food Agency for 2017 was reduced by 628 thousand kuna. However, the planned funds are sufficient for the regular operation of the agency. This reduction in the budget plan relates first of all to the implementation of 4 projects financed by the European Union, which are closed in 2017. So the total reduction in the budget, the financial plan in 2017 primarily refers to the closure of EU projects while the funds for the regular operation of the agency are quite sufficient. As far as I'm concerned, you had a question for... That because your amendment does not apply to the Ministry of Agriculture, if we refer to the irrigation system. [[Intruder, speaker not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23138	Okay. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to manifest himself. ... [[Intruder, speaker not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23139	No, your amendment was connected to the irrigation system. This belongs to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, not the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23140	He's a colleague of Vrdoljak. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23141	So, as far as I can see, maybe I'm wrong, there's a point 828016 Pilot irrigating project Donja Neretva at the Ministry of Agriculture, and that's where we increased. But, guys, let's get this straight, we're removing funds from another ministry. It's not easy for the government to accept all these conditions, I understand. This project is one of the few that can be done on Drava. It's terribly difficult and complicated, a series of spatial and planned problems. Things have been working out for the last five years around this project. The project weighs 3 billion kuna. Here is just a question of project documentation that the county should continue to work on. I just wanted to draw attention to this amendment that you have one big project that you cannot solve alone without the Ministry and Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Water, and the Croatian Electrical Industry, Osijek-Baranja County, all must be part of the project. Focus, call for coordination, do it. These 12 million in this year you will be able to find for sure over the year if you wish to continue with the steps that are slow, but ultimately bring great benefits in that region.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23142	Thank you very much, now we'll see if you've turned your attention enough and we'll see what the MPs say. Please vote. I find that the amendment has not passed. Moving to Amendment 31. It is the amendment of a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23143	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted as I have already said, since we are talking about amendments from the Ministry of Agriculture and not the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. The Agency's budget for food has been reduced in 2017 above all that 4 EU projects are ending, and the total amount provided for to finance the Agency's work is realistically at the same level as in 2016 when we withdraw those money that was secured for co-financing of EU projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23144	I'd like to ask my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, I cannot accept this explanation any more than we have witnessed recently with unfavorable food safety events in the Republic of Croatia. So we also held the thematic session of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Health at the Croatian Parliament. We have concluded that certain things in the system obviously do not work well, what we have conditionally called blood flow or communication between institutions that should alert not the public, but the professional public when it comes to, when food is discovered that is not safe for consumption and I think that maintaining the budget at last year's level, regardless of the European projects that I knew well so as to enable the Food Agency to take over in some way the initiative to put the system into place more effectively and to control the system and the alarm system as such when I say again, harmful substances in the food are discovered. Therefore, I think that, in light of the unprecedented events of this year that have resulted in one fatality, the budget of the Food Agency should be increased and I ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23146	Let's approach the vote, please. Thank you, I understand that this amendment has not passed. We have exhausted the amendments to which Minister Tolusic replied. We thank you. And now we move on to amendments relating to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. Here with us is the State Secretary of the Honorable Memorial of Đuric. Amendment No. It is the 32nd amendment of the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives. I'm asking the secretary of state for your readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23147	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this amendment is not accepted and that, as part of the activities of the development of assisted areas, a programme of sustainable development of the local community is implemented on the basis of annual calls for public calls for public interest to co-finance projects that are the holders of units of local and regional and (regional) self-government with a development index below the average of the Republic of Croatia. The basis of this call is to co-finance projects which are estimated to contribute to a more significant development of individual, assisted areas and thus create preconditions for sustainable economic and social development. It is about smaller projects, municipal and social infrastructures that are assumed or cannot be financed from European Structural Investment Funds or from other sources and are important for equating development. The State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 has already provided for an increase in the funds for the implementation of the activities in question, amounting to 72.7 million kuna, which is an increase compared to 2016 by 48%. Given that the programme is on an annual basis, to co-finance projects up to a maximum of 1 million kuna, planned funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 are planned in sufficient amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23148	Thank you. Dear fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23149	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, yes, I understand, I hope that the contests will be announced as soon as possible. It's one thing, another thing, it's a kindergarten in Kopachevo. So we know very well, we're all familiar with both the situation and the circumstances and the injuries. If the municipality of Bilje had funds and those remaining million kunas if the project went through, I'm afraid what it doesn't have, that's the basic reason why it's being sought. That's one thing. The second thing, you pointed out means a sub-average development index. We're all aware of the fact and if the development index, I would suggest to you that you pass on to Ms. Secretary that she no longer uses it, because that index would simply best be, literally say wrinkle and throw it away somewhere and not use it at all, rule it out at all. And as for valorisation of projects in the competition, as for valorising the development of assisted areas through other projects, I think that some other criteria should be applied and applied. I'm saddening the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23150	Thank you. Please allow us to approach the vote. Amendment No. He didn't make it past 32. Moving to Amendment No. 33rd also the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23151	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very similar to the position on the previous amendment, which means that it is not accepted with the reason that the increase in funding in this item for 2017 is secured in the amount of 72.7 million kuna, which is an increase of almost 50% compared to 2016, and we consider that the guarantee for 2017 for this type of project is quite sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23152	Re-esteemed counterpart Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23153	Thank you. My comment will be the same, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23154	Please allow us to approach the vote. Amendment No. In 33, he also didn't get enough votes. So we move on to Amendment No. 34th of the same Club of Representatives. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23155	The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this amendment is not accepted with the reasons for the previous amendment, and I will re-absorb that the amount in this item in the 2017 budget has been increased by almost 50% and we believe that this increase has provided sufficient funding for 2017 for this item.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23156	Here's my colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23157	Thank you, Vice President. I hope that all these projects that we are not now putting into the budget through the amendments that you will have an understanding are about the municipality of Petlovac. And also, not now, not to list and not to use the development index, means poorly developed areas, we know what Slavonia and Baranja is, in what state she is, so I ask you when the projects that are going to work, that you will valorize to pay attention to the less developed areas and give them priority. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23158	Thank you. Please allow us to approach the vote. I find that this amendment has not passed either. So we move on to Amendment No. 35th also the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23159	The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the subject of this amendment is not to be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment since it is done almost, on a similar initiative. So an increase of almost 50% I think is enough for 2017 to provide support for projects with this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23160	Would you like to show yourself to your colleague Batinić? Comrade Batinić, clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23161	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23162	You got it. Let's approach the vote. The amendment did not receive a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to amendment number 36 of distinguished counterpart Frank Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23163	The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not to accept this amendment as it is to build a water network within the competence of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, or Croatian Waters. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is funding under the programme of sustainable development of the Adriatic islands, activities related to the promotion of the island's economy, the development of the island and I also have a fund to finance capital projects on the islands. The proposed reduction in the expenditure on staff and material expenditure on activities 828.001 is not possible since the planned funds are necessary for the payment of employees' salaries in the ministry as well as for the operations of the ministry. The reduction of expenditure on the Competitiveness Operational Programme would make it impossible for the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds to carry out its functions under the competence of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia during the financial period 2014-2020 and the Regulation on bodies in the management and control systems of the use of the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund with a view to investing in growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23164	I'd like to ask my colleague Vidic to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23165	Thank you, dear Vice President. So the issue of revitalising the island is also the meaning of this amendment. By solving water supply, a key infrastructure issue for the islands of Capri and Žirje as well as for Obonjan. The project Obonjan Riviera on the same name island of the Sibenik archipelago is significantly more than tourism because it brings new values with new facilities and accommodation facilities on the island itself and encourages further take-off of Sibenik. It is considered a unique concept of tourist offer in Croatia and fully fits into the vision of the development of Sibenik tourism. In addition to tourism, the project should ultimately contribute significantly to the revitalisation of two of the most remote islands in the Sibenik archipelago. So it's about Capri and Jury who have about 8 hundred inhabitants together. I don't think the government is doing very well when they refuse this amendment. For 25 years now, we have been living in a free Croatia and I think it is high time that we are calling for island development, the revitalisation of the island, the survival of the island's population that it is high time to take some concrete steps. This would be the move, but unfortunately, this government has no hearing about it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23166	Please allow us to approach the vote. This amendment has not passed. So we move on to amendment number 37 of the same representative of the distinguished colleague Frank Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23167	The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this amendment is not accepted because the funds already foreseen for that project are under funding from the European Regional Development Fund, and the rest of co-financing must be foreseen from the local or regional budget as it would otherwise constitute state support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23168	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the fortress of St. Nicholas is one of the four fortifications surrounding Sibenik. That fortress is also the most valuable if you look at it. She's at sea, and I'm not happy with your explanation because with a million kunas as scheduled or I don't think she'll get rid of anything. It's only being transferred from year to year but nothing on the fortress itself is being solved unfortunately. There you go. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23170	Let's approach the vote. I find that this amendment has not passed, too. I also thank the secretary of state because we are now moving on to amendments concerning the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Minister Oleg Butkovic is with us. Amendment number 38 of Representative Frank Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23171	Dear Vice-President, fellow MPs and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia do not accept this amendment for the reason that the funds for the preparation of that share are planned under the Croatian Roads Financial Plan as an extra-financial beneficiary of the state budget. At this moment, the construction is under way, the construction of a spatial and traffic construction study of the road network in the city of Sibenik. The study is tasked with carrying out an analysis of the existing state of the entire road network and to make suggestions for improvement including the arrangement of existing intersections and other procedures to increase the level of service of the existing network of state roads. All in order to solve the whole traffic problem in the city of Sibenik. Croatian Road Society d.o.o. together with representatives of the City of Sibenik, a description of priority procedures will be drawn up and a priority investment will be established after the study has been carried out and a project documentation process will be launched.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23172	Thank you. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23173	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers so the City of Sibenik is the only city in Dalmatia that has no four lanes to the city's driveway, and we have a big problem with that in the summer months. So what I'm looking for is a way out of the loop from the highway to the node of Dubrava. So about 300, 400 meters like that. The fact that you're calling for a study, that study, it's in the works. What I remember about 15 years ago. So fast road, it is part of the fast road Sibenik-Knin continues to reach the border. I don't think that's a good explanation, that you should have accepted this because during the summer months, and that's what we've witnessed this summer, we're making extremely busy right on that road. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23174	Okay. Let's go vote. We'll have to vote again because there's not enough of us. I ask representatives who are not in the hall or who are not in their place to come to their seats so that we can vote again. Here we have a sufficient number of MPs, but an insufficient number of those who vote for the amendment so he hasn't passed, so we move on to amendment number 39 of the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23175	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23176	Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23177	So it's the same explanation, but it's another problem. It's the east entrance to town. The Sibenik has not solved it to this day. It's one of the black dots if I'm not wrong at the Adriatic Master's. Since you do not accept this amendment, it speaks of the care of this government for Sibenik, for the development of the Sibenik-Knin County and for everything that is related to it. I don't have any more words, but I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23178	Let's approach the vote. I'm guessing Amendment 39 didn't go through. We are moving on to Amendment 40, also of Agent Frank Vidovic. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23179	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment with the same explanation, but with a brief note. And the Njivice node and the Ražina node are in the Plan of Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23180	Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23181	Thank you. Dear Minister, all these knots have been planned for 20 years not one day. But they're not made to this day. No traffic situation has been solved. What I've been looking for is solving a traffic node outside shopping malls where a traffic light has been set up that also causes traffic jams in summer and winter, on one side. On the other hand, it really endangers traffic safety. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23182	Thank you. Please let us vote. Amendment number 40 didn't get enough votes, so we move on to amendment number 41. HNS representative club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23183	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted. Corridor 5C of the A5 border highway with Hungary, Beli Manastir, Osijek is a project of the Croatian highway company that is not financed from the state budget. The importance of building this infrastructure project on corridor 5C, meaning the completion of the Hungarian border is and the importance of its construction is unquestionable. At the moment Croatian highways cannot be credited, you know for what reason. However, we are working intensively to realise this through the modification of the operational programme coherence and cohesion in 2014, and we still have a chance through the CEF. So at this point, together with HAC, we're working on trying to close the funding in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23184	Obviously, dear colleague Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23185	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we're aware of this because we've had two good examples around Osijek. Because it was that the HDZ government prepared the documentation, the competition for the Osijek bypass and for the bridge, and we realised in our mandate. It's the other way around on the corridor. We solved the property-law, the preparation of the paperwork. Now, in your term of office, there's been a realisation. And it is clear that the HAC cannot be in charge today, but that is not enough reason not to make that road in this term. The CEF will not go, it can hardly go my way, but it can be found ways not to collect the corridor of these last kilometers the cheapest means possible in Croatia because Baranja is the way it is finished. Take this as an obligation, go to Osijek, arrange with the mayor, mayors or mayors on the track and give them your word that you will end up in your term of office, Corridor 5C. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23186	Let's approach the vote. The 41st amendment didn't get enough votes, so it didn't go through. So we move on to amendment number 42 of the same club of representatives. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23187	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment for the reason that the fast road Podravska fast road of a particular section has already been built. They remained in the phase of the production of the study project documentation, and some are in the construction phase. The funds for the construction of that road are planned under the Croatian Roads Financial Plan as an extra-financial beneficiary of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23188	I'd like to ask for an indication. He's a colleague of Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23189	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, we understand everything from where this is financed. And you said the parts were built, so it's done for how long? 15 years. What I expected you to say here is that as the phase was sometimes done faster, sometimes slower that it will certainly continue and that this road that is from Koprivnica to Ilok will go with certain detours that are still being built in some phases will continue to be built and that when you look at the map of Croatia, then really that part of Croatia is the ugliest-looking part of Croatia, so to speak, is the most underdeveloped. So the truth is when you said phases were already built. We have all participated in this, your mayors, mayors, ministers, our mayors, ministers, but here at the Croatian Parliament is the word of the minister to concentrate on additional construction and completion of the construction of Podravska road would be nice to hear. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23190	Voting please. The amendment didn't go through. We're moving on to Amendment 43 of Honorary colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23191	Thank you very much. That amendment is not accepted. The port administration of Pula is a port administration established by the Istrian County to manage ports of local and county importance. For infrastructure construction projects in such ports at the position of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, it is ensured through the position of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in the port of public transport motors of county and local importance, and the modernisation of the reconstruction of the construction of fishing infrastructure of 50 million kuna which will be intended for projects to be applied to the Ministry’s call and evaluated according to established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Pula port administration to run an amendment proposed co-financing project. In 2016, two million kunas and 750 thousand kunas in rebalancing were approved through the same programme in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23192	It's obvious, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you yourself brought out the data as much as in 2016 it went to the expense of the construction of Luke Pula's reconstruction. And you and I both know it's a project that doesn't last a year, that doesn't last two years, that's going to take a longer period of time. Why? Because it is a comprehensive project, because it is an expensive project and because it is a project for which Istria County is one of the most financially developed counties, if not the most developed county in the Republic of Croatia itself has no funds. That is why, because of the importance of this project for the city of Pula, it is my request that in the budget we define this item until the end of the project that you and I both know is constantly working on, not that every year we are going to launch competitions related to, that every year we question whether to provide funds and ask questions from the beginning, whether or not this year will continue. As in the 2016 budget, I asked for an amendment to Luka Pula, I will look for it this year, as long as the project is not completed. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23194	Please vote. I find that this amendment has not passed, too. We're moving on to three amendments to the IDS Representatives Club. The first one's number 44. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23195	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23196	Thank you. Dear colleague Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23197	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So we all know, together, that the city of Pula is one specific city that has been one first of all a strong military industrial fortress for the last hundred years, and that it is one of the few cities at sea that doesn't basically live in its port, which is, for example, Mediterranean cities, along its waterfront, because it's de facto so far, it hasn't even had. That's why we're going to build our coast, but as you're coming from the coastal city yourself, you know very well how expensive underwater works are, especially, building a new waterfront, but we accept your explanation and I'm not asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23198	Please allow us to approach the vote. This amendment has not passed. So we move on to amendment number 45 of the same club of representatives. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23199	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23200	Apparition of the club of MPs, Col. Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23201	It's a different situation, though. My fellow vice president may not have heard well about the previous amendment I did not ask for a vote because I accepted your explanation, but in this amendment it is difficult for me to accept the explanation I will try to explain why. Namely, the very large harbor in Luka Pula has been built yet for the period of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and can unfortunately conclude that indeed the largest part of the maritime infrastructure has just been built in our city by the decision of Vienna. The harbor protects a large port area, but it is indeed in poor shape and what we have done on the ground so far, so we have produced the necessary project documentation to make the reconstruction of the harbor itself physical. So this harbor protects indeed the entire port area, one significant part of our city but it is no less important since, in the context of Luka Pula itself, there were many military zones, military areas, which are currently owned by the Republic of Croatia, so state property, the reconstruction of that harbor creates assumptions for the development of that area. You yourself know that if one of the Austro-Hungarians singled out significant assets to build such a single building, and I will say that it is the largest building in our city, then it is clear to you that this unit of local self-government with miserable budgets with crumbs left on the local level cannot be built on its own and without the help of the state, so it has been 100 years since that former Austro-Hungarian monarchy, I think it would be right for the political Zagreb to respect that Istria is part of Croatia, that it is a big Croatian town and to invest funds to resuscitate the harbor and thus protect the port area and the city of Pula for the next 100, 200 years. I demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23202	Please let us vote. The amendment didn't go through, so we're moving on to amendment 46 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23203	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The Rabac port administration, meaning the same answer as Pula's Port Authority. The Ministry has secured 50 million kunas. The Rabac port administration needs to prepare documentation and apply to the ministry, and that's that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23204	The obvious from Tulio Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I am not satisfied with your response to the refusal of this amendment. Namely, the Rabac Port Authority has prepared documentation with a construction permit since 2006. So for ten years we've been running this project, but we've never been able to get that positive indication. I would like to point out that Rabac is a port in the middle between Rijeka and Pula and that the eastern coast of Istria that has the resources for tourism development, and this year there is one of the largest investments of 600 million kuna in the development of tourism, that we do not have a protected port on that part of the coast. So the sailors who sail the Kvarner, and we know which infidels happen in Kvarner, have no port where they can get away. And it also bypasses us for the reason that the port that exists is not protected, and we believe that the public infrastructure has to monitor the infrastructure where the private sector invests in order to have even better results. I would like to point out and stress that Istra today gives 800 million kunas more to the state budget and I think that after ten years of documentation and all the conditions for the realization of this project should be supported by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23206	Please vote. The amendment has failed, so we move on to Amendment 47 of Honored counterpart Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23207	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The Port Administration of Šibenik implements the project of modernising the port infrastructure of Sibenik, funded by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Further development of the port area of Sibenik and the port area managed by the port administration of Sibenik-Kninska County, which are touched in the city of Sibenik requires preparation so that the provision of proposed funds without a clear project co-financed is premature demand, especially as infrastructure port projects can and should be co-financed from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23208	Observation of fellow Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23209	Dear Minister, here you are, saying that these projects require preparation. So I invite you through this amendment to make that preparation. It's about the heart of the city practically, the Coast of Dr. Franjo Tudjman, which is the most valuable part of Sibenik for sure. There is also a berth on it now, but the coast is falling, and it is not far the day when the collapse will take place. She's already in the good part slipped down. So, I'm sorry you're not hearing about this amendment either, but I would really ask you to respect my arguments in the future and to allocate funds for revitalising that part of the coast. So, the coast of Dr. Francis Tudjman and the Fallen Youths is also important in the city of Sibenik. In addition, I call you on this path if it is not already going so give at least in agreement with the city administration, call a concession for the port of nautical tourism in the area TEF because it is in all spatial plans and I don't know why the city's government is waiting with it. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23210	Please vote. The amendment didn't get the required majority. I thank Minister Butkovic. We now move on to amendments relating to the Ministry of Environment and Energy. But before that, we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored colleague Peje Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Either you or Mr. Petrov hurt Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because my colleague Franco Vidovic, in exactly the same way as I, requested that the funds for this amendment be settled from the item of the current donation to the Holy See, so in the case of an amendment submitted by the applicant, he said that they were not in accordance with Article 38(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The bill on budgets and the vote on them was denied, and now a vote is allowed for the amendment of counterpart Frank Vidovic. That is why I ask you to determine whether the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament hurt you now or the President of the Assembly Bozo Petrov 45 minutes ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23212	Okay. I would ask you, given that I believe there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure to address the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you, too. I would now like to ask Minister Slaven Dobrovic and the amendments concerning the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. [[Strengular coat of arms: I thank you.]] Amendment number 48. HNS representative club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23213	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. So Amendment number 48. HNS, HSU. The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the amendment of the HNS Club of Representatives, HSU, which requires an increase in the ongoing project of the Irrigation System to sub-group 363 – Aid within the general budget, amounting to 10 million kuna, is not accepted for the reason that funds in the state budget are provided for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of external irrigation systems in accordance with the needs expressed by the counties. The financial plan of Croatian Waters also provided 15.8 million kunas of Croatian Waters and 1.7 million kunas of County funds. Also through the rural development programme, 4.3.1 financing is the construction of a irrigation system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23214	It's obvious, dear colleague Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23215	Thank you very much, Vice President, Minister. So the estimated increase is that in Osijek-Baranja County we have 12 projects that are now being done and prepared. And at that stage, the assessment that these 15 million as planned will not be sufficient and indicated. The increase relates to the provision of the necessary financial resources for the national component to the extent of the 4.3rd rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia. This measure provides financial resources for the construction of individual irrigation systems and benefits are those measures of the county which are also owned by the Water Act by the irrigation system built from national funds or other sources. Support funds for this measure are provided by the EU with 85%, the national component is 15. Since it is apparent that a national component of these 15% will not be enough of these 15 planned million and I do not see problems in the overall budget and we all swear on the irrigation processes in one of the ways that the most underdeveloped parts of Croatia develops. What was the problem with not granting us another 10 million kuna? So as we have the planned resources of measure 4.3, as we have projected projects, we have the certainty that they will also be realised by this 10 million increase. But okay, that's your choice. We'll finally see what the rebalancing looks like, but I certainly want a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23216	Thank you. Please allow us to approach the vote. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Moving to Amendment No. 49. IDS representative club. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23217	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 49th is not accepted. Therefore, the amendment of the President of the IDS Club of Representatives, the PGS of the LRI, to the Proposal for a State Budget for the period 2017/2019. an increase of 5 million kuna per programme 302 environmental protection for the purpose of handling process chemicals in DINA and Petrochemija d.d. I've been thinking about liquidating. I'm counting on 323 on the subgroup. The amendment is therefore not accepted for the reason why the Minister of Environment and Nature has been acting in its March 10 act. In 2016, it adopted a Decision appointing the Committee on the Identification of Dangerous Substances and Risk Levels in DINA d.d. in the bankruptcy of Omisalj PO 1 and which has established that the area of the plant according to the established fire threat assessment is classified in another category of fire threat requiring the implementation of the fire department with three professional firemen on duty and equipped with fire equipment and equipment. The Committee for the identification of hazardous substances and the level of hazards in DINA Petrochemija in Omisalj’s bankruptcy, analysis of the risk assessment including the worst possible case, found that the risk to human life and health, material goods and environmental protection, relative to the distance of populated areas, roads and sea shores at acceptable limits that, by nature, stored chemicals without human activity cannot have a negative impact on the population in the period ahead of us. Based on the assessment of safety and protection, we believe it is necessary to maintain a system of expert supervision of the facility and to ensure the location of the unauthorized entry of third parties due to possible fires. Since there is no direct threat to human life and health, material goods and environmental protection, in the meantime, before taking any action, since the bankruptcy procedure and the open liquidation of DINA Petrochemija d.d. was conducted. It is necessary to establish the owners of valuable land, plants and chemicals DINA Petrochemia d.d., the powers of the bankruptcy manager in relation to the bankruptcy mass which is the subject of these activities, the way in which controversial chemicals will eventually be taken care of if they have market value it belongs to the creditors, who is authorised to enter the facility and any other issues related to the availability of the bankruptcy mass of DINA Petrochemia and whether there is even a legal foothold that the costs of possible recovery are paid to the burden of the state budget or the costs will be charged to the bankruptcy mass in view of the current level of the threat. Once all the necessary information is determined, it will be clear Here, it is over, in which the DINA Petrochem complex in Omislje will be rescheduled and will be the total price of chemical care because it is certain that the total amount of recovery will be significantly different from such a flat-rate amount in the proposed amendment from which it is not visible what activities should be financed to any extent. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Ministers, I would ask you to shorten the explanation.]] Here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23218	Thank you. All I'd ask is for a little shorter explanations. Here you are, dear colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23219	Thank you very much. Yeah, uh... The commissions absolutely as I am informed you have also visited this facility at the end of June of this year but apart from the commission and the goodwill what is necessary is therefore necessary to resuscitate this area, i.e. the process chemicals that exist there and that pose a danger to both citizens and nature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the company is therefore in the process of liquidation, it is unquestionable that these chemicals need to be taken care of. In addition to goodwill and other than the establishment of the commission, financial resources should be provided in order to take care of process chemicals. That is why we have submitted this amendment just to prevent possible endangerment of people's lives and pollution of nature. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23220	You got it. Let's approach the vote, please. The amendment didn't get enough votes. I thank Minister Dobrovic. We now move on to amendments related to the Ministry of Science, education there is Minister Pavo Barisic with us. Amendment number 50 is the amendment of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. I'm asking for the minister's testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23221	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. Under this activity, a project to resocialise drug addicts and co-finance programmes to prevent addiction in primary and secondary schools for which funds are provided from other sources of funding such as the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Education and Education Agency is financed. The Ministry of Science and Education in the framework of the competition for associations with activities aimed at incentives outside institutional education and education is also funding projects that are implemented in compulsory partnership with schools, and in the school year 2016/2017. The ministry finances 33 projects concerning prevention of unacceptable forms of behaviour such as violence or addiction totalling 2 million and 70,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23222	Thank you. An obvious colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23223	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. You said in your statement that these five hundred thousand kunas and how much more did I realize 2 million and something on top of that is enough to deal with the problems that plague our children during education and for which we need to allocate as much money as possible. I have seen that in the budgets of the past years the amount has been almost identical and the trends are not good, the trends that occur in our children are unfortunately not good at different types of addiction and on this side I think it is much more opportunistic and smart to invest money in such programmes than, for example, invest money in increasing the costs and Office of Prime Ministers and also Presidents of the Republic. When we look at 2015 compared to 2017, it is 1.4 million kuna costs more for the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we almost did not increase our school addiction prevention programmes. And there's a very clear message that Mrs. President kept her promise made in 2015 about moving her office to another office, reducing the cost of her office now would be more money for these programs that we're talking about here. And that's why I suggested that this amount be increased to a million kunas and that the presidents of the Republic take down five hundred thousand kunas, which is more than she had in 2015. So on the one hand, we're increasing the cost of the Office of the Prime Minister and the Office of the President of the Republic. And on the other hand, we don't have the opportunity to increase the programs that are necessary... [[Attack Jandroković: A fellow Maras timed out]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23224	A fellow Maras time's up. I'm begging you, just a minute, so none of the MPs since I've been sitting here as chairman have left the box for two minutes. You've already received a warning once, and I'm really asking you not to do that, because the second warning is that you'll lose the right debate. So please hold for two minutes. Here's the request, I think it's correct for all the colleagues and colleagues sitting here. We are now voting on this amendment. I find the amendment has not passed, so we move on to the number of 51 respected colleagues Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23225	The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened by earlier commitments. Furthermore, the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017 and the broader explanation is similar to that of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23226	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23227	As already explained by his colleague, Grbin, this argument relating to the funds provided for in that paragraph in the budget is not correct. And unfortunately, I think that these funds are not enough for the simple reason that we are witnessing an increase in disease of addiction and prevention of disease and addiction should be one of the key tasks of this ministry not only classical to say disease and addiction but also new forms of disease and gambling addiction, but especially concerns the increase of alcoholism, so it really takes more care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23228	The vote. Please join the vote. The amendment didn't go through. So we move on to amendment number 52 of Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23229	The amendment is not accepted by the Government on the grounds that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. The Ministry of Science, education is funded outside the primary and secondary education programmes as well as technical culture programmes from four. Sources of incentives to organizations for extra-institutional education and education of children and young people 6 million kunas, incentives to the Croatian community of technical culture 16.3 million kunas, promoting programs of work with gifted students and students 600 thousand kunas, encouraging outside of teaching activities in primary schools 991 913 kuna and promoting outside activities in secondary schools and higher education 1.3 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23230	Thank you. Please showcase colleague Hajdrukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I cannot accept your argument. I think that encouraging students to deal with technical culture learns more about it and eventually studying technical sciences should be one of the specifics of our education system the more we keep talking about so-called. STEM areas include technical culture. And you know very well that students who will not study will not go to schools dealing with technical culture during their education have technical culture only in primary school and only 35 hours a year, or 140 hours throughout education. I can agree that there are some other sources of funding, but when we talk about gifted students, it's only 600 thousand kuna, so it's funny colleagues and colleagues. Well done to the community of technical culture, they work very hard on it. But I think and hold that always a motivated teacher, or teacher with sufficient resources, who in direct work with students who work with for many years is a much better solution than an association, a much better solution than any other electoral institutional thing we use here. Therefore, I think it is necessary to provide this item with a team more than I suggested on this item its introduction. He's got 0.00 kuna right now. So, a million kunas that would be removed from the work of the Office of Prime Ministers who already have more than enough, I think a million kunas is more than a symbolic sum for such an important area, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23232	Thank you. Please allow us to approach the vote. The amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so let's move on to the next amendment of the 53rd Honored Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23233	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017 and the broad explanation is as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23234	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23235	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I must admit, you've confused me with this answer. Says the funds are enough to meet the objectives set, and the planned funds are zero. So the planned funds are zero, how is that enough? That's a little weird. So nothing was planned. What I propose is that you plan the funds because you have abolished technical culture programmes in primary and secondary education and it is in the planned budget of 2017 zero. Now, you explain to us, you have a chance to explain to us that zero kuna is enough for activity. It means that there is no activity at all, or you feel that such programs are not necessary in primary and secondary schools. I tell you that they are necessary, that you should be very concerned, that our children are wondering if they will be in 5, 15 or 20 years, how to develop their creativity and technical skills. Not that such activities should be left to entrepreneurs like Nenad Bakic, who made Croatian players league and donated 4 hundred robots to our students in schools to show their creativity and acquire knowledge. And you're telling us that it's enough to invest zero kunas in technical culture programs. That seems scandalous to me, gentlemen. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, it's no problem to increase the Prime Minister's 4 million kuna office expenses and the president's 2 million. It's quite all right, and to see that nothing will change in the coming years these costs remain at that level. Tell us, Mr. Minister, how is that zero kuna enough for planned programmes in 2017? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Jandroković: Time is up again, fellow Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23236	Are you asking for a vote? Please vote. The amendment didn't go through, so we're moving on to Amendment 54. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23237	The amendment is not accepted, and the Ministry of Science and Education is funding outside the primary and secondary schools, and these programmes include technical culture programmes from four sources. These are incentives to organisations for extra-institutional education and education of young people worth 6 million kunas, incentives to the Croatian community of technical culture 16.3 million kunas, encouraging programs of work with gifted students and students of 600 thousand kunas, encouraging outside teaching activities in primary schools 991 thousand 913 kuna and encouraging outside teaching activities in secondary schools and higher education 1.3 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23238	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask you to explain again why Mr. Minister refuses this amendment because, not this explanation of what is proposed in the amendment. Please explain again, because it has nothing to do with this explanation with the amendment No, no, no. [[Intruder Jandroković: You want a vote?]] I want to, the gentleman mentioned technical culture, and the amendment talks about rewards for outstanding results. You understand? So I don't understand why the minister explains something quite fifth of what was proposed in the amendment. So it's possible to say anything here. It's possible to say out there it's cloudy and then you ask me if I want to vote on the amendment. So this isn't about what I suggested. I'd like an explanation for why you're refusing to do what I suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23240	Now I'm gonna make a precedent and ask the minister if you want to add anything or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23241	Here, let me just. So I counted a whole series of measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23242	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23243	Incentive to the Croatian community of technical culture of 16.3 million kuna is one of the measures that is part of the incentives of this assembly. I'd like to appreciate that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23244	Okay. Would you like a vote on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23245	Mr. President, what is the number of amendments we're talking about right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23246	Would you like to vote on Amendment 54?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23247	What amendment is this about? Tell me which amendment is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23248	It's about amendment number 54.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23249	Well, it's not, so it's about awards for excellence and awards for results in education, it's not about the Minister's technical culture. All right, let me help the minister. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23250	Thank you. Let's vote. I find the amendment by my colleague Maras has not passed, so we move on to Amendment number 55 of distinguished colleagues Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23251	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23252	Thank you. An obvious colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23253	Indeed, perhaps the minister was confused he might need a coffee break because he is now on the same amendment that Maras and I tabled a completely different explanation. Therefore, two amendments, two different explanations and interpretations. Therefore, it is regrettable that these funds cannot be increased, the minister says they are sufficient, it is about state awards for exceptional results in education and technical culture. So can we not increase these rewards to be twice as large as they are now to be a million kunas and thus give recognition to the people most responsible for the future of the Republic of Croatia? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23254	Okay, let's approach the vote, please. I understand that this amendment has not passed, so we move on to Amendment 56 of the same counterparts Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23255	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. As part of this activity, the work of the crisis intervention team is financed, and projects to prevent violence in primary and secondary schools for which funds are provided from other sources of funding such as the MUP, for example. In addition, the Ministry of Science and Education in the framework of competitions for associations with activities aimed at incentives outside institutional education and education finance and projects implemented in a mandatory partnership with schools in the school year 2016-2017, the Ministry financed 33 projects concerning prevention of unacceptable forms of behaviour such as violence or addiction in total amount of 2 million and 70 thousand kuna compared to 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23256	Thank you. An obvious colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23257	So, after one study, every fourth child is unfortunately exposed to at least one form of international or other violence in schools every day, not to mention violence that occurs to teachers. So the amount I've asked to increase from 500 grand per million kuna I believe could be secured and asked for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23258	Okay, let's approach the vote, please. I find this amendment has not passed, so we move on to Amendment number 57 of Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23259	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017 and the justification is similar to the earlier amendments in this paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23260	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23261	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am glad that the argument is similar because the amendment is the same and what my colleague Jovanovic said can only strengthen. So these aren't the means that are sufficient, that's not the way to deal with this problem, we need to provide children with quality education. And it would be really good to try to figure out what the priorities of this budget are and what the priorities of all of us in Croatia are. Which is why it is a problem for 500 thousand kunas to increase these programmes, and it is no problem to increase 4 million kunas of the Office of the Prime Minister or a million-and-a-half kuna compared to 2015, the expenses of the Office of the President of the Republic, which I will remind you once again, promised to leave that office in 2015. Two years have passed without intending to do so are seen in budget projections for 2018 and 2019. The expenses of the Office of the President of the Republic of 37 million kuna remain. So on the one hand, we can't tell here that there are enough 500 thousand kunas to prevent school violence, and on the other hand, not to cut costs that we have long ago or not, but the president has promised to be reduced. And I'm going to say one more sentence here, which is that if the students were happy that the president put this amendment herself, they would benefit much more than the chocolates she shares with her picture around Croatia. So come on, make the priorities set priorities that are important for children, give them programs that will benefit them, not chocolates and photos in...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23262	Comrade Maras, so you're deliberately crossing this two-minute deadline and this is now the last warning. No. This isn't about a substantial failure here it's about a technical failure and I am obliged as chairman to protect the integrity of all other MPs and MPs. And next time if you do, I'll give you a reminder by taking away the words in accordance with Article 240 of our Rules of Procedure. Are you asking for a vote on this amendment? Please vote. I find that this amendment has not passed. We move to amendment number 58 of MPs Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23263	The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened with pre-determined commitments. Furthermore, the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. Financial assistance to the Croatian Technical Culture Community is assisted by the action of the roof organisation that brings together 16 national associations of technical culture. In addition to the costs of their work, such as salaries, contributions and other items, programmes related to extracurricular and extracurricular education of children and young people financed from other sources in the state budget are financed, and other items affecting this item are also mentioned in earlier reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23264	Therefore, although the amendment was not proposed in accordance with the procedure, the practice so far was that the applicant could explain or be manifested about what the minister said. Here you go. But we won't vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This year marks the 70th anniversary of the Croatian Community of Technical Culture, and I believe that this increase would allow even more quality work, in particular encourage children to deal more with the STEM area, to focus on the STEM area and thus contribute to Croatia's economic recovery, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23266	Unfortunately, as I said, since the procedure has not been respected we will not vote, no such amendment has passed. We move on to the next amendment number 59 of MPs Gordan Maras. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23267	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. The Ministry of Science and Education has provided additional 10 million kuna in the framework of the European Social Fund for the Implementation of Calls for Encouragement of Work with Gifted Children and Students at Pre-Tertational Level. Project applicants can be primary and secondary schools, and the duration of the projects can be 16 to 24 months. Also, working with gifted people is funded through a tender for associations for projects that are conducted in a mandatory partnership with schools, with activities designed to promote extra-institutional education and education. The advantage of allocations is projects where end-users are children and students with special educational needs such as both gifted and children with difficulties. Compared to 2016, this activity increased by 200,000 kuna and 50 per cent respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23268	Thank you. It's an obvious representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's hoping that a second, two won't offend the HDZ colleagues who are probably waiting for the two-hour anniversary. I'm sorry when we're talking here...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23270	Comrade Maras, please, you, why are you disrupting this normal atmosphere that you constantly provoke?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23271	No, I'm saying what the citizens think. (Laughter in the hall.)
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23272	I'm asking you to concentrate on showing up on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23273	If it's ten seconds important to you, it's important for the citizens to hear what the MPs are saying, it's more commendable to you here if someone finishes in 15 seconds their reasoning than to fully explain what he meant. Well, I mean, that's amazing. So this is where people get punished if they want to talk. That's the problem, and it's not a problem, you're even stimulating people to finish in ten seconds. I want to say what I think about this and I think that six hundred... /The mess in the hall, the chairman of the bell./...and I don't think six hundred thousand kunas is enough for programs of working with gifted students and students, and I think it's necessary to increase that amount to one million kuna, and I think that every argument we hear here from Mr. Minister, ends with it being enough. So, you, Mr. Minister, have hit an ideal budget. There's nothing anybody can suggest here because what you suggested can't be better. It's all enough, it's all in a hundred, it's in a kuna, it's in a lip, and there's no problem. What's the point of the amendment, then, anyway? Why do we propose amendments when you won't accept any because everything is enough? I'm telling you that this isn't enough and that four hundred thousand kuna means a lot more than four tons of salmon supplied by Mrs. President this year and next year. She could have given up salmon, four tons she could have reduced to 2 tons of salmon... / Laughing in the hall.//...and singled out 4 tons of salmon could have gotten 2 tons of salmon and singled out for gifted students and I think that would have been a lot more right priorities than what you're telling us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23274	No matter how many tons of salmon there are, you're done. Do you want a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23275	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23276	Please vote. The amendment didn't go through. We move on to amendment number 60 of MPs to Gordan Maras. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23277	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2017 and for all necessary education programmes, for the implementation of national minority programmes which include: professional training of educators, teachers and teachers at the national level in the Republic of Croatia and countries of origin, summer and winter schools for students... /Nearth in the hall, chairing the bells./... members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and home countries, learning mother tongues at a distance, educational and educational programmes conducted by minority associations for members of national minorities, then printing magazines for children and similar activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23278	It's an obvious representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the explanation is the same as several previous ones. All that's enough. Mr. Minister's in lipo, in kuna, so watch this! 766.601 kuna. That's just enough. If it was 600, it wouldn't have been enough, but 601 kuna, that's enough to fill these programs. But I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister, one more question that you keep avoiding these days. Tell us what's wrong with your secretary, Gluncic, who demeans, insults the children of national minorities. And tell us, you have a possibility here in front of the Croatian public to answer that. [[Intruder Jandroković: colleague Maras.]] We are much more interested in this than these 601 kuna and a million kunas in the Croatian budget. Why do you support a man who discriminates against children who are educated in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much. And here's a minute, I'm giving it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23280	Comrade Maras, you will give us a lot more minutes because you are now receiving a 2nd warning, and after that other reminders in accordance with Article 240, I must unfortunately take away your word for breaking the Rules of Procedure and you have spoken outside the subject knowingly, deliberately, so I am very sorry, but that is so. You can look for damage to the Rules of Procedure, there's a lot of them, here's five, six. Here you go, seven. Comrade Bauk first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23281	Mr. Vice President, you hurt the article, it seems to me that 240th because you incorrectly applied Article 238's provision because Mr. Maras in the amendment on special programmes and education for the implementation of national minorities' programmes fully held the subject when he mentioned Secretary of State Glunčić because he said that our results were bad because of these tests, members of national minorities and fellow Members of Maras asked to increase the amount in the budget, so it is fully in line with both the subject and the context he spoke of so that I think you have misapplyed that provision of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23282	It is my opinion that I am not, so there is a Committee on the Constitution, a Rules of Procedure and a political system, so feel free to contact him. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected colleague of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23283	Article 238, so it is quite clear now from the minister's explanation that what his State Secretary said is that the effect of not accepting this amendment is the attitude of the State Secretary towards minorities. The secretary of state despises the minority, he said publicly, the ministry cares about the state secretary and the minister refuses to accept an amendment that increases funds for those same minorities. And you quite wrongly interpreting the Rules of Procedure take away the agent's word and he clearly explained the link between the Secretary of State and the refusal of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23284	And you can address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is a distinguished colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23285	Mr. Vice President, are you aware of your conduct here, not terror, it's too harsh a word but one parliamentary violence, not allowing a representative to talk about topics of vital importance to Croatian citizens, which is the budget. And I'm, if you insist on this I'll look on behalf of the club break, we'll talk about it if you need to after every amendment per break of 10 minutes. You can't do this. I mentioned why I think this amendment is important, and I mentioned Glancic. And you can't because I mentioned Glancic who is the scandal of this government, who discriminates against our children to silence me. You're not gonna shut me up, and you're not gonna shut up SDP's club as much as you're in a hurry for the reunion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23286	You're very cheap with your provocations. So I'm not in a hurry for the reunion, I can be here all day like I've been here all these days. Secondly, if I were to silence someone, I'm a very safe person, which everyone here can see and the public that I'm not keeping anyone quiet, and you're constantly, deliberately breaking the Rules of Procedure, you've been out of the time frame that you're allowed to do, I've tolerated you. You could have said absolutely anything you wanted but there is a theme that is prescribed and it clearly states in the Rules of Procedure that today's discussion is, or the Rules of Procedure predicts that it is spoken within the subject and today's topic is budget. You spoke to the Minister with a completely different subject. That's what you did. ... So don't come in, so let me, I let you say yours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I think you've made such a mistake that deserves a warning. And that's why I gave it to you, I warned you that I would do it, you obviously think you can do whatever you want here and I'm telling you that you can't, so you do whatever you want. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is a distinguished colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23287	Mr. Vice President, I believe that you violated article 240 by actually giving a warning that you were taking away your colleague Marasa's word and referring to Article 238 that he was not talking about the subject. Mr Maras asked for an increase not only in funding for children of national minorities, but also in an indirect manner in order to improve the standards and positions of children of national minorities in the Croatian education system and in society. However, it is quite clear, in this House for two days, three, absolutely when mentioned for you the apparently sacred name Gluncic ceases that debate, the debate is choking. The other day, I had to pray for a business break to talk about it. We try twice to hold a meeting of the Education Committee, as soon as the name Glunčić is opened and mentioned, there is no session, no members of the National Committee are chosen for this reason. Today, too, when colleague Maras only mentioned G, you immediately block it. Is it really more important than the dignity and dignity of the Croatian Parliament and Croatian society?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23288	Comrade Voter, time's up. So no one here has any intention of saving anyone, but today's topic is budget and budget amendments. It is also the duty of the president and chair of this plenary session to keep an eye on the respect of the Rules of Procedure. In this case, the Rules of Procedure were not respected and for this reason I was obliged to give notice precisely because the other 150 MPs respected the Rules of Procedure. So it's not right for them to let one of them disrespect. Here are my motives, no other motives. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic and you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23289	It seems that in the work of HDZ's way of interpreting the Rules of Procedure and doing what Mr Krstulović Opara did twice already at the meeting of the Committee on Education and Education. You interpret the Rules of Procedure as you should and you hide from the Rules of Procedure. So what my colleague Maras said is true. So it is true that the Secretary of State has sinned about the Law on Discrimination, the prohibition of discrimination, and that is correct, and this amendment by colleagues, Marasa, is talking about these children of which the Secretary of State spoke. And the fact is that as soon as the Secretary of State is mentioned to remove the Rules of Procedure, he hides behind the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and you do what you are already doing for 3 or 4 days to try to try to get the grass of oblivion covered by Secretary of State Gluncic and not talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23290	Thank you very much. So you didn't say at all what article of the Rules of Procedure was injured. ... It's too late now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, please, dear colleague Ronko, you have your word, too, and I saw that you answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23291	Almost everyone said what they had to say, I'd just add that fellow Maras wasn't coming out of the picture. ... 238, of course, in 238, and that you've injured this 238 article that's actually talking about what it means to get out of the topic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think you've overrun the team here more that your colleague didn't come out of the topic and put your hand on your heart so you'll see how you knew how to let it speak off the subject which has nothing to do with your brain.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23292	Thank you very much. Like this, we've exhausted the injuries now... Well, if you'll excuse me, I can see my colleague now tells me that you are, but here's what I suggest we calm down our passions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think it's a shame to disrupt the atmosphere that so far ruled here in the assembly. I will not take away the word of my esteemed colleague, Maras, but from now on, I ask that we stick to the Rules of Procedure both in terms of time and in terms of subject. So that's something that's a concession on my part and since we've been doing very well so far, please respect that and not go into further aggravation or further provocations. Here you go, pal Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23293	Thank you, Mr. Jandrokovic. Well, I was actually about to propose this compromise proposal to you, and I'm glad you accepted it, and so we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23294	A colleague of Hajdukovic's okay? Did you want to suggest that, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23295	No, I didn't mean to suggest a compromise solution. I believe that article 238 was injured for the reasons that colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned but I will ask that the Rules of Procedure Committee be made known, I will also request a session to see if the Rules of Procedure is truly respected and not respected and why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23296	Thank you. I don't think we voted on amendment number 60, it's an amendment to a distinguished colleague, Maras, so I'd like to ask you to join the vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so it has not passed, so we move on to the next amendment that is Amendment 61 of the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23297	The amendment is not accepted because the amended Law on Contributions of Contributions to the Insurance of Students and Students in practical teaching and professional practice for 2017 will be calculated and paid for in January 2018 at the amended lower rates and bases and the funds did not need to be planned for 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23298	The obvious representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although it is difficult in this atmosphere to freely explain and make arguments because you know that one word can cost you notices and kicks out of the assembly session, I will try to stay consistent and explain in my own way why I think this is simply wrong and why I think we have to plan these funds from our budget, which is because dual education in Croatia is of invaluable importance. We talked about it, we talk about, all the ministers in this kuna, say schools must also and students must acquire their education at the workplace, that is, at the future workplace and thus be more competitive and have better experience and knowledge but when it comes to providing funds then there is no such means. And it's very interesting to see where this budget increases resources and where it reduces them. When we look at this, so it comes down here, the funds come down to 0, I believe the minister will say or someone from the government will use EU funds, social funds, etc. But I don't think we should ignore the funds from our budget especially when we see that we have decided to invest several hundred million kunas more in education and we don't invest in our students anymore. And on that side, I demand a vote and I demand that all MPs in this House take care of future generations and education of our children, especially those related to dual education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23300	Thank you. Please vote. Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, so we're going to move on to the next one, that's amendment number 62 of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23301	The amendment is invalid because the proposed increase is not equal to the proposed reduction which is not in accordance with Article 38(2). Budget law. Furthermore, a detailed analysis of the number of users to be provided for co-financing of textbooks found that the existing funds were sufficient to co-finance textbooks for primary and secondary school students in accordance with existing regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23302	So it can be obvious but the vote won't be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23303	I apologize, there's been an accidental mistake of 700 thousand kuna not responding, but I'm sure the amendment wouldn't have been accepted even if it were true. And what I think we from here must send a very clear message. I am not satisfied with the fact that there is a great inequality in Croatia, that some cities and municipalities subsidize their children, some of them to no one and on this side are generally richer parts of Croatia that have money to subsidise their children's textbooks. So we have a terrible illogicality in Croatia, that in the richer parts of the country everything is subsidized, and where there is no money, where people are poor or poor there are almost nothing subsidized. I ask you to make sure in the future that, in all respects, your children in Croatia are provided no matter where they live with the same conditions of education. I think that as representatives, and you as minister must especially insist on it and I don't see who would be against that amendment at all, to vote on it, because I say it is not fair that in some small municipality in Gorski Kotar or Lica they don't have children for textbooks, and in other parts of Croatia where we have more money, they get that money. In the next budgets next year, please take care of this and allow your children in the Republic of Croatia to access free textbooks. And I'm particularly sorry that I see sympathy with some HDZ MPs which I cannot vote on on this amendment because I'm sure if we had a chance to squeeze and vote for, to make it possible. Here I see there Mr. Milinovic would vote safely for this amendment if he had the chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23304	Thank you very much. I see a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23305	... My apologies. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Jandroković: Microphone please.]] Article 212 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the vote on amendments related to Article 38(2) Budget law. Therefore, Article 38(2). The budget law states that the amendment can only be submitted to the budget if the reduction of resources in the state budget is foreseen at the same time. In this case, the reduction in the state budget is estimated to amount to 30 million kuna, while at the same time an increase of 29 million and 300 000 is foreseen. Therefore, the increase proposed by the amendment in question is less than the reduction which means that the amendment in question has been submitted in accordance with Article 38(2) and there is no obstacle to voting on it, which is why we will allow respected HDZ colleagues who have just expressed their desire to vote for it to do so and allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23306	Well, I have to admit, the explanation is logical. If the proposal is less than it was then we can approach the vote. Here's a chance for a colleague of Maras. Please join the vote. Unfortunately, the amendment didn't go through. So let's move on to Amendment 63, the distinguished colleague Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23307	The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened with pre-determined commitments. Furthermore, the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2017. The Ministry of Science, education is co-financed continuously outside the teaching activities of primary schools, and these activities are financed from several sources of funding that have already been explained in earlier amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23308	We have a first breach of the Rules of Procedure. But I guess it's the same one that was last time? Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23309	Your Honor, Mr. President, so Article 212, excuse me, Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the I'll repeat what I said while Mr. President chaired the session. So, in the 2016 budget that we voted on before, that is, with the amendments and additions that we voted on a month ago, it was found that for the religious communities under this agreement, 285 million kuna is paid for the Catholic Church. That budget was made on exactly the same premise. It is the International Treaty with the Vatican which provides that the amount of funds is arranged in a way that is multiplied by the number of parishes by the number of two, with the average gross salary in the Republic of Croatia and by the number of months. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia is autonomously deciding whether an amendment can be voted on or not on the basis of the figures that are to blame and which we cannot discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23310	That's your grade. I believe there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you can again address the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And I ask my colleague Jovanovic to explain his position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will immediately explain the next amendment to shorten the story, because it is about extracurricular activities in primary schools. It's this amendment. And the next one is high school and higher education. So, it's one of the very high-quality forms of work in schools and it's a shame not to allow more quality work which then ensures the adoption of knowledge, the acquisition of skills and competence, which helps students to get better results after leaving school, to deliver better results on the PISA tests, and it is necessary to increase those resources and therefore regret that the ministry did not do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23312	So, first vote on Amendment 63. Please let us vote. I find Amendment 63 has not received enough votes. We're moving on to Amendment 64. Comrade Jovanovic, you have already shown yourself about him. So it's just the Ministry's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23313	So the ministry, with the same explanation, proposes not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23314	Then please vote on amendment number 64. I also find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to Amendment 65 of the same MPs. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23315	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. The Ministry of Science and Education is funding the programmes of three private alternative primary schools with the aim of their affirmation of increasing educational diversity in Croatia and greater choice for parents and children. Each year, the ministry provides the amount according to the number of students enrolled, which is about 60 thousand kuna per month in the 2016-2017 school year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23316	Thank you. An obvious colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23317	I am sorry that the minister does not accept this amendment which is not too difficult financially, so I asked for an increase of 642,000 per million and 142 thousand kuna. It is not true that the funds are sufficient, and the three schools in Croatia in Rijeka and Zagreb have a chronic shortage of money and at the expense and burden of parents who have to extract funds from their pockets so that their children can go to the school they chose. The problem has been going on for years and year after year, representatives of these schools are asking for the funds to be increased so that the amount, unfortunately, is not enough. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23318	Please join the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move to amendment number 66 of MPs Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23319	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. Respecting the fact that a project and direct allocation of funds to the Ministry of Science and Education, called the Constitution and the Management of the Register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, has been provided to continue the development and implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework in support of the work of sectoral councils and other stakeholders in the implementation process of the Croatian Qualifications Framework implemented under the Operational Programme Effective human potentials 2014-2020, amounting to €11 million and €400 000 in the period from 1 July 2016 to 1 July 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23320	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that this amendment is not accepted for the simple reason that the Croatian Qualifications Framework is a reform package that should dramatically improve the quality of the education process in the Republic of Croatia and bring our qualifications closer to European qualifications. I know that there are funds from the European Fund for the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, but there is also a need for funding in the state budget to ensure all the measures needed to bring the Croatian Qualifications Framework to life, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23322	Please join the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to Amendment 67 of Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23323	In accordance with Article 38(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened with pre-determined commitments. Furthermore, the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017 and a broader explanation is given in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23324	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23325	So, Mr. Vice President, I cannot accept this argument that it is not in accordance with the regulations because some colleagues have already removed from this item the funds so called and voted. So it's not about commitments taken, it's about current donations that are not about contracts. I therefore think that the amendment is valid since others who have also been to this item have been voted. And I will drive only to my colleague Jovanovic and say that in the Croatian Qualifications Framework, where we are lagging behind in the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework of the Good Part and because of the completely unused last year I could talk all day, not two minutes. Croatian qualification framework tools in the process of modernising formal and informal education systems in the Republic of Croatia as is essential for a whole series of other segments of social activities, such as volunteering, competitiveness in the labour market and the like. I'm afraid that with this attitude, and even a symbolic increase in resources, you send a very bad message, and I will sum it up in something that a famous Roman speaker has said... /The speaker speaks Latin./... Croatian education or other words and after a shuster shuster.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23326	Since it's logical what you suggested, and there's a precedent before we vote on it. Please join the vote who's in favour or against. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. Next amendment number 68 of the HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23327	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. According to the number of children, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 7. The rules on how to make resources available to the state budget and co-financing criteria for the Pre-school Education and Education Programme are laid down by means of the state budget for public needs programmes in the field of pre-school education and education. Thus, a fixed amount of 20 kuna per child for the purchase of didactic funds and professional training of educators who work with these children through eight wars annually from 1 October to 31 May. Following the needs of all children about 40,000 children per year pass the preschool programme, sufficient resources are provided for 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23328	Dear Representative Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23329	Thank you. Dear Minister, here are the funds not enough and the capacity is not enough. It is a kindergarten in Oroslavlje for which all papers and building permits are built. In fact, a particular kindergarten has a capacity for 40 children, and in this kindergarten there are 70. So their wardrobe has been turned into one room for children to have a place to be, their things are all over the kindergarten and the real city of Oroslavlje has one great need for a new kindergarten because they need more than 120 children. So parents have to cope in a variety of ways because unfortunately their kindergarten does not have enough capacity. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23330	We're approaching the vote. The above amendment did not receive a sufficient number of votes. We move on to amendment number 69 of the HNS, HSU's Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23331	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017 and the broad explanation is similar to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23332	The re-reputed representative of Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23333	So this time it's the Municipality of St. Cross Začretje, to meet you, it's one of the few municipalities in the Krapina County of Zagorje there are more born than there are dead. So, with them, kindergarten exists as part of elementary school. The municipality has land that has its own property. There's a project that should be financed. Unfortunately, the municipal budget is not enough to bring the project to an end and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23334	Please join the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move to amendment number 70 of HNS, HSU's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23335	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017 and the justification is similar to that of the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23336	Reputed representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23337	This time it's a small municipality called Novi Dovevec. The municipality mentioned has a terrible bad road and municipal infrastructure and there is no room for children at all. So there's no kindergarten. Parents who go to work have a very big problem with finding out who's going to take care of their children, where they're going to take care of their children, and the whole part of the county actually doesn't have any kindergartens and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23338	Please join the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to amendment number 71 of HNS, HSU's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23339	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017 and the broad explanation is similar to that of the previous three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23340	Dear Representative Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23341	This amendment is about the municipality of Mihovljan where the kindergarten and so on is planned. small house for children with developmental difficulties. In fact, there is no place in the nearby and further surroundings where children with developmental difficulties could go to kindergarten and where she could hang out and be in society with each other. So a project has been prepared where an existing old castle is planned to be reconstructed, with the project being quite large in terms of the amount. The municipality, unfortunately with its small budget, is unable to build this kindergarten and therefore is asked to help the state so that children with developmental difficulties have an equal and better opportunity because unfortunately many parents are forced to take their children to Zagreb. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23342	Please join the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to amendment number 72 of HNS, HSU's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23343	The amendment shall not be adopted in accordance with Article 38(1). The budget law is because any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projection. In this case, a reduction in expenditure with a simultaneous increase in the expenditure of the state budget would lead to an increase in the permitted deficit. The appropriations proposed by the budget for planned activities in 2017 are also sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23344	The amendment doesn't comply with the law, but here's what we can do in accordance with the practice that we've introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23345	This time it's the Municipality of Gornja Stubica. A building permit was issued. There is land owned by the municipality. There is also a problem with the municipal budget and they urgently need a kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23346	Thank you. We move on to Amendment 73 of MP Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23347	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and are consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education in relation to this capital project. The project is co-financed by the City of Zadar and the Ministry of Demography, family and youth and social policy, and by 2011 more than 40 million kuna were invested in this project, and the proposed funds are sufficient to complete this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23348	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23349	Minister, you're right when you say that 45 million kuna have been invested in this project so far, but these funds have been invested between 2007 and 2011 from the moment of laying a cornerstone to stopping works. You know why, I don't want to go into politics right now, I don't want to go back to history, what kind of contracts have been signed, what happened here, but what I have to say is that this Center for the Education and Rehabilitation of Children, young and adult persons with developmental difficulties is an extremely important project for the city of Zadar. And if it is planned to continue with the work, or to disintegrate the legal breach with the help of the state's attorney's office, then I think we should single out, or speed up the dynamics and allocate more resources to that centre, as much as the centre is built in nature by 90%. And if we start working tomorrow there's no obstacle that in a year if we secure this asset we part of the city of Zadar which is ready and third, the second ministry that participates in co-financing there's no reason that the children who've been waiting for this center for nine years don't move into it until the end of this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23350	In accordance with the practice we have introduced, I will allow the vote. You're asking for a vote? Yes, well, we'll allow a vote, please join the vote. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. 74. HNS representative club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23351	The amendment shall not be adopted in accordance with Article 38(1). The budget law because any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not prevent the determined amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projection. In this case, reducing expenditure while increasing the expenditure of the state budget would lead to an increase in the permitted deficit. Furthermore, the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funding for these purposes in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 44. The budget law for those expenditures has adopted a decision on the multi-annual borrowing on the burden of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23352	The Honorable representative at least will speak, we will not vote on it because it is outside the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23353	Well, I don't know why we won't vote, but I apologize to all my colleagues and colleagues for having to talk about a public-private partnership again. In fact, I was convinced that in this budget these funds would be provided as they were in the 2017 budget projection. But I won't stop talking about it because I don't want my Varazdin County, Koprivnica-križevka County, my Ludbreg and all the others, or all the other units of local self-government, cities and municipalities in which schools were built according to this model. I was sure that the new minister would study all the advantages of this model of school building and that this is why he would suggest that it be applied in all other parts of our Croatia because all the advantages of one-way classes, heights, or the price of their construction and all that is achieved through centres of excellence, all that is achieved through the results of students in all the competitions and all the rest of the benefits and what has been withdrawn from 60 million kunas precisely for these extracurricular activities through these centres of excellence that will be sufficient reason to accept this and you to pass this on to the rest of Croatia and that is why I am really disappointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23354	Thank you. The next amendment is No. 75th Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, Marija Habek, Damir Tomic and Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23355	The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened with pre-determined commitments. Furthermore, the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funding for these purposes in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 44. The budget law for those expenditures has adopted a decision on the multi-annual borrowing on the burden of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23356	Again, according to the practice introduced, we will allow the vote but of course the argument is there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23357	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Here's how my colleague mentioned this same problem before. I'll repeat it because it's twice. Your former leader Ivo Sanader has promised long ago that the problem in Varazdin County will be resolved but he has only promised it according to the old good practice of HDZ. At that time, the Ministry of Education, headed by Mr Jovanovic, signed co-financing agreements for... the school buildings and solved the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you want to renegotiate those agreements and prevent children from going to one-way classes. You do what you shouldn't do, and that's to show strength to the weakest, and we're all talking about education being very important to us. You will make it impossible for children to go to one-way classes together, to go to school together and not have two-step classes and ask for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23358	Like I said, we'll allow a vote because it's different than the previous situation. Please vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is No. 76th Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23359	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funds for these purposes in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 44. The budget law for those expenditures has adopted a decision on the multi-annual borrowing on the burden of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23360	Here's your esteemed representative, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23361	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. So that's exactly what we're asking you to predict the funds. You can't explain that it's impossible to accept the amendment because you didn't predict the funds. So we're asking you to predict them and when you said whether the government or not the government took over the funding obligation of 32 projects in the Varazdin County, one in the Koprivnica-Kryzeva County, I don't know if you think that my colleague Jovanovic on my right was not a member of the Croatian government? So in 2013, when he signed the agreement, he did it as Minister of the Croatian Government and the government stepped behind the project. Now, which is why you in HDZ act like there was nothing before you and why you look at the way we're here can do anything, and where we're not going to be anything. This is not fair to the citizens of the Varazdin County and the Koprivnica-Kristevina County. And that's why we're asking you to use this amendment and all the other amendments because there are still some public-private partnerships to bring back these projects you see this means you have the opportunity to open a school and a hall where 45% of the funds will be provided by someone else. So the county or the city instead of taking advantage of that possibility and becoming the hero of the Varazdin County you do not use it but you punish the citizens of that county just as you punish all those who disagree with the views of your Secretary of State Gluncic who has said the past few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23362	Thank you very much. We'll put it to a vote even though it doesn't meet the conditions. The amendment did not receive the majority of votes required. The next amendment is the 77th Honored Representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23363	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funding for these purposes in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor has the Government decided for those expenditures on multi-annual borrowing on the burden of the state budget. In addition, if the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has taken over a certain agreement in the same government, the Ministry of Finance has not granted approval. The reduction in the amount of public and cross-urban student transport activities would also prejudice the implementation of the Government's programme on co-financing and financing of public inter-urban transport involving around 75 thousand secondary school students.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23364	Dear Representative Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23365	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers would disagree with you. You are no longer exactly saying that the government is not in debt and neither has the ministry predicted. We also last year here at the expense of the city means from our budget we made one such hall in a settlement, a suburban settlement that belongs to the town of Čakovec. We still have a hall in Kursanac where 60% of the children are members of the Roma national minority. The city no longer has the means to borrow, so tell me whose obligation is education? I think that education in Croatia is compulsory and that all students should be created equal conditions for education regardless of what part of Croatia they were in. And that's exactly your ministry's obligation. And this where I've made it possible for you to take it off means it doesn't need any additional borrowing like you said and it's not meant to agree, but I don't agree that additional borrowing is necessary. Because as I wrote the planned item you increased by 2.3% compared to 2016 and better implementation of public procurement can result in savings. We know that everyone who works in local self-government and who deals in public procurement when you call a public tender, you always get up to 10% and less. People fight for work and want to do business, so they put less prices and the budget envisions 289 million. If you take off, you don't have 10%, but you see that enough for this amendment that I've made, it's just a question of whether this government has the will and desire to be as high-quality education in the Republic and that all children have equal conditions for education. Thank you. I'm voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23366	Thank you. Let's approach the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Next amendment to the 78th Honored Representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23367	The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with Article 38(3). The budget law which has been prescribed that the proposed amendments should not be burdened with pre-determined commitments. Furthermore, the provisions of the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funding for these purposes in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor has the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided for those expenditures on multi-annual borrowing on the burden of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23368	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23369	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I will just remind myself that I am from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County of the county which is one of the most underdeveloped in the Republic of Croatia and the County Assembly two years ago or more has unanimously made a decision to support this project. So regardless of the options found in the congregation. Furthermore, the municipalities and cities in which this project is to be implemented also supported the participation of the financial project of the public-private partnership and the improvement of education should be reflected in cities, municipalities, regardless of whether the HDZ, SDP, HSS or the mayors or the mayors are independent. I am disappointed that it has been stopped, which has stopped public-private partnership projects especially in my county where state aid is absolutely necessary. And I'm surprised that this amendment today is not in line with the law, and a year ago when we were making a budget on it it was and wasn't listed as problematic in that regard. I, regardless of which, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ask you to let us vote on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23370	Thank you very much. I'll let you vote on the amendment. Please vote. I find that the amendment has not received enough votes. The next amendment is the honourable representative of Stjepan Kovaca No 79.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23371	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that by reducing the amount of public inter-urban transport activity for pupils, the implementation of the Government's programme on co-financing and financing of public inter-urban transport covering around 75,000 secondary school students is at stake.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23372	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23373	Mr. Vice President, I don't think anything would be questionable, but it just takes a little goodwill and all that can be done. It does not have to be removed from this item I wrote, but before my colleagues mentioned if you look at the Office of the President, Office for Protocol, Support for Government Work, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has an increase of 154.4%. We're talking about the Education Center here, we're talking about millions 150.4% increase in government alone. This is where we talk about children with disabilities. That building was built 40 years ago. The town of Čakovec has invested a certain amount of 18 million kuna so far. So complete documentation, we also gave land for it. We've brought infrastructure. I'm sorry the state has no hearings like Varazdin and Virovitica where such a center was built with the help of the government. I don't know why the children in Međimurje are less valuable to this government and why it is not found that such a thing is not done, because unfortunately the town of Čakovec and the community cannot do it alone, and this is the only building in the area of the entire Međimurje County. So, where do kids go with developmental difficulties? She's capacitated for eighty students. It's got 185 students in it right now. Unfortunately, these kids are having lunch in the hallway while we're here having a nice meal, and the prime minister's making new offices better in the government for four years, and your kids are eating in the hallway. It's sad and devastating! And I'm sorry that my colleague in the HDZ is on the phone right now, and he doesn't care. And for the previous decision, Parliamentarian Horvat of Međimurje voted against it. I'm sorry he doesn't have a patriot's place, which they don't vote for local projects, because it's not for me. It's important for the entire local community. And I hope that the government will find a solution to help the Center for the Education and Education of the Chakovec to be made. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23374	I would ask colleagues not to mention the names of other colleagues, other parties, etc. in the reasons of their amendments. It's not polite at least. We'll join the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to Amendment number 80 of Honored Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23375	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funding for these purposes in the state budget, nor has the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided for those expenditures on multi-annual borrowing on the burden of the state budget. I would just like to remind you that this provision was introduced into the law in 2001 and that in September of this year, the report of the State Audit said that it was impossible to finance from that item then, according to this law, to issue funds from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23376	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23377	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. That is why we have you to correct these shortcomings in decisions or decisions and to implement what is both the county and 11 municipalities, or 11 objects of several cities and municipalities, and they have accepted that 11 buildings will be built. So sports halls in 7 elementary schools and 4 high schools. And you, Mr. Minister, will explain to the children in Hercegovec why they do not have a hall for which the municipality and county and state of money, in Dežanovac, in Velika Pisanica, in Kapela, in Predac, in Chazma, in Bjelovar and finally in Daruvar. 11 objects. What's wrong with that, and why is that stopping? Which is why it is not possible to single out in a joint project of the county, city and municipality to create 11 of these objects. I am sorry that there is no Janice Kostelic here because it is about sports facilities so that our children have this basic infrastructure. But money can be given for Andrej Plenkovic, for Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and for tuna, for salmon pardon. But she's got tuna, believe me. But money can be given for all those to whom the budget is increased and for whom the budget should not be increased. And on the other hand, I want to tell you in these 11 schools, since you won't continue to refer to Glancic. And now a parent texted me and told me to ask the minister, my daughter has all fives, a child with special needs. Does it fit the criteria of Barisic and Gluncic? Answer that question Or are they speaking out loud, not understood. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much fellow Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23378	Thank you, colleague Maras. A colleague of Maras what you've been trying to do with my predecessor in this place now obviously you're trying with me, performing an estrada and show here from something everyone else is seriously doing here, including your colleagues from your party. So don't argue with me. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the time and you've already received two warnings. I won't hesitate to exclude you from the session at all. You probably want that, then your show would turn out to be even more interesting for the media, I'll try not to afford it. We will now vote on amendment number 80 of MPs to Maras. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to Amendment 81 of Honored Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23379	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017, in accordance with existing regulations and contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23380	Here's a distinguished representative, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23381	Thank you very much. With the proposed amendment, I only suggested that the amount be the same as it was last year, so I doubt the funds are sufficient and I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23382	Please vote on this amendment. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Thank you. The next amendment is the number 82 of Honorable Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23383	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funds for these intentions in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, but rather in the budget of the founders and co-financing holders, i.e. counties and cities. The capital investment in primary school is also financed by the completion of the remaining project in the city of Split, co-financed by the construction of the primary school of Pazigrad, for which the contractual obligation and the approved consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the multi-annual debt on the burden of the state budget has been taken over.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23384	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23385	The primary school of Fr. Pavel Vukkovic is proof that all governments of the previous make promises, and apparently they had neither intention nor intention to do so in the Cetina region. Of course, there will be future governments but the fact that the project for Fr. Paul Elementary School has been paid by the Ministry of Three Million Kuna, which means that it was eventually thrown into the wind by previous governments, with it being in the 2016 budget of two million and 100,000 kuna. I personally insisted on it, then she could be in the budget, other schools in Split in Pazigrad could be, but the fact is that the county game falls in, of course, because she has to satisfy the interests where their party colleagues are in power. The fact is that the ministry didn't control the project as well as the city and it just happened from a planned project planned for 50 million kuna that we have 118 million kuna project documentation for the completed project. These are three stages, a hall, a school and the Jacob Gotovina Music School in Sinj. I believe that there is room in Sinj we have empty barracks and we have this documentation to remain in this position but in 2006 Minister Primorac, when, with the days of the alka and all the following ministers came mainly to Sinjska Alka and promised this project, unfortunately nothing. From you ministers and at tomorrow's meeting where we will be both the Ministry and the Minister of Property and you and the City of Sinj and the County that a solution will be found and I ask you to vote for this amendment exclusively from the fact that all governments that deprive the people of Sinj of the Cetin region, Dalmatinska zagora, Like and all others can be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23386	Please vote for amendment number 82. The amendment didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is Amendment 83 of Sabine Vosovac and Arsena Bauka.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23387	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funds for these purposes in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, but for the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, i.e. county and cities. I would add, in a similar way to the previous amendment, that the funds provided for in this year, which were just by warning the findings of the State Audit, challenged the legality of the use of funds for this purpose, and, as the distinguished representative Mr Bulj said, precisely the Ministry of Science and Education is looking for ways if it is not already possible to act against the law to help together with other ministries to resolve this issue in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23388	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23389	Mr. Vice President. Encouraged by the results of the last vote where there were only 10 votes missing for five million kuna, which would be a hit in the srid, we now have at least a chance to hit two for the school in Sinj. So we asked, Mr. Bully asked for five million kunas and got 49 votes. So for two million kunas you could raise 60 votes as much as you need and that would be a hit in two. So when the government hit nothing, I call on MPs to at least hit two for school in Sinj and small alkara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23390	Please vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is the number of 84 Clubs of HNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23391	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and are consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education in relation to this capital facility which is financed to complete the rest of the project in the city of Split and to co-finance the construction of a primary school in Pastigrad, which is already mentioned for which the contractual obligation and the approved consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been assumed for several years on the burden of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23392	Thank you. Who's going on behalf of the CNS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, of course we're not happy with your answer. This sports hall began to be built in 2015. The Orehovic municipality provided land from its modest budget and provided funds for the first phase. By 2014, nothing was done because Međimurje County has too little budget, which is 40 million kuna. The municipality has too little budget. In 2014, it started with the construction of the next phase, complex walls, a complex roof. There's no more money. It is a sports hall for the Municipality of Orehovica, for the elementary school of Orehovica, for a school with 300 students and 292 students, respectively, of which 155 Roma are. The municipality, which has 2700 inhabitants, 600 Roma, 500 people working outside the municipality and out of the state. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23394	Please join the vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to amendment number 85 of HNS, HSU's representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23395	The amendment shall not be adopted in accordance with Article 38(1). The budget law is because any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. In this case, the reduction in expenditure, while increasing the expenditure of the state budget, would lead to an increase in the permitted deficit. Furthermore, the planned funding in 2017 is also sufficient in line with the dynamics and the level of funding commitments undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23396	Honorable representative Topolko will give us an explanation, but we don't have a vote on this. It's against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23397	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I invite you to come visit Vladimir Nazor Elementary School in Pribislavac. The primary school which is held at the Festeć Castle in 1850, a castle that was reconstructed for school purposes in 1967. Humidity destroys literally classrooms. Among other things, not to tell all the details. It is a municipality that has 2900 inhabitants, which has 68% of Roma, which is a municipality that has managed to secure land where Međimurje County has managed to provide funds for the foundations, however, it cannot continue. I believe that if it is doing anything else, it would be necessary and for that national minority we have and that I have mentioned in the previous amendment, which Međimurje has about 10 thousand, that at least one project could have been accepted. Here I once again invite you and your associates to visit Vladimir Nazor Elementary School in Pribislavac and elementary school in Orehovica to see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23398	Thank you. We move to Amendment 86 of the Croatian National Club of Representatives, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23399	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and are consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23400	Dear Representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23401	Respected, this time it is the Antun Mihanović Elementary School in Petrovski and the funds sought are intended to expand the school and build a hall. In fact, they are not the only children in Čakovec who have to eat in the halls and who do not have a dining room. In addition, these children have nowhere else to teach their body. So, God forbid it's winter, it's raining, kids just don't have gym classes because they don't have room for physical education and then they improvise in different ways in classrooms. This amendment aimed at expanding the school so that, apart from the sports hall, there would be room for one - sense teaching. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23402	Please vote on Amendment 86. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment 87. HNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23403	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and are consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23404	Dear Representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23405	Thank you, Vice President. So here are the municipalities of Radoboj for which funds are sought was the only municipality in Krapina-Zagorje County that worked its school hall absolutely alone and spent 9 million kunas of budget money, then the county that partially helped build the hall was included. All the other halls in the county were built with the help of the state. And for this reason, we believe that it is justified to ask the state to help expand the school so that the school is in the most modern, equipped with the most modern equipment and that it is possible for children to attend school in one shift and to have an extended stay, which would also help parents working outside the municipality and their children unfortunately have to spend some time alone because the school has no extended stay. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23406	Please vote on Amendment 87. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. 88. HNS representative club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23407	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments assumed by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23408	Reputed representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23409	This time it was the Đurmanec municipality, namely, they started building their school hall 5 years ago, so far they spent 10 million kuna in the building of the school hall, of which the municipality financed 4 million and Krapina-Zagorje County 6 million kuna. Unfortunately, at the pace that this construction is going to end, the hall can be expected for 3 to 4 years because unfortunately neither the municipal nor the county budget has the opportunity to end it before. Another bad circumstance is that the construction, or completion of the hall, cannot be applied to any competition for the reason that the building of the hall has already begun. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23410	Please vote on Amendment No. 88. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment 89. HNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23411	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments assumed by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23412	Dear Representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23413	Ljudevita Gaja elementary school in Krapina operates in a building over 100 years old. The primary school attends over 700 children, and unfortunately they do not have enough cabinets even in two shifts, and they will be intertwined with quite a few watches. For a long time, it has been planned to build a new school that would be adapted to new and more modern education and, among other things, we believe that one-way teaching is something that is needed to exist today and is available for our children. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23414	Please vote on Amendment 89. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. The 90th representative of Mark Vesligai and Dr Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23415	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools are not intended to provide for the provision of funds for these purposes in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia but rather in the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, i.e. county and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23416	The Honorable High Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23417	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers yes, you said it was not the obligation of the state, state or state budget to provide the funds but rather the obligation of the founder. The founder of the regional self-government unit, as mentioned earlier by a colleague from the HNS, mentioned earlier investments by the county and by the municipality. However, what we have done with these revenues, we have left a hole of 800 million kuna for the county, municipalities and cities with tax reform. And I'm asking you where you're from now on to secure these funds to complete the school, sports hall. And sport is I'm going to remind you of one of the strategic specifics of this government. In point 2.4, you clearly say that this government will invest in a number of smaller sports facilities. Unfortunately, with this we send one bad message, we send a bad message to sport, but we send a bad message to the entire Krapina-Zagorje County because I see that there is somewhere to finish such objects and apparently the Krapina-Zagorje County for your ministry is the last hole in the play. I ask to vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23418	Please vote on this amendment. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Now we're going to amendment 91 to MP Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23419	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools have defined that one of the conditions for the head of the school institution must also be the possession of a licence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since not all assumptions have been made for meeting this deadline, the Ministry of Science and Education has drawn up a proposal for a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which proposes a new deadline to be moved until 1 January 2020. In accordance with the above, the licensing of directors will not be carried out in 2017 but exclusively preparation for those activities and the resources planned in the national budget for the mentioned activities shall be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23420	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23421	The Honorable Minister to the one who wrote you this explanation, I would have quit. You know why? Because you've read that the deadline for the director's license has been extended to 2021. We are finishing today with the meeting of the Parliament, your law which passed the public debate has not come to this House and is still within the deadline of 1 January 2017. So in 16 days, no director will be able to be elected for reasons that will not satisfy the condition which is that he owns the license because this Croatian Parliament that adopts laws and changes laws has not changed that law, it is the first. Secondly, why am I looking for these funds and I believe that the licensing project must begin immediately? You have two completed projects that you know, two models, we've left them, it's been working on them for a long time, pick any, but I don't think we can wait any longer with the license. There is no person in the Republic of Croatia, especially a parent or anyone who is personally related to education who will not tell you that you need to raise the quality of our schools and remove the influence of politics from the same schools. We will only do this in a way that if the principal call is professionalized, if we raise through licenses means professional level of people who manage schools, in this way we will also contribute to the quality of school work, better student success but also greater trust not only of parents but also of the entire society in such extremely important institutions as our schools. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23422	Thank you. Please vote on amendment number 91 that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is 92. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23423	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools are not intended to provide for the provision of funds for these purposes in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, but according to the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, or in the budgets of the county and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23424	Dear Representative Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23425	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, the number of amendments that go from the level of local and regional communities in terms of providing funds for the construction of primary or secondary schools is in favour of our country being overcentralised and that local units simply do not have enough resources to build it on their own. This is an example of a secondary medical school in Pula, which is attended by 266 students who, partly due to the danger of the building, left one part of the school building in 2003, while in 2010 students left the site completely due to the particular security issue. That the regional self-government unit as the founder of hospitals tried to build a school through a public-private partnership, however, because of the problem exactly the private partner did not succeed. That's why we thought it would be a hearing since we're building a new hospital in Pula where a medical staff is needed and the school really has a large number of students and a nice tradition that the state level will also have a hearing for local need for the reason it is therefore a necessary need that is definitely the highest priority when we talk about secondary schools in the Istrian County. I would therefore, although you have refused this amendment, and I understand that you have rejected all the objections to the amendment, that is the position of the Government, but I would ask the Minister to consider, however, what would be the possibility if not this directly within the budget to find a way to help, because I will tell you when to fill the budget then we are among the first, and when something should return to Istria obviously we are among the last. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23426	Please vote on an amendment 92 the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to amendment 93 of Representative Mark Velligay and Dr Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23427	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools do not provide for an obligation to provide funds for these purposes in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia but rather for the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, i.e. county and cities. Allow only this explanation at the end of a series of amendments relating to this item that what you have numbered here and the amendments shows that the provisions of the Law on Breeding and Education do not actually stimulate that they do not allow the decentralised resources of the founders of the county and cities to co-finance enough the construction of their schools and would like to discuss a different legislative framework at the next adoption of the budget or in the future. So the amendment is not accepted unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23428	Honorable representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23429	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers of High School Zlatar is the only school in Krapina-Zagorje County that has no suitable space for physicals. And what's interesting is that according to some work ethic, so Krapina-Zagorje County and the works of the north so that Krapina-Zagorje County and Zlatar and that school built themselves for 16 years. Not only did they build it themselves, but they actually bought it from one former hall, so they bought it very rationally, and for 16 years slowly, as if Bob the builder himself were building. So, just these 3 million kunas, especially in the light of the budget's up to 6.5 billion kuna, I don't think it's much of a cost to your ministry. This way I can't get the impression that maybe because there's a mayor of SDP in Krapina-Zagorje County that maybe in most SDP cities there is power, that you have a slightly discriminatory performance or approach to the county. I am also sorry that these 3 million kunas must be found in Mr. Butkovic's apartment buildings, because I was really trying to find an amount of 3 million kuna in your item, for example to encourage plagiarities. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23430	Please join the vote on this amendment which the Government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move to amendment 94 of MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic, Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23431	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in Article 1(2). The Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod since 13 October 2015 prescribed that the University is formed by the merger of the University of Slavonski Brod, the Faculty of Engineering at Slavonski Brod and the University of Josip Jurj Strossmayer in Osijek, dislocated studies at Slavonski Brod Faculty of Education and Educational Sciences of the University of Josip Jurj Strossmayer in Osijek and the student centre at Slavonski Brod of Josip Juraj Strossmayer University in Osijek. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The laws of the University of Josip Jurj Strossmayer should be made within a period of 90 days. However, this decision has not been made to date and it falls within the autonomy of the university and can be made tomorrow and can not be made at all. Only after that decision has been taken, in accordance with Article 14(2) of the second paragraph of Article 14 may the University be entered in the court register. Without enrolment in the court register, a new one cannot be opened, a new activity cannot be opened in the state budget for the financing of regular activity. And I would add in the end that, without prejudice to when it will be made and whether that decision will be made, all high school institutions in Slavonski Brod are regularly funded and have the opportunity to expand the beauty of their study programmes in line with the needs of the labour market and citizens of Slavonski Brod and that part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23432	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I cannot be satisfied with the answer. I can accept some techniques, but I can't generally say I'm satisfied, but I'll tell you why. Hypothetically speaking, the University of Osijek can make that decision tomorrow. When he makes that decision, what do we do? Can't we go straight to budget rebalance tomorrow? How are we going to bridge that part? In fact, my colleagues and I who submitted this amendment thought it was Secretary Schuster's slip, since this item was either a similar item or a reserve that was not put into the budget. We see that this is just a continuation of that policy, so it's a policy, not a failure. Because I'll remind you again. The Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod was adopted on 25 September 2015. The law was also confirmed by Croatian President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović's decision as of 1 October 2015, and we think that this should go to a team more than the University of Osijek is the only university in the east of Croatia, while, for example, the south of Croatia can boast with a large number of those. I think that's how we strengthen Slavonski Brod as a micro-regional centre. And he's afraid that if you continue to have a policy like this, we really have a Shuster after Schuster, and you're really sending a message... in Croatian education... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's not good because if you keep going like this, it's not gonna be a rhetorical figure anymore, it's gonna be a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23434	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 94, which the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We are moving on to Amendment 95 of Honored Representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23435	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017, i.e. to comply with the requirements of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration to verify the eligibility of costs for development research projects under the old State support programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23436	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23437	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, these funds are not enough. If they were twice as big, it wouldn't be enough either. We know that in Croatia, funding scientific activities is one of the priorities of your government. This is stated on several occasions, however it is not seen from these funds that are intended. In this way, project financing of scientific activities will not ensure that Croatia increases its share of science funding according to the plan that was adopted by 2020. And I'm sorry that there couldn't be an extra 10 million to at least get close to the targets that were supposed to be achieved in 2015. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23438	Please vote on amendment number 95 that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment of 96th Honored Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23439	That was 96. It's 97.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23440	No, it's 96 now. This was 95.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23441	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2017. That's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23442	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23443	Well, to hear from colleagues at all, I mean, the amendment is rejected, the thread is said, neither is it. So it's about supporting innovation processes. If we talk about the competitiveness of Croatian society, then there are three key factors. These are innovations, entrepreneurship, intellectual capital. We are just when it comes to innovation at the beginning of the EU, so these miserable 785000 kunas as support to innovation processes will not help us get off that bottom, and my proposal would be to increase it to 2 million 784 thousand 990 kuna and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23444	Please vote on Amendment 96, which the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment 97 of the IDS Representatives Club, PGS of the LRI.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23445	The amendment is not accepted because the above applies to own and dedicated revenues which can be made up to the level of revenue achieved. In accordance with the Budget Act for institutions in higher education and science, the obligation to show total income and receipts and expenditure and all sources of funding in the state budget and the achievement of their own and dedicated incomes and receipts, and the cost of expenditure financed from these sources excluded from payments to the state budget, shall be reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23446	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23447	Here is Mr. Minister, therefore, one of the objectives of the Government is precisely the possibility of withdrawing funds from European funds because we all know together that we could apply certain activities or projects in particular capital needs to be fully resolved by property law, to produce project documentation ultimately resulting in the validity of the building permit. So our young University of Pula relatively young, which I dare say, is still well-developed so that it can be expanded to introduce new areas of education and training lacks simple space. We're like a regional community and we've given up some former facilities of the former hospital that are incorporated into the university itself, and that's how I think it's going in the right direction. But for one more significant and stronger step if the university had sufficient own resources then it would not be necessary to submit an amendment to the state budget and seek such funds. So I think this amendment is going towards meeting the government's programme, which is more important to use EU funds. But you must also have the possibility of your own participation and do the previous work that is therefore complete project documentation. That is why we also wanted to allow our university to actively participate in this process. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23448	Please join the vote on Amendment 97 which the Government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is the number of the 98 Clubs of IDS Representatives, the PGS of the LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23449	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and are consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education in relation to this capital facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23450	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23451	So it's about the same theme, it's the University of Pula Jurja Dobrile and we're not really big on this amendment that's 500 thousand kuna I think there would be at least one little sign of goodwill that could have been adopted, and in this way a message would have been sent to take care of science and to look evenly at developing science throughout our country. We are really like Istria by a lot of things first, but when we talk about funding the university there it seems to me that the competent ministry is looking at us at the beginning. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23452	Please vote on amendment number 98 that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Now we're going to Amendment 99 to the Honorable Representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23453	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in 2017 are sufficient and consistent dynamics and the level of co-financing commitments undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education in relation to this capital facility, so with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23454	My colleagues, please let my colleague Grbina answer. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23455	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment is essentially identical to that submitted by my colleagues from the IDS, and I could now say there's no need to explain it, but there is. And there is a reason why both colleagues from IDS and I and eight months ago submitted the same amendments to the 2016 budget. One of them was the one for the University of Pula's eu funds, then your predecessor, the infamous Minister Sustar, rejected those amendments by saying the funds were not needed. The funds for the eu funds were reduced by more than 40 times. And then what happened? It's all back in rebalancing. And why was it returned? Because this university gets more money from eu funds than it gets from the RS budget. This week, a contract was signed to draw 58.4 million kuna with eu funds for 248 more beds in a dormitory. How? I work for people from that university. So please give me gentlemen, 98% of the funds in the RS budget for the University of Pula look at the item going to staff costs. So how do you plan to develop education in the Republic of Croatia when 98% of the funds go to staff costs? From what will we make programs, what will we buy from? Well, the computer can't be bought. Shame on you. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23456	Please vote on amendment number 99 that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to amendment number 100 of Honored Representative Miranda Mrsic. It's the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. Honorable Minister Coric will give an explanation on behalf of the government. CONTINUED AFTER THE COUNTRY in 13.55, Honorable Minister Coric will give an explanation on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23458	Good afternoon, everyone. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is not to accept the amendment. The reasoning of this position is that the funds planned for 2017 under the Ministry of Labour and Pension System of a billion EUR 500 million 874 thousand 685 kuna are sufficient for active employment policies in 2017. Specific figures for the active employment policy provide funding for activities – Active employment policy of 293 million kuna. On activities – Compensation for users of active employment policy measures of 550 million kuna. On activities – Action Plan for Roma amounting to 10 million 805,000 kuna. On activities – Operational plan for the inclusion of persons with an approved international protection of 5 million kuna. On activities – Effective human potentials of 641 million 629 thousand 685 kuna. The increase in funds is particularly reflected in co-financing programmes from the European Social Fund. In this context, we note that the total implementation of these programmes in 2015 was 165 million 484 thousand 688 kuna, while in this year it is 333 million 927 thousand 402 kuna, which is an increase of 101 percent and points to a more efficient withdrawal of funds for items of activity from European funds. The Ministry of Labour and Pension System, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, intends to continue in 2017 with this dynamic and with this dynamic to increase the financing of activities from the European Social Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23459	Thank you. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23460	Thank you very much. This is the continuity of HDZ policy in the area of employment policy. The same trend that was in 2016 continues again. At that time, we warned that at the position of the state budget, the €260 million will not be sufficient to finance all young people who wish to access this measure of vocational training, but also other measures as funds from the European Union are resources limited to the conditions for young people to access this measure, which means that if you are older than 25 years of age, you cannot access the scale of how it is financed from the European Union's funds. If you have one day of work, then you cannot access this measure financed by the European Union. Therefore, you will again make it impossible for young people who have worked and earned and worked hard during their lives and worked and worked hard to gain a year’s work experience. Also, all those over the age of 25 will not be able to access this scale and get a year’s work experience that allows them to find a job and over 60 percent are employed after a year spent on this scale. This is what happened in 2016, it will happen to you in 2017, that in the 6th month, June, you will not have enough funding to finance all those requests that are coming to the Employment Office, and among other things, the requirements of February this year are now approved, which says that they will continue in 2017. I am sorry that young people will not have a perspective or will be able to get a year's work experience, and with this stay in Croatia that is the declared policy of all of us sitting here in the Parliament. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23461	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 100 that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We're moving on to amendment 101 of the HNS representative club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23462	So this amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment because the funds are planned within division 086 – Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to Activities – Funding and co-financing of the programme of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, sufficient to carry out professional rehabilitation activities or to compensate for the costs of people outside of working relationships. We also point out that the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is mostly financed through the source – Assigned revenue and receipts from the cash compensation paid by employers due to the failure to meet the quota obligation of employment of persons with disabilities and less from resources of sources – General incomes and receipts, and are planned in 2017 at source – Assigned revenue, again enough to finance that activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23463	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23464	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. So we currently have three active centres in the territory of the Republic of Croatia: Rijeka, Zagreb, Osijek. It's in the establishment of a centre in Split. Based on the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities are the founders of all these centres together with the Republic of Croatian Cities and in the Osijek-Baranja County case, which is completely irrelevant. And it looks nice this argument that part of the dedicated income is not part of the intended revenue, but what is the fact that centres are prescribed standards by which they must provide professional rehabilitation services at valid low service prices cannot finance their own operation and in the first nine months it looks like this to you. In Osijek in the first nine months, the centre has received 90 thousand 800 kuna, and the cost of professional staff, only psychologists, social workers, doctors, medical specialists and lawyers, means the people we defined by law must have, we do not list this other administrative and professional service or material costs – 360 thousand kuna. It's the smallest center. You've got a new center coming up. It's impossible for us to have the next center in operation this year with the resources you've predicted. Very likely increases in rebalancing will occur. That was our proposal to deal with it right away at the beginning of the year. You'll be spending relatively quickly these funds and you'll be making up for the rebalance. I'm just asking you not to question the functioning of the center. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23465	Thank you. Please join the vote on amendment 101, which the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We will now take a break during which will be a reception in the hall of Ante Starcevic, a joint reception of parliamentary representatives and parliamentary staff. I'll see you at 3:00 again here. MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23466	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] I call on Minister Kujundzic to come to the pay phone. Amendment No 102. HNS representative club, HSU. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23467	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. The amendment is not accepted. For example, Articles 4 and 24. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases is laid down that the counties, i.e. the city of Zagreb, municipalities and cities are required to ensure the implementation of public protection measures against infectious diseases, prescribed by this law and the means for their implementation, as well as professional supervision of the implementation of these measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23468	Thank you. On behalf of the applicant of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed colleague Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23469	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. So the amendment went towards co-operation between local administrations, regional and government. We are in the past term for the first time in a rule... budget funding needs, treatment of mosquitoes in the city of Osijek every year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now there is some space in the budget, and it never came to the result that we wanted to solve the mosquito problem, and we know it, the question is no longer just health, which is absolutely a priority, but also the quality of life and even tourism potential. And this amendment wanted us to realize that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is helping municipalities that today have no financial capacity and budget capacity to solve this problem in those parts of Osijek-Baranja County which are also affected by the same problem. The city of Osijek solves but we have in Baranja a number of municipalities that are related to Drava, a series of municipalities that are related to the same problem. And if the Government of the Republic of Croatia found in this term 5 million kuna that in the area where we have a real problem and a health and hygiene, I think it would mean a lot regardless of who is in which position, when it means a lot to the citizens. So I ask you that no matter what the authority of the local and regional self-government units, we know this, but I say we regularly helped from the reserve budget in the area of the city of Osijek where the largest number of inhabitants to find funds during the year, in the first half of the year before the mosquito season begins, so to say, to help the municipalities of Bilje, Darda, Erdut, Petrijevci, Draž, Marijanci, Petlovac, Jagodnje, there are millions of them there with Belista, Valpo, because 5 million kuna is not the amount that the government cannot find much easier than any other unit of local self-government. But I want you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23470	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vrdoljak. Before we go to the vote just to ask Mr. Pernar if you're back in the HDZ or are you sitting there by chance? ... You're back, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, thanks. Here's a vote for this amendment. [[Intruder: Lassie's back.]] Thank you. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move to the amendment of the IDS, PGS-A, LRI Amendment No. 103. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23471	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, this institution is owned by the Istrian County where it is intended for medical rehabilitation and has contracts with HZZO with a total of 36 beds. The hospital is included in the public health care network to provide patients with health services based on a contract with HZZO. Therefore, investment in health tourism in a specific case outside the insurance framework is available quality health care in the hospital system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23472	I thank Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the promoter, imported colleague Sponza Giovanni.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23473	There you go, Mr. Minister. In fact, we have proposed a sustainable model of funding based on which we propose that both the city and the county finance the 50% amount of the project mentioned and that we look at the remaining 50% of the necessary funds from the state level. Why? Croatia is both a functional and financially highly centralised state. Dr. Martin Horvat’s hospital in Rovinj has a truly huge potential on both domestic and foreign markets as far as health tourism is concerned. I would just like to remind myself that the basis of the tourism development strategy is one fundamental goal to affect the extension of the tourist season with an emphasis on the development of health tourism. The strategy itself lists the action plan for the development of health tourism, and we actually wanted to create a new offer with this amendment, create new added value, which would create new jobs particularly highly qualified and thus generate walks for the state budget. Given that we have proposed this model and what I just said is that everything is expensive in the tourism development strategy itself, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that together with our colleague, Mr. Cappelli, we really find a model that is financially sustainable because there is a huge interest in the market and offer of health tourism. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23474	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi. Please vote on this amendment. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move to the amendment of IDS, PGS, LRI Amendment 104. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23475	... Fortunately, it does not fall under the counties of the first and second groups, i.e. the development index, because it is a developed county and is expected to provide the funds required in the county frameworks. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23476	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dear colleague Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23477	This amendment seeks funds in the budget for the reason that, from each tax reform created at the government level, local budgets are getting smaller and smaller and this is the result of exactly one such policy. It is about Istrian health homes in Pazin which you station it in a building dating back to 1953. And when you don't have enough resources for all your activities then normally focus on those priority ones and then most often suffer space maintenance. Therefore, due to insufficient decentralised funds, there is no investment in the space that should be invested for years, but I say once again, what is less evil or lower priority is being applied, and therefore today we have a situation in the City of Pazin that the establishment of Istrian homes of health has no adequate space, this building is absolutely energy inefficient and is not suitable for carrying out this activity. That is why we have sent this amendment to the state budget because you can be sure that if Croatia was decentralised, we would not need to ask for an absolute single drop from the state budget. So we have addressed this amendment and I am asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23478	I thank my esteemed colleague Miletic for this explanation. Please vote on this amendment. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move to the amendment of the MPs in the Croatian Assembly of Mr Sinishi Varga Amendment No 105. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23479	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment shall not be accepted for technical reasons. By way of derogation from Article 38(3) of the Budget Act, the amendments are to be defined as proposals. In line with the above, it is apparent that the amendment does not comply with the legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23480	I thank Mr. Secretary. The promoter doesn't have a way to explain it. Since it does not comply with the legislation, we will not vote on this amendment. We move on to the next amendment of the distinguished colleague Sinishi Varge MP in the Croatian Parliament, Amendment number 106. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23481	The answer is the same. The amendment is not accepted and the fact that it does not comply with the law cannot therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23482	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Also, a colleague is not present, and we can't get an explanation. Since it does not comply with the legislative procedure on the amendment, we cannot vote. We move to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU, Amendment 107. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23483	The amendment is not accepted. On the capital project K61824 the renewal of the health infrastructure of V3DP is planned for the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank to finance 7 under the projects in accordance with the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, 6 of which are already completed, and during 2017, the completion of the seventh and General Hospital of Zadar and the completion of the three loans of the Council of Europe will also be expected. The planned funds for 2017 are sufficient for the completion of all project activities and for other purposes these funds cannot be used either for the House of Health, Čakovec which was not or could be included in the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23484	I thank the Honorable Minister. On behalf of the applicant, the explanation of the imported colleague Bernada Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23485	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, as in the previous case when I called on the Minister of Education, I invite you to come and see what kind of buildings the House of Health of Međimurje County works in. The buildings are 50 to 150 years old and are located at 4 locations in the city, completely inaccessible to the individual population. The Međimurje County has 113800 inhabitants, of which is about 10,000 Roma. Unfortunately, we've been looking for seven million kunas to finish a building that essentially takes 16 million dollars to finish. In 2015, the foundations were made. In 2016 walls were erected, we received some funds from European funds, but they are funds for house-setting. We can't spend it until we build a building. Here I once again invite you to visit the House of Health of Međimurje County. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23486	I thank my dear colleague Bernarda Topolko. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're moving on to Amendment of Honorary colleague Cynthia Varge, Amendment number 108. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23487	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted for technical reasons. The budget law in Article 38(3) defines that the proposals, i.e. amendments, must not be burdened by previously assumed commitments. In line with the above, it is apparent that the amendment does not comply with the legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23488	I thank Mr. Secretary. Since the applicant's representative has no amendments, he does not comply with the law. We won't vote on him. We move on to the next amendment of distinguished colleague Vedran Babic, Amendment 109. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23489	The amendment shall not be accepted for technical reasons. In particular, the Budget Act of Article 38(3) defines that the proposals, i.e. amendments, must not be on the burden of commitments already undertaken, and according to the above, it shows that the amendment does not comply with the legislation. However, fortunately in this case, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds issued an invitation on 18 July 2016 to deliver project proposals, improve cost-effectiveness and access to daily hospitals or day-to-day surgery in which the Bjelovar General Hospital as an acceptable applicant can apply for the financing of daily hospitals, i.e. one-day surgery up to a maximum amount of 50 million kuna. Also, on 18 July 2016, an invitation was made for the delivery of project proposals to improve access to emergency health care in which the General Hospital Bjelovar as an acceptable applicant can be registered and to finance what is stated here. So, unfortunately, the amendment cannot be accepted, but there is a solution in the other way how it can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23490	I thank Mr. Secretary. Dear colleague Peja Grbin, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23491	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, this is about Article 201 again. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were not here in previous situations so that he could explain his reasons so that we could not speak in detail. However, this is about the situation we have all morning during the vote. Several of your predecessors in the chair of the chairman allowed a vote in these situations after we gave an explanation regarding the respect of the international treaty. Please level practice in the way your colleagues Jandrokovic and Reiner did before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23492	So you're asking to be allowed to vote on this amendment proposal? Okay. Does the proposer want to give his esteemed colleague Babic an explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23493	I do. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll keep going on what Mr. Grbin said because I'll just remind you that for last year's budget I proposed the same amendment with the same explanation and we voted on it without a problem. But here's the minister I certainly believe you have good information about General Hospital Bjelovar. I will just remind you that the General Hospital Bjelovar has all the technical documentation, the built-up permit, the prepared tender documentation, that you will also seek to make sure that this investment is in place in Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bjelovar County for one single reason almost 6 billion increases in budget expenditure in the state budget in Bjelovar-Belgorje County has not completed any prominence. As a matter of principle, I'm asking you to allow me to put this proposal to the vote, Vice President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23494	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vedran Babic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move on to the next amendment of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, Amendment number 110. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23495	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, at the moment the preliminary results of the Commission's assessment and production opportunities at the current premises of the Immunological Institute indicate that no immunoglobulin and factor production is possible at the present location and with the existing equipment. It is therefore necessary to draw up a cost-effectiveness study on the possibility of production at a new location. It is also necessary to draw up a cost-effective study of vaccine production. Only after the completion of those activities could budget resources be allotted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23496	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23497	I'll talk to you later. So, I'm saying since I've been in this House, and for the last budget, there have been a few amendments to allocate funds to the Immunological Institute, but that was not granted, and in the end what happened, and that is that the Immunological Institute is in a blockade, and that soon threatens to bankrupt him in a few months. We all know how important the Immunological Institute is, I said yesterday during my presentation that we launched the initiative and that we supported from altruism the proposal to reduce the beach of officials and the proposal to adopt a new minimum wage law or to change. And I call once again on all the MPs present here to support our parliamentary Electoral Commission to come to the truth. As part of its failure, in a few months' time, which is the ultimate goal of certain lobbies that have been breaking up for decades, I am calling on the ruling majority to support this amendment. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23498	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are moving on to the next amendment of MP Frank Vidovic, Amendment 111. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23499	And in this case, there is a solution regarding the magnetic in Sibenik. On 18 July 2016, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds issued a call for the delivery of project proposals to improve cost-effectiveness and access to daily hospitals or day-to-day surgery under which the General Hospital of Sibenik as an acceptable applicant may apply for the financing of daily hospitals or day-to-day surgery up to a maximum amount of 50 million kuna. Therefore, there is no need to open a special capital project for a magnet at Sibenik General Hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23500	I thank the Honorable Minister. And the name of the applicant is the explanation of the imported colleague Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23501	This last of the eight amendments that I have submitted regarding the Sibenik-Knin County and the city of Sibenik, you have refused all the way to one, as I see it, so you are interested in the development of the city of Sibenik or the development of the Sibenik-Knin County. Getting a new MR would greatly improve the diagnosis of patients at the General Hospital in Sibenik. I've heard what you said in your explanation, but I've heard those arguments before, even though they had nothing to do with the EU, but with some studies that need to be done, etc. And what I am particularly interested in is that my colleague, who is sitting here now, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, submitted an almost identical amendment in 2013, particularly interested in how she will vote today. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23502	I thank my esteemed colleague Frank Vidovic for his explanation. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are moving on to the next amendment of the distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras, Amendment 112. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23503	The amendment is not accepted, and the answer is the same as it was before when we talked about the Hospital in Bjelovar or now in Sibenik. Namely, there are eu funds for which Bjelovar Hospital meets the conditions and from which it can obtain funds for what is required in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23504	I thank Mr. Secretary. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Encouraged by the conduct of a session of a peaceful vice president, I will say a few sentences, although I know it will not help, and on this side, I am sorry that, for example, the people in Bjelovar do not have the same conditions as in other county seats, and the reason is that they do not have the former Minister of the Eu Funds and regional development, now the Minister of Agriculture has decided to break the practice of the Euro Hospital Competition in order to get you across the county and essentially slowed down the whole process and the question of whether and when this is going to be realized. The difference between what was signed and what started with the realisation is that the funds were already secured, what the state was behind the project, and the question is whether the county or the city can stand behind the project and finance the whole story. What I would ask you, though a man wonders whether it makes sense to write all these amendments at all because people even say they will support as counterpart Milinovic and Mr Mesic said, so they get a chance to vote for, stick to party disciplines and refuse to vote as they say. The question arises at all whether this makes sense together, whether to write amendments at all, whether people in Bjelovar will ever have quality health care under this government, or whether they will have to come to help Dr. House from Metkovic or will have to do some other things to have quality health care. I am sorry that you do not accept this amendment and I ask you to support it in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23506	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I thank the honourable Minister, Mr Milan Kujundzic. We are moving on to amendments from the responsibility of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. Amendment number 113 of distinguished counterparts Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23507	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to implement the planned measures, taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23508	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. Reasoned colleague Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I cannot agree with you that the funds are sufficient. We all know why volunteering is extremely important and promoting the same why it is important in the Republic of Croatia. Not only because of the development of civil society as such but also because of the fact that we also need to teach young people to spend their time constructively, to return something to the community and to spread volunteering and to value it. Whether on the labour market or beyond in their professional lives and careers. The Croatian Qualifications Framework would also contribute. Unfortunately, there's not much hearing for that either. Then I just wanted to achieve this a little more significant means, and I think that the funds are a little bit more, although they are more realistic and that they can contribute more to the development of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia. We recently passed the Volunteering Act about a year or two ago. Volunteering has not yet been sufficiently developed in the Republic of Croatia. It needs to be further popularised, strengthened and institutionally and extra-institutionally, and I think that this means alone would contribute. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23510	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would really like to ask you for mutual respect and a little parliamentaryism while someone is saying that we others are silent and that we allow our colleagues to give their explanation to the end. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are moving on to the next amendment to the 114th distinguished colleague of the representative of Peđa Grbin. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23511	The amendment is not accepted since the home for adults Motovun has provided adequate means to carry out regular activities in the position of care for persons with mental impairment. It is a relatively new building of a home for adults Motovun for which new equipment was purchased and there is no reason to provide additional funds of 5 million kuna for the purchase of long-term assets, construction facilities and facilities and equipment of a million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23512	I thank the minister. Dear colleague Peja Grbin's explanation for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23513	Your Honors Minister, Your Honor. I'm afraid you haven't even read the amendment. So, this amendment did not go to the investment maintenance of an existing building at all, nor does it speak about whether the building is in good or bad condition, but it is very clear to you in the amendment that it is an institution which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, that it is an institution that cares about mentally ill persons and that it is an institution whose capacities are simply not sufficient. So, it's very clear, this is about the need to build up an existing facility and I'm looking for it and I believe that in that, my colleagues will support me in this, the funds, to expand the home that takes care of mentally ill people. Moreover, when we know that the item we propose to reduce this amendment is the item relating to expenditure on Croatian Parliament services and other unremarked operating expenses. Now watch out! It is these two items in this budget that have recorded incredible growth and we have predicted 10 million kunas more on these items for the work of the Croatian Parliament despite the declared savings. Now all colleagues sitting here, please, secure funds for mentally ill persons, reduce the funds to the Assembly, which will remain bigger after this reduction than they were in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23514	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for this explanation. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move on to amendment number 115 of the Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23515	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to implement the planned compensation measures under the Social Care Act, taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23516	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. Explanation on behalf of the club esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23517	Respect. Well, I'd like to say there's one joke that says the difference between a mortician and a politician. He says the undertakers bury dead people, and politicians live people. Our social policy is such that it actually destroys people and I therefore suggested that they increase 50% of the funds for guaranteed minimum fees. In this way all social benefits that people essentially receive would be increased by 50 percent. So if it's 800 kuna - 1200, if 2 would be 3, etc. I suggested that money be given to the poor, and the item from which to subtract money is NATO operations, the amount of 89 million kuna to drop to 0 kuna and international co-operation for NATO and the EU to reduce from 37 million kuna to 17 million kuna, that is such an administrative story. And I think that would help a lot of poor people. I ask my SDP colleagues not only to support this proposal because I am an opposition like them, it means solidarity, but only if they had done the same thing in that position, or increased aid for poor people and abolished funds for NATO operations. So, and to the HDZ gentleman, I don't even count on them, they know what their policy is to the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23518	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Moving to Amendment No. The 116th distinguished counterpart, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23519	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to implement the planned measures in line with the funds spent in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23520	Thank you, Madam Minister. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Honorable Minister can't accept that argument again. So, the funds are within the frameworks that are expected of this year, so from the current but we can't be satisfied with that. Young people are a particularly sensitive group in our society, more so that young people leave the Republic of Croatia mass and seek their happiness elsewhere. I think it is extremely important to improve policy for young people, to think of what the country should do for young people, what it should offer them, in which fields it should protect them, where it should be directed, etc., etc. I think an increase of 2 million kunas is more than symbolic. For young people, that is, for politics and for young people, we currently single out 8 million kunas. That's less than the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia spends. I don't think it's a good message for young people who are thinking about leaving the Republic of Croatia right now. I don't think it's a good message from this government about strategic policy-thinking for young people, not just youth policies, but other policies. So I think we'd just send this one good message. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23522	I thank my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, for this explanation. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Moving to Amendment No. 117. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23523	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The funds for home functions are provided at the position of additional funds and balancing for decentralised functions based on a decision on minimum financial standards, criteria and criteria for decentralised financing of homes for older and powerless in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23524	Thank you, Madam Minister. The explanation of the esteemed colleague Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23525	Dear Madam Minister, the funds are secured in that position but that is exactly the problem, these funds are simply insufficient. And that's one of the reasons why for years of a low-level framework of decentralised functions that finance the maintenance of such institutions as nursing homes, they're not in an adequate state today. Yes, Istria has provided a part of the funds to go into order but we hold that it would be consistent with the possibilities and desirable to include the state in such a thing. Because these are our fellow citizens of the Third Age of Life who have just done their job and deserve to be taken care of and made by those of us who work and create. On the other hand, what I want to highlight are problems with really large waiting lists in the home for the elderly who are subsidized. And I do, and time allows me at this point to tell me that the existing system is not fair because you have a situation that subsidized accommodations use those who could also submit their incomes a commercial service price and on the other hand you have people who are waiting for places that are filled and who really can't cover something like that from their own and their assets. So I am also taking this opportunity to suggest that you may use an asset censorship that would be approved, so that you would approve of the subsidized price of accommodation in homes for the elderly. I believe that this would reduce the ranks and make this system much fairer than it is today. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23526	I thank my esteemed colleague Boris Miletic for this explanation. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Moving to Amendment No. 118. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23527	The same situation, the amendment is not accepted because the funds for the function of the home are secured at the position of additional means of balancing for decentralised functions based on the Decision on minimum financial standards, criteria and criteria for decentralised financing of homes for older and powerless in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23528	Thank you, Madam Minister. On behalf of the applicant, the explanation of the imported colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23529	Dear Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, we are not satisfied in the IDS with the answer, namely, you yourself have said that these are minimal financial resources and we insist that these financial resources are not sufficient. In one of the previous answers you said about Motovun that it was a relatively new building, this one in Rasha was built at the time when the mine was being opened down and those poor miners who are now retired for whom we should have heard especially you in the Ministry of Social Affairs who built not only this state but all those before who used that mining wealth today do not have the basic conditions for one retirement home. The Istrian County just for the reconstruction and reconstruction of this home has raised both credit and debt, however, these funds are not enough and therefore we have given the amendment that, with the help of the state budget, the entire investment is being rounded up to create the best conditions for these pensioners. The pensioner’s home has surely been in this position since 36th requires major construction operations to meet today’s standards. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23530	I thank my esteemed colleague Tully Demetlika for this explanation. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Moving to Amendment 119. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club, please welcome Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23531	It is also a home which is decentralised, additional funds, the amendment is not accepted because additional balancing funds for decentralised functions are based on a decision on minimum financial standards, criteria and criteria for decentralised financing of homes for older and powerless people in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23532	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed colleague Giovanni Knows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23533	Dear Vice President, I thank you. Madam Minister and you and I know very well that decentralised funds are not enough because you have very modest resources and you are in your social programme. You are in your position a little less than 2 months ago, you do not wear or carry any blame, but just to inform you when you are not already your associates, namely a few years ago, the Resort Ministry has ordered that 60 protégés must immediately move out and leave the depandance building within Domenico Pergolis' home in Rovinj. Which has also caused enormous damage and a huge problem for both the protégé and the city and the county. We have reacted without delay, made the necessary documentation, now the tender is ongoing, we are not guilty, the state level has caused the problem and we are offering a solution based on which of the total needed 30 million kuna 1/3 of the required amount is being taken over by the City of Rovinj budget, 1/3 of the County and kindly we are offering that within your ministry is also taking over or finding these 10 such million kunas because I will repeat the problem has not caused either the local, nor the county level but the state level. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23534	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi, for his explanation. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're moving on to Amendment 120. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23535	The amendment is also not accepted. Since the establishment has provided adequate means to carry out irregular activities in the position of social care for persons with mental impairment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23536	Thank you, Madam Minister. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23537	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Obviously, there is some noise in communication because I do not believe that a home for older people in Motovun would therefore seek help in a way that through the amendment, additional funds are provided if it were provided within your portfolio in the draft budget itself. So this is a request that comes from the field, it's a request from people who work there and they need additional resources, and since you claim that the funds are enough then I think it's obviously some kind of forest in communication. I am still inclined to believe that the funds are missing and therefore I ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23538	I thank my esteemed colleague Boris Miletic for this explanation. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're moving on to Amendment 121. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23539	The Amadnman is not accepted. It is also about institutions that are decentralised and funds for home functions that are secured at the position of additional balancing funds for decentralised functions already mentioned decisions on minimum financial and other criteria for decentralised financing of homes in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23540	I thank the Minister. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23541	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, I would like to point out, therefore, that this is the House Alfredo Stitglic in the City of Pula, and from the moment of course it is before you, but your ministry has frozen the possibility of expanding the network I hold that this is one moment after which one form of injustice is constantly following. Why am I saying that? Because we should compare the accommodation capacity of the subsidized homes in certain cities and compare it with the number of inhabitants that we know how many countries of accommodation facilities for older people are subsidized by the main residents, so that they can compare both smaller and larger places, i.e. take into account the entire county. So, right now in Pula, there are a little more than 2,000 people on the waiting list for accommodation in this house. Therefore, these lists would certainly not be so large if these persons were able to settle accommodation in some other institutions at a commercial price. However, they are disabled and are therefore forced to wait. So I believe that citizens who work and who certainly help their parents would be very helpful if they were left alone and knew that their parents were placed in an adequate facility. I'll repeat, we're not afraid of responsibility, we're not afraid of authority, we're not afraid of work and we're not afraid of paying taxes. But I believe that one systematic analysis should be made to determine which cities are sub-optimed in terms of subsidized accommodation and which cities may have greater opportunities. And that original proposal if the property censorship was used, I'm holding that this problem might not be solved in that way, but at least they'll ease up. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23542	I thank my esteemed colleague Boris Miletic for his explanation. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Moving to Amendment 122. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23543	The amendment is not accepted. The home for adults of the Council on Sunday, Sunday, has been provided with adequate means to carry out regular activities in the position of care for persons with mental impairment, means of obtaining productive long-term assets, facilities and equipment are also provided at the point of purchase of equipment of less value in the welfare system approved during the year for all welfare institutions established by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23544	Thank you, Madam Minister. And on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23545	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to point out that this particular House for the Elderly, that is. For mentally ill adults, he was before closing. We've had that luck unlike Rovinj that you're not from the top, i.e. from the government shut down this home and evicted the protégés. And in the past period we've produced all the project documentation just for rebuilding and equipping that home. I would like to point out that last year's budget item, so 70,000 kuna was planned for 2016. For next year, the item is zero. And so we proposed an amendment to ensure at least 350,000 kunas to continue with further equipment and raising standards in that home. I therefore also request this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23546	I thank my esteemed colleague Tully Demetlik for his explanation. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I thank the honourable minister, Mrs Nadi Murganic, for these arguments. We are moving on to amendments from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. The next amendment is Amendment 123. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club. Dear Secretary of State Sanja Misevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23547	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that it has been proposed that 150 thousand kuna that were on the item of reconstruction of the Ministry of Justice's fleet be rerouted to free legal aid. However, it is from earlier commitments, i.e. a concrete 2010 lease agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23548	Thank you. Explanation on behalf of the club esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23549	Well, I'd like to say that a large number of citizens who are poor find themselves in legal troubles are a large part of them because of their performance. And what they need is free legal aid and they provide legal clinics. Unfortunately, as I am informed, there is a reduction in resources in the context of providing free legal assistance by legal clinics. And simply a large number of citizens will remain suspended. I don't know when people will call us next time for legal aid to whom we should direct them if the legal clinics are shut down, or if they run out of resources to work. I appeal to you as a representative of the Ministry of Justice, that if you can't already take those funds from the Leasing item, to make some kind of reorganisation of funds within the Ministry itself and to be re-scheduled from some other item. I appeal once again that this is a big problem because lawyers are expensive, and poor people are most often in these problems legal and I don't really understand how these people will come to legal aid if the funds for legal clinics are liquidated from the plan and programme of the Ministry of Justice. I appeal once again to all the HDZ representatives to have mercy on these people who need free legal aid, not to reject this amendment, like all other amendments, to show their heart. Because I don't think it's fair that we sit here all day and they refuse 200 amendments. What's the point of this whole debate, then, and why do we even explain these amendments if they refuse us in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23550	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move on to Amendment 124 of distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23551	Thank you very much. The amendment is denied. It is proposed, by means of the activities of the international agreements of the Council, to direct the amount of 500 thousand kuna to the activity of the strontial improvement of judicial officials and advisers. The explanation is identical to that given earlier. Therefore, it is a matter of earlier commitments, and the amendment must not go on the burden of earlier commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23552	Thank you. Reasoned colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23553	Thank you very much. And so, I can only repeat once again that this argument does not stand, that it is not true and unfortunately it is sad that you reject our amendments that are going to benefit you by explaining it with inaccuracies and I think it is unserious. The whole process of today's rejection of amendments is also unserious, the vote on amendments that are completely different. We voted on the same things in completely different ways three, four times. Otherwise, this item would mean a lot because in Croatia if there is an important problem, it is a big problem that is a lack of confidence in the judiciary. Trust in the judiciary would certainly increase the quality of the work of the judiciary, and greater quality is closely linked to the professional training of employees in the justice system. I therefore propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23554	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We move on to amendment number 125 of distinguished counterparts, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23555	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. It is proposed to reroute the amount of five million kunas from the activities of the Holy See international agreements to the selection and training activities of the trainees in the judicial bodies. The amendment is rejected with an identical explanation, therefore it is from earlier commitments and the proposed amendment must not go counter to the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23556	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Dear fellow MP Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23557	Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry you don't accept the amendment because it's coming to your advantage again. Here, as ordered, came the answer to my representative's question which I asked... where I asked him, how many trainees were admitted into the justice system during 2015 and 2016 and how dynamic their receipts are in 2017-2020. My colleagues and colleagues, I hope you've read the answer. So the answer is one big zero. Zero trainees have been admitted into the justice system. How, then, can the system of justice be developed when there are no trainees? It says 45 is planned next year, and will then depend on available funding. So here's a colleague and a colleague, let's give five million kunas to the justice system so they can hire trainees so that all people who work and retire can get adequate replacements because they won't be able to. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23558	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, for this explanation. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We move on to Amendment 126 of Honorary colleague Zdravko Ronko. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23559	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. It was proposed to reroute the amount of five million kuna from the item i.e. from the division of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia to the activity of the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia and the application of legal remedies to protect legality. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the draft budget has been drawn up on the basis of the actual requirements of the user and is in line with the necessary expenditure for employees as well as other burdens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23560	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Dear colleague Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23561	Thank you very much. When an important committee of war veterans was arrested in Oras, the war veterans' committee called for an urgent statement by the chief state attorney on the co-operation of the Croatian and BiH judicial authorities on war crimes investigations, one of them, on the reciprocity and on the handling of the documentation. And then immediately the second day in the presence of Minister Tome Medveda at a closed session full of three hours, the attorney general informed us of all relevant facts, including major personnel, material and accommodation problems. Thus, a single and unanimous conclusion has been drawn on the committee, which the Committee suggests to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to provide additional resources for material equipment and staffing of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia in its 2017 budget. But after the euphoria came down, the board president no longer thought of it, nor did he find it appropriate to deliver that conclusion to the government of the Republic of Croatia, and last week when we discussed the budget on the board, the answer was what was with that conclusion, the answer was to leave it for another time. That's why I've proposed these amendments. So five million are the outbreak, and that's for the start alone, five million to stop corruption and organised crime and five million to prosecute the committing of crimes and not only war crimes but also various other war crimes that have been committed by many. Among them are some of our poorest MPs who will now vote against.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23562	Thank you. I'd like to ask the esteemed MPs. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. [[I don't mean Pernar.]] The vote is over. The amendment didn't get the right majority. The next amendment is also from Zdravko Ronka 127 in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23563	Thank you very much. The subject-matter amendment shall not be accepted. It has been proposed that five million kunas be rerouted to corruption and organised crime through the administration and management activities of the Ministry of State Assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23564	I'm asking for peace in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23565	The amendment is therefore not accepted by reason of the fact that the draft budget has been drawn up on the basis of the actual requests made by the users and is in line with the necessary expenditure for the employees and the costs incurred by the budgetary user.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23566	Is the Amendment Proposer willing to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23567	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that these are very serious and important amendments whatever they look like to you because if DORH and USHOK were, say, materially and humanely trained to shake out everything that this representative mentioned earlier attacked these institutions so that DORH and USKOK could here, Mr. Maric Minister Maric could triple the budget immediately. And what I said along the way could be taken by the President's office, so I think it would be us if nothing else were to be grateful and a salmon, if nothing else. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to vote nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23568	Thank you. I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. The amendment didn't get the right majority. Representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23569	Excuse me. I'd like a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes. So this is the last amendment to the SDP Representatives Club. No amendments have been accepted. So, please pause for the vote agreement. Thank you very much, President. A meeting at 16.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23570	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,15 HOURS]] The SDP representative club has requested a break. In their name, Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23571	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, 132 amendments were submitted to this budget. The government has not accepted a single one, and these amendments require a little more money for hospitals, for schools, for gyms in schools, for young people, for education, for poor people, for hungry people, for mental patients, for national minorities. Nothing that matters to the government. The government, however, has made sure that enough funds are provided for the Office of the President of the Republic, to buy 4 tonnes of salmon and to arrange and increase Plenkovic's office. That's important. These poor, this education, this, that's all to the government no matter. I cannot believe that no amendment could be accepted, that is, that everyone is so stupid and so unnecessary that the government cannot accept them. At the beginning of our mandate, both HDZ and MOST promised here, and you Parliament Speakers in their inaugural speech that this would be a different parliament than those so far, and that the government would accept quality over-proposal proposals, that you would not refuse them just because they were opposition. Here's how you do it. I'm not surprised at HDZ. Not even our entire club is surprised at HDZ. We HDZ know very well, they've never acted differently. MOST promised us something else, and what did he offer us? He offered us a farce. Here's my colleague Bulj. He's making an amendment. He's looking for a school in Sinj. The government has even, not only refused the opposition, but also rejected the amendment of members of the ruling majority. But it could have been solved differently by MOST coming to Plenkovic and saying, "Listen, Plenkovic, Prime Minister, either the sonic school gets that 5 million or we're going out of the coalition. That's how you handle it. And not a farce, not a farce that's being ordered here, but the MOSTs would want me poor, but the HDZ wouldn't. We will also vote after this on the Law of Obligations and Rights of Officials. Same thing. As MOST, he wants to stop the government from paying officials. So why didn't you go to Plenkovic and say, "We're getting out of the coalition if you don't do it." That would be business. Not here to drive people crazy. You know, it's not, people aren't stupid enough to buy your stories. It's not just the amendments. You're such a majority who can't talk in this House about very serious things. For example. Secretary of State Gluncic, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, look, the problem isn't small. We have a minister who prescribes scientific papers, we have his secretary of state who insults national minorities and children with developmental difficulties. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're such a parliamentary majority. The only amendment actually, the only change you have made so far, is the amendment to the Statute of Croatian Waters. That's what you changed right away. The Statute of Croatian Waters so that MOST's relatives, friends, godfathers can be employed. Today, we read in the paper that even a colleague of the Grmoys has one of those. I don't know if it's true or not, I guess we'll find out more these days. I wish it wasn't true, I wish the papers were lying and it was all made up. I can't believe that MOST's only concern is how people get their eyes dirty that they take care of the citizens and that they're different, and they're actually worse. But Zebar has also said openly since his existence: "We don't care about opposition proposals at all." So, of the 132 amendments, you haven't accepted any. The SDP of course cannot vote for such a budget, we do not believe that all these amendments were so unquality that you had to refuse them. We just can't believe it. We can only conclude that you are the authority that doesn't care at all to comply with any proposal by the opposition or any topic the opposition puts on the agenda. But you won't discourage us with that. We will continue, and colleague Sabina Glasovac, and colleagues second on the board, will insist that the topic of Glunčić will also be discussed until the end and Croatia will lead to discussions until the end and everything you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23572	Thank you, Agent Stazic. I'd just like to warn you of one thing. From the 5 minutes you have had at your disposal, you may have spent 2 minutes on what your topic was, and that is your relationship with your vote on the budget within the SDP. You spent at least two and a half minutes on some other clubs. I didn't know you needed to negotiate with the Most and HDZ because you requested a break on behalf of the SDP. I let it go this time. Next time I'll have to interrupt. I'm just pre-announcer. Now we move on to the amendment to the general part of business income. 64 — Income from assets. 132. Amendment by agent Ivan Lovrinović. Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23573	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23574	Just for a warning. Part of the amendment will eventually come. I'd like an esteemed representative to be patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23575	Thank you very much again. Therefore, the proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government since this is the only amendment to the general part of the revenue, i.e. the general part of the budget, several sentences and arguments why. Among other things, the honourable representative raised the issue on the very parent board, the Committee on Finance and the Budget. So, there are several reasons, the first is in line with the positive legal regulations, so lex specialis is the CNB Act, articles 55 to 57 that regulate how and how general and special reserves are formed, or how and how they are determined, calculated and paid the difference between income and expenditure in the state budget. At the same time, such an amendment would be contrary to our commitments on the international agenda, or contrary to the individual articles and provisions of the EU accession treaty or the functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European Central Bank. And what's also important to say, so here if we talk about profit or gain, then we're actually talking and thinking about unrealised gains that have been achieved due to exchange rate differences by management of course of that balance. Otherwise, the general reserves of the CNB are formed and formed and they are an integral part of the CNB balance sheet in order to actually eliminate or have an opposite for different types of risk, primarily currency but also credit, interest rate and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23576	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23577	Dear Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. I don't have enough time to answer this question in quality and therefore I invite you to a parliamentary debate at a plenary session on this issue. This was the only amendment like you said that provided a real chance to raise the budget's revenues by 10 billion kuna, it's real money, it's not a money mission, it's not a printing. I really can't believe today is turning down something that's real. If you had put this as the first item of the agenda today, the debate would be over in half an hour, everything would be covered by these 10 billion kunas and there would be still money left. However, Mr. Minister, I remind you that the amendments to the Law on the CNB in 2008 and 2013 have just been written by the CNB, so this has been determined by what you're saying, which is exactly what she wrote. The problem is that this House can't decide on state matters, on its own money, this is the money held by the CNB that's owned by the state, you're on behalf of the state its representative, this means in translation, and I'm sorry to say that giving up the government from relying on its money but telling us next year we're going to be in charge of 10 billion kuna, which we're going to pay 4% a year, and that's about 400 million kuna just interest. For these interest rates alone, we could solve the problem of the Immunological Institute, we could pay off severance payments to the police, we could raise the DORH to a level that could work quality. I simply cannot believe that the money that belongs to us, to the citizens, to the state, will not be touched without the interests of the National Bank and the banks that this country still wants to hold in a debt position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23578	Thank you. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. Just wait, please. You can approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the State budget requires most of all MPs, 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 86 for, 4 abstentions and 37 against the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being put to the vote on granting consent, the proposals for the financial plans for 2017 and the 2018 and 2019 projection. First, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2017 and Projection for 2018 and 2019. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 87 for,... I'd like to ask the Parliamentarians, the esteemed MPs and the MPs to be patient. And please, please, yes, please order in the assembly until the end of the vote. With 87 votes for, 6 abstentions and 34 against, a decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2017 and Projection for 2018 and 2019 was taken. Secondly, the Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives and Pedja Grbin and the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU, submitted amendments to the draft financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2017 and the projection for 2018 and 2019. I would like the proposal's representative to make a statement on the amendments tabled by Minister Oleg Butkovic, 128 amendments in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives and MPs of the amendment are not accepted by reason that the current investment on the state road D102 through the programme Batterment 2010 and the work that is under way, and the recovery of the Baška Draga 2 and 3 bridges on the state road DC102, locations between the City of Krk and Baska and the rehabilitation of the coastal drain system on the state road DC102 location Kijac, the location between the Krk Bridge and the City of Krk, whose contracting is ongoing, points to the activities of the Croatian roads in order to increase the flow and safety of traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23581	Thank you. Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23582	I thank the Minister for his explanation. It is therefore a state road which has a growing burden from year to year, and therefore it is necessary to invest in its revitalisation and improvement of the state of transport above all safety. But given your argument that you signed an investment contract, then you don't have to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23583	Thank you. The amendment is withdrawn and we will not vote on it. The 129th Amendment was submitted by a representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23584	Thank you very much. And this amendment is not accepted by reason of the talks between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia were initiated at technical level. The same decision to invest in the state road DC510 of Umag, A9 to the border station Kaštel border of the Republic of Slovenia, is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23585	Does the promoter want to take the floor? Here's a representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23586	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I can agree in part with your argument. However, you and I both know that Slovenia has been saying for more than 20 years that the fast road between the Italian border will lead to the Croatian border. And that doesn't happen all the time. For all we see, that road will at best stop at Isola more or less where it is now. And this road we are looking for will be necessary for all of us to reach an agreement with Slovenia for at least the following 5, 6, 7 years, especially if we take into account the speed Slovenia has in building fast roads in its area when these roads are heading towards Croatia of course. So I ask you, given that today, despite all the investments made there over the last ten years and the investments were really significant there, there are still huge crowds, it is about the border crossing of Kaštel to be absolutely clear. This is also a security risk and, in addition, for a large number of tourists, this border crossing with the Republic of Croatia, which is why I think this means should be provided and, of course, negotiations with Slovenia on road construction continue. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23587	Thank you. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. I find that the proposed amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. The 130th Amendment came in a row from the HNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23588	Thank you very much. That amendment is not accepted. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the procedure for the implementation of the road skating recovery projects in the Republic of Croatia since 23 December 2014 has set the Croatian Roads for operators, investors for the realisation of the road skating project in the Republic of Croatia. Croatian roads indicated the initial planned amount for 2016 for the implementation of the road skating projects in the Republic of Croatia from 9 million kuna to 19 million kuna in 2016 and in 2017 Croatian roads planned for the same purpose of 11 million kuna. It is important to stress that Croatian roads other than these 30 million kunas, which are planned on the basis of that decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2016 and 2017, are also planned for the rehabilitation of the slopes on state roads under the Investment Maintenance Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23589	Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23590	Thank you. I'm already talking about the rinks and I really don't know what to say anymore. These money that you've predicted is possibly enough behind one county and we know that skates exist in more than 5.6 counties and that's a huge problem. Only in Krapina-Zagorska and Varazdin County are the damages of the rink estimated at 100 million, so these 19 are not very comforting. And please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23591	I'd like to thank the Pooh MPs. I ask MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that the proposed amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2017 and the projection for 2018 and 2019. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 89 for, 3 abstentions and 34 against the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2017 and projection for 2018 and 2019. Third, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 87 votes for, 3 abstentions and 33 against a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2017 and the projection for 2018 and 2019. Fourthly, the Club of HNS, HSU, submitted an amendment to the proposal of the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2017 and the projection for 2018 and 2019. I would like the representative of Finance Minister Zdravko Maric to declare the amendment to Amendment 131.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian government does not accept this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a Decision on the procedure for the implementation of the road skating recovery project in the Republic of Croatia since 23 December 2014 for the purpose of the implementation of the skating recovery project due to an exceptional, exceptional situation at the time, and Croatian roads are responsible for the implementation of the project. In accordance with the Sustainable Waste Management Act, the Fund manages the system of specific categories of waste in such a way as to charge fees for the management of specific categories of waste from payment obligations and the same investment in the collection and use of specific categories of waste to meet the established objectives of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, the revenue of the fund from the base of the specific categories of waste is strictly intended, and the fund cannot finance the recovery of the slide from those revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23594	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? MP Puh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23595	Well, here's the fund had an item that also had projections for 2017 and 2018, and I don't think it's fair that this item is abolished by the fact that the problem still exists and has not been solved and I ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23596	Thank you. I ask MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that the proposed amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2017 and the projections for 2018 and 2019. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 92 for, 3 abstentions and 29 against a decision on granting consent to the Fund for Environmental Protection, Energy Efficiency for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. I'd like to ask Agent Pernar if he decides to vote to take his seat. If that's your card, fine. No, please. Thank you. We're moving on. Fifthly, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 86 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 31 against a decision to give consent to the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan and to resuscitate banks for 2017 and the 2018 and 2019 projections. Sixth, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 87 for, 3 abstentions and 35 votes against the decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised, together with the representatives of the motions, to edit the text of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and to decide on the financial plans of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of the Banks, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance before their publication in the National Journal. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23597	Mr. President, I'm not going to ask for a break, but I'd just like to warn you that this conclusion is being adopted in order to include the amendment in the budget text. Given that this text of the budget has not been changed in relation to the one proposed by the Government, at no time is such a conclusion completely excessive, not to say unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23598	I'd like to thank you for the counsel's instructions to Mr. Grbino. We'll proceed with the procedure. I am putting this proposal to the vote. The vote is over. I find that with 88 votes for, 20 abstentions and no votes against the conclusion reached in the text as proposed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23599	And now we move on to the following law, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, second reading, P.Z. Number 58. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading, amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on the Environment and Social Policy, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on the Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports at a meeting of those committees. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the club, the esteemed Ivan Lovrinović. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next is on behalf of the Club of Representatives probably the Living Wall, not even written here or some similar party, the esteemed Ivan Pernar. Here you go. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23600	Mr Vice President, I suggest that Article 234 be applied. Rules of Procedure and limit the debate to 15 minutes on behalf of each club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23601	I don't think there's any need for any registered clubs, except fellow Pernar no one else will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23602	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that in such small hours we are discussing a serious matter such as budget execution and I don't understand why these topics don't come to the agenda at a normal time, for example. In the morning. Why, instead of 9:30 in the morning, they come at, say, 9.30 in the evening. And be careful why I'm saying this! Because it is possible for us to take a position in this debate if the chairman or representative of the Ministry of Finance has not given us a detailed explanation. So we put ad hoc into the situation that he doesn't even say or give his report, and he expects us to support his proposal and then he's angry if we discuss it. Imagine that I am the Minister of Finance, that I come to the Parliament and say, "I have nothing to say, and I am still angry at an MP, "What do you have to say now, what you want from me, let me go home." Mr. Maric, this is a serious home, this is a serious place. You're the Minister of Finance, you need to keep us informed of the implementation of the budget. And why is that? Because from budget to budget deficits essentially rises and I don't understand how you line up budgets when you start saying it's going to be less income than it's going to be expenditure. It's called in the people's account without the innkeepers. Mr. Maric, you made an account last year without a tavern, and as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Maric, you plan on doing the same thing this year. And how will that account without the innkeeper ultimately end? How? He'll end up pushing our country into debt slavery. Is Mr. Maric interested? No, I don't. He has other concerns, as people think about how he'll survive, how he'll survive...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23603	Comrade Pernar, what you're saying has nothing to do with this issue of budget implementation. Excuse me. Go back to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23604	I'll be back on the subject. Excuse me. So, until Mr. Maric has explained his law to us, he asks us to take a stand or to argue in the back conditions. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the furry conditions. If there are all twenty of us here, I think that's a lot of conditions. Because this is a serious issue of the implementation of the state budget that MPs should talk about, should express their views and should express their views. Because ultimately, their opinion depends on the passability of the assessment of you or the budget law that you are proposing. However, why do you think that the debate may not matter, and why do you have no need to explain what you are proposing? Well, the answer is simple. They say Serbs are as simple as beans. Well, because you know you have enough hands and whatever you wrote in there would have gone without any debate at the vote. And just to point out that problem, I feel like I have a duty today to talk about the way you treat this high house. In my opinion, it's a shame there's nothing to say to the motionary's representative. Imagine, every man in our country is obliged to do his job. Every man. So do you. And what's going on? You come here and say, "I have nothing to explain." Is that how he treats the Parliament? If he is, and we see that he is, we can only conclude that he is tragic and that he is actually redeculizing this tall body and our role as a representative is belittled. I'm sorry for your approach to this act in such an unserious way. This indifference in the presentation of this act is the result of your general view of the economy, in general of the state budget and thus of the implementation of the state budget. What's most important in the whole thing, which is addressing MPs, explaining what you expect them to vote for, Mr. Maric, you didn't do today. You, Mr. Maric, didn't do it today, and you should have, because your role as legislator is to explain to us MPs why we should vote for a particular proposal, say motives, opinions, attitudes and ultimately analysis? Because this implementation of the budget is essentially one analysis. Instead of an analysis, instead of a report, instead of a number of concrete, instead of an argument, instead of a face-to-face or, let's say, unfavorable facts for you here you come to us as some kind of salesman you put some papers on, in fact some other people put those papers that you probably prepared as a proposing on a table without a single word, expecting neither of us to have anything to say on your words. However, in your silence, to your ignoring this institution I have decided to speak, and speak loudly because our people must know in what way the laws are passed, how this body works. So the law is passed by hand, comes to the Parliament as a commercial passenger, and at 10:00 a.m., some law is proposed. I'll have Mrs. Ambrusec later, thank you. And the law is proposed, and then when that finish is expected, that key part that you're proposing to explain, we're coming across what? On what, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP? What did we encounter at Minister Maric's? Persuasive arguments? The indisputable facts? What have we ladies and gentlemen heard from our minister today? Shut up! And in fact his silence speaks more than all his words could say about the state budget. Because the state budget, ladies and gentlemen, is disastrous. It's the bottom of the bottom, double bottom, it's my people, it's a pierced ship, it's the broken pockets, it's ladies and gentlemen would say the Dalmatians a black hole. It's a state, it's the state of the ladies and gentlemen of our budget. And that way. [[Intruder Reiner: I see you're having a great time or coming back...]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, you can't forbid me to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23605	I can forbid you if I want but I'm just warning you that you have to talk about the subject rather than about No, no, it's not at all, and the point is that you don't know what you're talking about, the subject is not a budget at all, it's the law on the implementation of the state budget. [[Intruder Pernar: Well the topic is about the budget, I'm talking about the state of the budget, Mr.]] Well, that's two different things completely. [[Invader Pernar: The Law on Budget Implementation of this...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23606	But the budget de facto is what the budget law says de jure, meaning by criticising the budget de facto is being criticised, the law on the implementation of the budget is being decruised and these two laws, or the budget, and this law is linked to each other because the budget comes from the Law on the implementation of the budget. And for that reason, I think it's important to speak on this subject. I know that many would like this law not to be spoken of, that many would like it to pass without debate or that it should not be discussed at all. But why are the citizens paying us? Do the citizens pay us for us to pass in the fast lane the law that you propose and which you have not granted or explained to us? Do you, Mr. Maric, expect it from us? How can Mr. Maric take a positive view of something when you consider it irrelevant at all to inform us about it. Imagine that I came to this House, to propose some law, as you did tonight at 10 p.m., and to simply ask if you could say as a representative of the legislator, that you say I have nothing to say, that I have nothing to say, that I have nothing to say, I am considered by voters and MPs to be inconclusive. But in an inversion of roles, because this is an inversion of roles, you who approach your business in an unserious way, you try to create the impression that you are the one who is serious and we who want to hear your reasoning of the law in question, we who want to discuss it, we turn out to be inconclusive. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the Bill on the National Budget Bill is adopted and many other laws are passed, without debate. Or what? The bottom line of the story is that the debate is de jure, so on paper, was the agenda according to this point of the State Budget Implementation Act? Yeah, there's a point on the agenda. Did we discuss it? Even if no one debated, even if the proposing representative didn't even explain what he was proposing, we have a situation where the debate was conducted. Ladies and gentlemen, if I hadn't heard from you about this, if I hadn't heard from you, you wouldn't have discussed it, and we would have been kicking through that second round, and then what would have happened? Then what would happen, Mr. Maric? On Thursday, you would simply win the vote and have enough hands and these people would vote, and be careful what is the greatest absurd? These people who would vote are people who even if they were here at the debate couldn't actually hear what they're voting for. Isn't that absurd? I don't know what to call it, which they don't even know what they're voting on because I'm objectively doubting that most of the MPs have read this proposal that you've sent us and have participated in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23607	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23608	He'd ask for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23609	I won't take a break, I won't let you take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23610	What if I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23611	On behalf of whom are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23612	On behalf of the Living Wall Club to warn of the shameful work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23613	Comrade Pernar, this is how you said earlier that the problem is that it's being debated at 11 a.m. but you were distracted from your mind that 5 minutes earlier, you said that you deliberately dragged us all by the nose for your entertainment. That's what you said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23614	Mr. Rules of Procedure lets me ask for a break. If you break the Rules of Procedure, that's your business.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23615	So here, I'll give you a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23616	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23617	Here you go. It's 11:00 P.M. Are you fellow Pernar ready to go. Here you go. My colleague Pernar is here to see you. There's talk from here when you're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23619	I saw that there were people who were reported talking about this law. Among them is Mr. Ivan Lovrinovic, professor at the Faculty of Economics, former Dean. Mr. Lovrinovic reported for discussion for a reason, and that reason was that he participated in it. But he had no idea that today almost midnight, I would say the exact time of 23.30 minutes on the agenda would come this law. For this reason, he could neither participate in any of this, nor was he denied something he was essentially entitled to. And I thought it was important for him and for the other people who applied for the debate, who lost their right to debate not because they were lazy, but because they didn't know that this point would come to the agenda today. If Mr. Lovrinović had known that tonight this would come on the agenda, he would be here today, he would not have let it skip. And for that reason, I felt it necessary to point out one by one the devastating practice that legal proposals come at half the night at the deaf hour of the night, ladies and gentlemen. They say the enemy never sleeps, so until when do we have to be awake, until when? You say Mr. Pernar's working time is 9:30, yes, and imagine this situation, from 9:30 in the morning means Saturday at 9.30 this debate will last until midnight, at 9.30 on Saturday. What is so urgent, Mr. Maric, in this law that at midnight we bring him in and we discuss him at midnight? Is the State Budget Act something to be passed on Saturday at midnight in the Parliament? So how come such parliamentary practice, ladies and gentlemen? I speak for a reason, I mention Saturday those who read the Bible Book of Exodus 20 know that Saturday is a day they should not work on. But on Saturday nights at this hour, to call a session of the Parliament and start discussions, so who in their right mind will be discussing this time of law, who is normal? Well, of course, you went from assuming that no one normal would answer for the debate, but your guess was wrong. There are people who are ready for the truth and for the public to be informed, to debate even the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, which was sent by the Government of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 8 December 2016. But this proposal is a fake, but I'll tell you why it's fake. Because it says here, for its representatives who will participate in the work of the Parliament and its bodies, the government has appointed Dr Zdravko Marić as finance minister. Why do I say fake? Although it was determined whether Mr. Maric participated in this debate, was he the one who explained on behalf of the Government because it says here that on behalf of the Government he would be determined to present this law to us, bill number 58. Did Mr. Maric suggest it to us ladies and gentlemen? I didn't hear him. Mr. Maras is also a no-brainer, gentlemen dear, if only he hadn't heard or heard that bill from any of you. And how are you gonna get in front of your voters tomorrow and say I've been knowingly doing my job, how? Mrs. Amrusec doesn't. And for this reason it is important, excuse me, Mrs Amrusec, I apologize, Mrs Strenja-Linić, for this reason it is important to conduct discussions and point to such things. Mr. Maric, if you don't mind starting a debate about the law, here's the time. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23620	Thank you very much. I have to draw attention to the fact that we are here at half past 12, so I quote your words, because "you dragged us by the nose and enjoyed it". That's what you said yourself. That's what you said yourself, so I have to do it again because that's why we're discussing this law right now. We could have discussed it a few hours ago if it wasn't so much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23621	Mr. Vice President, please there are 20 MPs here, we could all go home. We're here on our own, no one's pulling us by our noses. [[Intruder Reiner: Of course.]] Maybe the only one who has to run the session, maybe someone's forcing you to be here, but we're all 20 MPs here willingly and we're taking part in the debate. That's what I'm telling you because messages come to me all the time. People are watching this. I want people to know that I'm here on my own and that I'm going to be in the debate for the rest of the debate and then I'm going home.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23622	Thank you very much. I... just quoted a colleague of Pernar. He answered the word of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. The moment you gave me your word I honestly admit I wasn't ready to talk. Here I am now ready, so I will take the opportunity to present the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. This is an act governing revenues, receipts and expenditures, expenditure of the State budget for 2017 and their implementation. The scope of government borrowing and guarantees, public debt management and financial and non-financial assets, economic incentive measures, the use of own and dedicated revenues and receipts of budgetary users, rights and obligations of beneficiaries of budgetary resources and other issues related to the implementation of the budget. This act defines, among other things, a budgetary base which has not changed since the previous years and continues to amount to 3,326 kuna. It is used to calculate the fees set out in specific rules such as child support, maternity support for part of additional maternity leave, payment of permanent rights to Croatian defenders and others. It also provides for a foreign and domestic debt that can be implemented up to a total amount of 33.7 billion kuna. The current repayment of the general government debt is €27.3 billion. The borrowing of out-of- budget users is €2.5 billion, and the current principal payments are € 2.8 billion. The new financial guarantees for 2017 are 5.6 billion kuna and the guarantee stock is 280 million kuna. For 2017, the law provides for budget resources of €200 million. An important part of the State Budget Implementation Act 2017 refers to measures for units of local and regional or regional self-government. This is the topic we discussed during the debate on tax reform and the package of all tax laws, so I will just point out here that in the state budget the projected funds of €325 million will be compensated and transferred to local, regional and regional self-government units at monthly level by the 15th month for the previous month in terms of the difference between the revenues achieved in that month and the same month of the previous year. In addition to the above aid or compensation, the budget will also pay regular aid of €694.8 million on the basis of the income tax return criteria according to the annual application of municipalities, cities and counties according to the level of development. Aid to municipalities and cities with the status of assisted area at the level of profit tax achieved in 2015 if they are entitled to this aid in 2014. Aid to local self-government units with assisted area status in the amount of aid planned for the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, provided that they were entitled to this aid in 2014. Aid to local and regional self-government units with assisted area status in such a way that this unit assistance is divided by the opposite proportional index of development, and transitional assistance to municipalities and cities with the status of the area of special state care of the mountain-mounted area. It is also prescribed that the total cap on the borrowing of all units of local, regional or regional self-government is up to 3 per cent of total operating income of all units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23624	Thank you very much. The individual debate will now be held by a respected representative, Milorad Batinic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I am holding in my hands the final proposal for a law on the implementation of the State budget. He says the state budget of the Republic of Croatia consists of a general section that accounts for income and expenditure and a financing account and is the trick of the whole story. In this, my actual conflict with you as an architect or representative of the architects of this law. Namely, in the account of financing what's going on? In the financing account, you book the loans or liabilities you make on the loans. You don't account for your due loans in budget expenditure. So you run double accounting in some way. That's the bookkeeping, Mr. Maric. You have two items with incomes and expenses. In one income is non-creditary, and in the other are credit revenues. In one section are non-credit expenditures, and in the other section are credit-based expenditures. And why is this detail important? This is because, in this way, the total expenditure of the budget is being falsified or faked. False, Mr. Maric. Because due loans by their nature represent State expenditure and State expenditure by its nature should be the expenditure of the budget, but you have, by this law, separated income and expenditure or the account of income and expenditure from the financing accounts. And then you say, so to you, it takes 35 billion kuna loans to serve the government next year, and you're going to say, the deficit is, what, 7, 8, 6 billion kuna. Why? Because you don't count on expenses. It's a trick of the whole story. And that's where you wanted to push us into what time? At 23.43. Why? Because you knew it would be discussed. You knew that topic would be drawn. In this way, you are actually bringing a complete society into a state of ignorance, deep ignorance of real government obligations because society thinks that its liabilities or budget deficits are just the amount of deficits, and it does not know that the huge budget deficit is actually the money that the state does not have, which is to be paid out for the loan. And it's these very creditors who blackmail every government so that yours can privatise state property. Our country is not privatized because the desire of this government to put state property into office is because the creditors who give you the money condition. And here's why? Because the creditors who are funding this in your hole, this black hole I called, they know you have nowhere to go. So every bank that's going to finance the budget knows that the state will never have one kuna to pay back. Mr. Maric, the state doesn't have one kuna to repay those loans. And why isn't there? So because there's a deficit in the income and expenditure account, which means that you don't have any money for moments of this current expenditure, let alone for previously taken loans or to repay those debts. And that's when the central question is asked. If it's clear to everyone, then why are the banks giving us credit? Why do banks finance our budget if they know we don't have any way to get back from these loans? Mr. Maric, this is a question that every child in elementary school will know how to answer, and therefore this bill of law that you have given us represents a single splash in the face, Mr. Maric, because this bill essentially does not solve anything. By passing this law, you will continue with your 35 billion-dollar black hole that you are silent about, but you will tell us about the 300 million interest savings. So, when you save something, you represent it as a success, and a 35 billion hole that you have no place to deal with, you don't mention it. This has to be mentioned by Ivan Pernar, what time? At 23.46. At 23.46 on Saturday, Pernar Ivan caught you, Mr. Maric, with his fingers in a jam. Yes, Mr. Maric, with your fingers in the jam because you have a 35-billion-dollar hole that you have nowhere to cover or you don't know where to cover it from. I mean, you know, how? By taking out a loan. That's your solution. We're going to borrow, we're going to be in charge. And what will be the consequences, what will lenders condition to give you these loans, will you tell the Croatian citizen? In explaining this law, you should have told Croatian citizens what would be the consequences of its adoption. The first consequence is to cover up the real situation or the real budget deficit. In my view, the deficit should be shown as a share, as a share, Mr Maric, i.e. the ratio of expenditure and revenue of the budget, but you show it as a share of GDP, this deficit as in the budget, while hiding this second important and key item of the financing account that I am talking about. And that's how our society is actually kept in the dark, and unfortunately if I hadn't started this debate about your law that you're proposing to us, society wouldn't even know that you're running some kind of double accounting with the aim of covering up the real situation in the government register. And the state of the State Treasury is one general disaster, is one horror and horror, and that is the state of the state as it is in the State Treasury, Mr. Maric, so is the situation in the pockets of Croatian citizens. Like you have a hole, and they have a hole, but unlike you, they can't run double accounting. They can't say: Liabilities for loans I'll run on a special account so my shortfall this month will make you 500 kuna even though it's a real hole of 5,500 kuna. Citizens can't and because they can't do it, they, starting from one to the other, think that neither the state does it or that the state puts all its expenditures on one side as they do. For citizens, there is no difference between the expenditures that go on loans and expenditures that go on directs and expenditures that go on food. These are all the expenses they have to settle, all the expenses they have to account for together. But you, what are you doing? You, for example, put expenditures based on picturesque food and clothing and clothing on one side, and you put this bill on the other side of the loan return. Yes, Mr. Maric, you know that very well, but the citizens didn't know that. And that's why I used these ten minutes to warn you about it. It's sad how you push the law into the procedure at midnight, Saturday. They'll start out on a Sunday. You're in session until Sunday for what? Just so this bill of law you're putting us through without debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23626	Thank you very much. The next one is the final one on behalf of the live wall advocates' club again, the esteemed Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23627	He said Mr. Maras himself that if he didn't replicate it would mean I agree. Ladies and gentlemen... I think you said today, tonight, here says Grmoya you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You, I'm talking about how he's covering up a 35 billion-dollar black hole to run double accounting, no one's replicating it. The exhibitor's representative is silent, and I'm going to tell you those monetaryists who know everything and keep their mouth shut about what's different from all of us? The difference is that both Varoufakis and Vujčić and Marić come with backpacks to the session and I always wear a backpack. We're a class of monetaryist, we're dealing with money regulation. And the vast majority of people who don't deal with money regulation and MPs don't wear backpacks and they don't realize the importance of what's being said here. Mr. Maric had a lot of knowledge, much more knowledge to prepare a more quality law, a law that would give citizens insight into the real state of state finances. Because from this law, if you read it, you're going to see a bunch of articles here, a bunch of items, and basically, you're going to say it says a lot and you're not saying anything. Imagine ladies and gentlemen saying not purposely spent funds the recipient of the funds is obliged to return to the budget. So how will he repay the funds he no longer has, which he has already spent? Watch this, watch what this says here, these all the ladies and gentlemen's articles, these articles, here's what gets me ladies and gentlemen who watch this over TV, the man who sits on my right here, that's it. On my right, he throws me the word "You're a lunatic." Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way in which people who should be a professional service in the Assembly treat MPs. You will say that Mr. Maric did not say, one day you will say that this bill is such that it gives people real insight into the state of state finances. You see, you can be in charge of Mr. Minister with the consent of the Government, with the consent of the Government. Check this out, the current repayments of the general government debt shown in the financing account are €27 billion. Do you include interest in these obligations? Why am I asking? It says because it can be carried out up to 33.6 billion. It's possible it's because these 27 billion black holes were then referred only to the principal. We don't know that. You're giving financial guarantees for $5.6 billion, okay, you're giving these guarantees to Mr. Maric and I'm asking you where you're going to vouch for, with what money? It's like I'm saying I guarantee or Mr. Maras guarantees 5 billion kuna that someone will repay the loan and he doesn't have that 5 billion kuna. Is that Mr. Maric's financial responsibility to you? In my opinion, this proposal of yours is misery and misery, this is a shame that allows you to borrow our state and to raise loans without the consent of the Croatian Parliament and without the knowledge of Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens can't decide that, they can't vote on it, no one asks them anything, not even our parliamentary representatives are asking questions, but that's what you decide with agreement. Who? Government. As Mr. Bunjac has said, you're making 20 decisions that four million you're pushing us to break into. And that's the democracy that you're proposing to us and what you're defending. I'm sorry there's no replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23628	Thank you very much. There is a replica, there is a colleague Pernar you will of course not bother with nonsense such as Rules of Procedure etc. But there's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23629	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, this is the law and you've read it well, which defines how to implement what we've been through in the previous debate. I agree with you in one piece that says that it empowers the Government to implement the budget that is responsible for us in the SDP that allows, it does not allow, but on the basis of it next year we will have to be in charge of more than 30 billion kuna to finance the existing commitments and to finance almost 7 billion deficits that will be planned in the 2017 budget. And that's why I think it's basically a budget debate that's the key that defines all the budgets of boredom, which defines whether or not public money is being spent. But I agree with you that this House should discuss the state's duties. But here's to initiating the topic as a parliamentary representative to discuss here how we are in charge, whether it was right and I believe that a lot of people will have their own view of whether, how to borrow, in what way, under what conditions, here I know that Mr. Lovrinović has a nonstop theory that sometimes borders with science fiction and I don't think they're very practical. He would cut the interest to half and save five billion kuna. I would like to hear it here in the debate at the Croatian Parliament how Mr. Lovrinović is going to do it. Initiate the topic and as a representative nominate it into this House and then we'll discuss it. This is now what you've been talking about, I'm letting Minister Maric and the Government of the Republic of Croatia put us in charge, and you're right, we're not going to discuss this. Perhaps we should discuss, perhaps it is not bad for the Croatian public to hear once and discuss how we are in charge, where, under what conditions, why it was entered into certain arrangements etc. So this isn't exactly what the hell you're saying here, and it's totally what a man would say. There are real arguments that might be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23630	The Honorable Agent Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23631	Dear colleague Maras, that this debate is not without the devil and there is a reason why it was pushed at this time and at this time. And I wouldn't be surprised if my colleague Maric or whoever else added another item to the agenda now and then when I look for a debate on the agenda points they propose, they'll say people heard on TV that a man behind his back was talking, you're crazy, the sense is said on a phonogram. So I'm the crazy one who argues with you at midnight, and not the crazy one who proposes such an important law at midnight. But what exactly is this about? They consider this law irrelevant, Mr. Maras. They think for them this is just some technical law. But the fact that 360 thousand citizens have blocked accounts at the amount of 60 billion kuna, is that also a technical thing for Mr. Maric? Are those just numbers for him? Are those just numbers, Mr. Maric? You say 27 billion kuna, so do you know how many zeroes behind number 27, how many zeroes, how many zeros, Mr. Maric? And without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament, without anyone's knowledge, you will be raising those loans. Is this the way Mr. Maric reports to us in this way that we will not in this law say that you do not have to ask the Croatian Parliament permission to raise those loans. And those goddamn loans are the cause of all the evil that has hit our country at midnight, you're suggesting this to us for a vote. At midnight, you're giving us this for discussion. This is a great shame you're working from the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23632	Thank you very much. Finally respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23633	Here, I'll finish it very briefly, just a few sentences. So, without the intention of entering this debate and of de-polemising and saying anything, so this topic that we are now hearing in the debate on the final draft of the State Budget Act, I am sorry that among other things, some former ministers do not know that this bill of financing was made at 9.30 this morning. The financing account is an integral part of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, and the financing account makes it very clear what the need for funding is in terms of financing deficits and reprogrammes, or repayment of all debts and any maturity which will be as an obligation of the Republic of Croatia next year. That was taken out at 9.30 this morning, so yesterday at 9.30 in particular. And this everything you say can be accepted in a way that is your right to call me and to throw me out personally, the Ministry of Finance and the Government mockery that something wants to frame someone with the Croatian public, the Croatian Parliament and I don't know who. I'm telling you responsibly that you were here at 9.30 and if you had looked at that state budget then you would have seen these figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23634	The replica of the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23635	Mr. Maric, so why are we here now for weeks we knew that we had a session of the Parliament on Saturday and that Saturday in itself is extraordinary, but you pulled this session of the Parliament by Sunday. Why? Why didn't we have this debate if nothing else on business day? That's the central question. Why on Sunday at midnight other young people go out Saturday night, Mr. Maric comes out, some are literally on their way to the buses from the country, and some are going out. And I have to be wise with you about you covering up a real deficit in a government budget of not 8 billion but a minimum of 35 billion, a question of how much interest. When Mr. Maric is planning to publish, when Mr. Maric is planning to publish a list of creditors, a list of those to whom our country is obliged because these are the people who are the real owners of our country and they are the real decision makers, not us here in the Parliament. And it is a pity that I am the only one involved in this debate with you. But you wouldn't be involved if I hadn't made you do it in some way. It's unfortunate that none of my colleagues here in the Parliament have a single word to say except for Mr. Maras one replica, they have nothing to say. And that's why we're doing this, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23636	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here's Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23637	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm just gonna make sure it's my last. ... Well, then he can use it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In any case, I will say that we are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament together with my associates and I have listened to the whole debate on the state budget and the Law on the implementation of the state budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2017. It is your right as a parliamentary representative to direct amongst other things and such words that I want to conceal something here. If you had looked at the reasoning of the budget and the state budget itself, you would see that everything is shown as prescribed by the Budget Law, which was also voted by the Croatian Parliament all in accordance with the law and all in accordance with the rules and regulations. And we've been sitting here for 14.5 hours and now at the end of that debate I repeat to you once again that since the beginning of the debate you've been taking part in, then you'd be honoring me at the end of the debate and these messages that you're reading now, of course, you'd realize that you were wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23638	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The session will continue on Monday 12 December at 11pm with a point of the 3rd edition of the agenda. I wish you all a pleasant rest of the week. Session interrupted at 00:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-10-0.u23639	The next item is the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, second reading, P.Z. Number 58. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 86 votes for, 4 abstentions and 35 against the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. We're continuing the plenary session. Representative Hajdash Doncic.
