ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7198	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking you to take your place. To elect a distinguished representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7199	Dear President of the Parliament, on behalf of the SDP Club, I request a 10-minute recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7200	My colleagues and colleagues, please be quiet so my colleague Stazic can say what he wants to say. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7201	So we're looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club for 10 minutes so that we can talk about non-application of European law because of the current business necessity of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7202	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HDZ Club is looking for a break because we have one big question, where the money for rural development on the road from Brussels to Zagreb was rerouted? So on behalf of the club, we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7204	Thank you very much. Dear, who is the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja or the esteemed representative Marija Ilic?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7205	I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSU club and the independent list of Stipe Petrina and it is a letter from the employees of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to Prime Minister Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7206	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7207	Thank you very much, President. So on this alarming subject, she would be happy to give her view of the situation as part of a producer on the ground. Thank you very much. So on the subject of the rural development program and the warning by the lady... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7208	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Yeah. Honorable representative of the Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7209	On behalf of the HSS Club, the HDS on the implementation of the rural development programme, measure 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7210	Thank you very much. So I'll see you at 9.50. Thank you. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] I see there's been some changes. On behalf of the SDP club, then, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7212	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club has requested this break due to damages the Republic of Croatia is threatening due to non-working and riots visible in the ruling coalition. Every day we witness fights, plantings, interferences in other people's vaults, throwing fogs as just announced by fellow Shucker and so forth. What we unfortunately don't see is doing our duty and caring for public interest. Such behaviour of the ruling began to take a toll on the Croatian economy, it began to harm Croatia. One such damage will come today. The deadline for the implementation and implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council today expires. 2014/40. This way when I say the number doesn't mean anything, but when I tell you what this is about, I hope that at least some of you colleagues from the ruling coalition will be clear where the problem is. It is a directive that should introduce a new way of preventing and restricting the use of tobacco products. First of all, this directive may be familiar to you with those new pictures that should appear on the pack. So today, the deadline for the implementation of this Directive expires. From today on, new products cannot be placed on the market. Only products manufactured to date can be placed on the market. And now where's the problem? First of all, the problem arises due to the fact that the non-implementation of European law in the national legal order entails compensation for damages or penalties imposed by the Court at the request of the European Commission, which is measured in millions and sometimes in tens of millions of euros. So your unhappiness and disorder will lead to Croatia being punished. But that's not the only problem. Unlike many EU Member States, Croatia has developed a tobacco industry. This tobacco industry isn't just tobacco factories. This tobacco industry is also our tobacco producers, especially in Slavonia, especially in Virovitica-Podravska County. These producers are in a very awkward situation that due to the lack of implementing rules in the Republic of Croatia they will no longer be able to produce a new product that can be placed on the Croatian market. Which means for them, it's very clear. Especially if you know that British American Tobacco has already begun moving part of its production range to Serbia. Gentlemen, gather around and start working. What you are doing is causing direct damage to the Republic of Croatia, to the interests of the Republic of Croatia and to producers operating in the area of the Republic of Croatia. This isn't about you not having time to prepare and implement the laws. Minister Nakic took over the bill at the moment the office was taken over. The bill was sent to Brussels and was confirmed by the European Commission on compliance. The bill passed a consultation with an interested public. For two months now, the bill has been squatting in government drawers as the minister visits Croatia, abolishs hospitals, introduces additional health insurance at an increased price and does not do his job that will cause the Republic of Croatia to suffer direct and indirect damage. Instead of worrying about your government's dissatisfaction, instead of taking care of your colleagues sitting in the government today who have put their private interest ahead of the public you will now talk about a colleague of Jakovina, you will attack him, you will claim that he has violated the law and you will not bear in mind the damage you are doing to the Republic of Croatia. And good for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7213	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7214	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At the end of last month, our agriculture was hit by an elemental large-scale disaster. However, knowledge of irregularities in the tender for rural development for measure 4.1 and 4.2, which was warned by the European Commission 10 days ago about Croatian agriculture, for this government, but also by the Croatian state, could have unspeakable consequences. In fact, the efforts of the former minister are fully revealed, too bad he is not here, Mr. Jakovina, to channel EU funds towards certain entities while the real farmers remain suspended on the other hand. This has been officially warned by the European Commission about the competitions created by former Minister Jakovina in early 2015. It is high time for colleagues and colleagues to discuss this threat of national interest in the Croatian institutions responsible for the implementation of the EU competition. It is important to note that irregularities in EU funds are severely punished. Legal entities are criminally responsible for fraud by adapting the conditions of competition to individuals by the competent authorities often end up suspending funds from a particular fund. The main remarks of the European Commission concern the artificial creation of conditions for obtaining European funds for projects approved at the time of former Minister Jakovina. It is also said that such projects are unacceptable for the EU. This is closely linked to the issue of related companies that are then competing to obtain European funds. Minister Jakovina's service approved such projects. I remind you that the disputed tenders ended in mid-April 2015. Already in July 2015, the former minister makes a decision contrary to the European Commission's opinion on the increase in funding for this competition and wants to further damage all those who have not created specific criteria and who have not been able to realise their quality projects because half of the EU's money by 7 years wants to spend on only one competition. For the European Commission, this decision is also controversial. Therefore, Mr. Representative Jakovina, just like his former boss Milanovic, will have to answer some questions with a lot of illogicality. First, why did you increase the alocation from 360 to 861.8 million kuna to the European Commission's position after the completion of the tender? I'll answer. So the little OPGs get what they swear when the first 21 on the ranking list took 370 million. Secondly, why you changed the rights of games after the competition in such a way that users in the joint project can be associated with societies and related in blood.? Third, why did you publish the ranking before the election so that the economies went into investment and thus entered the new cost by counting on them to live in the rule of law? Any decision taken by this Government will be very complex and with far-reaching consequences, especially for honest farmers who have been deceived by the publication of investments, would they not be more competitive as soon as possible at the time as possible with a price-supply of questionable products from imports? I am now asking a question to all of us colleagues and colleagues, whether it is a matter of elemental ignorance, sentencing or a great betrayal of national interests, with the intended destruction of domestic agricultural production by the EU's intentional mini-realisation of projects because it is unthinkable that in July 2015, former Prime Minister Milanovic, together with former Minister Jakovina, visited the user who reported the projects, which the commission has now considered controversial in its memo. This visit was followed by the media and on that occasion, former Prime Minister Milanovic told his host, "That's how it's done!" What's going on, Mr. Milanovic? Is that how the Croatian village is destroyed? Is that how Croatian agriculture is destroyed? Is this how EU taxpayers' funds are spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSU Club, Stipa Petrina will speak to the distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7216	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Namely, employees of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute wrote to Prime Minister Oreshković and our club and complained about the behaviour of V.d. in the letter. The director of HZMO who stands in the letter has no competence for that function. Since time doesn't allow me to read it entirely, I'm only going to single out the essence of the letter. "Dear Prime Minister Oreshkovic! It is possible that this is not the most appropriate way to describe the situation in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but we feel the impotence and the obvious hint of system failure if everything goes the way it started. Since the early 90s HZMO has changed a whole series of directors and executives and along with the whole series of rises and downs I HZMO has constantly gone down the hill. We always hoped it couldn't be worse, but unfortunately it can. But with the current choice V.D. We only touched the headmaster's bottom after all. We understand that the vote for power and functions is enormous and that mandates are shared by key and thus the HZMO is assigned to the hidden wing of HSP, but is it so impossible that the Patriot coalition and HDZ and SDP both have no better frames from now on installed. We did not expect either the best economist or the best lawyer or the best expert in any other area, or the installation and selection of V.D. The director at the level is an article from the News Bar either believe it or not. Mr. Bulaja's right ended in the fourth decade of life in Osijek, so two years ago and until then he worked as an archive worker and later as head of cleaning and porters at HZMO but what he did and when he finished colleges would not be disputed that he should not have a job experience in management posts. At the request of the Minister of Labour, he was transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and from there did not progress according to the position of V.D. Director of HZMO without formal training, without working experience at the leading posts of these profiles appointed v.d. HZMO and more than one third of the budget of the Republic of Croatia have been entrusted to the Director. We understand that there is an American dream, but the way Mr. Bulaya runs HZMO is the American dream in a Balkan way. We all know that the Patriot coalition has far better candidates for this place, which they themselves seem desperate to us now for the election of directors. But we also predict the outcome of the competition for the position of director. The outcome will be the following as we can and assume that the appointed director who has no formal terms will, since he was only two years ago and has never worked in the management post. The Minister of Labour will not choose anyone, and will re-propose Mr. Bulaya as acting official and this will happen until Ivo Bulaja grows up and acquires the conditions. On Thursday, the government replaced the Director of the Centre for Arts and Deputy Director with a telephone session, and in place V.D. Deputy appointed by Dr. Kakarigi, and his brother Robert was appointed spokeswoman of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. You can tell yourself the prime minister that the situation in the pension system is not good, and the people who run it are below any level of expertise. In HZMO, he stores a memory of all the leading jobs at all levels and the rooting of the hearers. It's done with threats, psychological blackmail, intimidation by a new V.D. The director, but also his associates. What is currently being done in HZMO is the introduction of an alternative so that lower technical equipment can take over jobs of more complexity. This is totally contrary to the Law on State and Public Servants and strictly contrary to the Strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Administration Reform In the campaign [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Unfortunately the letter is far more and more content than... [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7217	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the next representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7218	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, not only on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST but also on behalf of agricultural producers on the ground, it is my duty to talk about this very serious topic as well. So what happens back a few days is just what farmers have actually been doing for the past half of the year and repeated over and over again on the ground, saying, warning. Unfortunately, however, there was no one who should have heard them. So the numbers are inexorable. The fact is that we have devastated the village, that we have driven the young, that we have ruined our domestic food production. For me, personally, it's something that's inadmissible, and in the end, it's my motive for politics. I'm going to be honest with you, I'm extremely glad because just a few days ago in this High House is very actively talking about the problem of agriculture. I personally consider agriculture the most important branch of the Croatian economy and the very branch that can help save the economy. So if soon we all don't open our eyes together and put all our forces into saving the village, I'm afraid we're being followed by the future of a people who is completely dependent on importing non-quality, poor food. However, I will now return to Mrs. Bogman's audit report, which was clear on page 19, found that the surveillance had been activated because they had serious doubts about the creation of artificial conditions in measure 4. They had the same owners, same addresses, same contact. All projects were completely complemented, and the required support corresponded to maximum amounts. And I also remind you that the first tender was announced before the European Commission approved a rural programme in which the amount of support was increased from 500 million to 1.23 billion kuna, a total of 50% of the available amount by 2020. Well, gentlemen, I'm asking you if it's the same picture that's been going on for 20 years. It is entirely guilty of industrialising a village that is opposed to the very tradition of the Croatian state. I personally think that this is the moment where we should end up with the benefits, because these weren't the only probabilities that were happening on the ground. It is thanks to these benefits that we have decimated the village, we have strengthened some, and some of them cannot be the bearers of production in Croatia. I'll read just one more number, and that's the number of slaughtered cows in Croatia back a few years. So in 2009, we had a total of 250,000 cows. However, by systematic slaughter, we have come into a situation where we have about 150,000 cows today. If we continue this way for 4 or 5 years in Croatia, there will be no cow. I note, if you don't know that, the most important branch of agriculture is cattle farming. If we continue with this kind of policy, unfortunately, we're going to have a breakdown. I would also like to mention that I have also warned the mayor of the municipality on several occasions about problems with support manipulations. Unfortunately, however, there was no echo. For these very reasons, I would like to draw the attention of all of you MPs and the necessity of agricultural audits, land audits, audits in support payments, and here is the revision of the rural development programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7219	Thank you very much. First, I pray that when a colleague or colleague tells us to shut up and listen to what they're saying. And now the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7220	Exactly, Mr President, Article 238 of the 6th indent, when a representative, by his conduct, deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. In fact, a representative must protect general interests, not his own. From what I heard yesterday on "Open" show, Mrs. Rose's parents are agricultural producers and she is here attacking former Minister Jakovina to protect her personal and personal interest. It's an important deviation from the rules of conduct in this House, it's something inadmissible! And if we have to, we're gonna raise all the voluntary contributions here to help her parents because they didn't get past the criteria for the money she was counting on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7221	Comrade Stazic, what you have now done you are aware that conscious abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7222	What you've done to allow this is abuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7223	Don't take me with you again!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7224	I will! I will!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7225	I forbid it and take away your word, and next time I will take away your permanent word and throw you out of the hall if you continue to behave like this! You cannot terrorize the entire Parliament in this way. I beg you to leave the hall! I'm asking you to leave the hall! Here you go, colleague Bulj. He's the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7226	Mr. President, the violation of Article 232. If the speaker is away from the topic, which in this case has happened, it is a shame that a person who deals with agriculture and has 300 cattle and who is fighting favors regardless of where he is in a situation where he might influence and does not want and publicly warns people, it is embarrassing that Mr. Stazic is such a person who produces and tries to make her and her family call in this shameful, degutant way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7227	I gave the sentence to Mr. Stazic, so it was done. Here you go, colleague Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7228	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I thank you for your quick reaction. Also, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 238 Mr. Stazić was demeaning the mention of the Croatian Parliament's representative to a very low and primitive one I would dare say the way. Thank you for your warning, Mr. Stazić has had to apologize to the Croatian institutions several times already in private life in front of the Croatian institutions for his statements and it is regrettable that today he is using the position of the parliamentary representative and the privilege that has been given to him because he can in this way insult a representative in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you again, President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7229	Okay. The next word will now be taken on behalf of the HSS and HDS club, distinguished representative Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7230	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, in our first statement at a stop requested by the SDP club, we heard that it was sought because of the possible damage this government might do. And here today, on behalf of the HSS and HDS club, I'm talking about the damage the government has done with its work. We used to say that she didn't work much, and when she worked better she didn't. That's how rural development measures are done in the Rural Development Programme. I'm saying it with full rights because on behalf of the HSS all the time since the adoption of the Rural Development Programme, I've been pointing to problems that will happen by having contact with people who deal with agriculture, with people like my colleague Vukovac just said that they live, with people who need to talk about it here. We said in a statement there on November 4th why Milanovic kept Jakovina doing a dirty job with European money. We were wondering why Milanovic and Jakovina continue their muddy work with the launch of new competitions three days before the election? We watched that funny show that was in "The Fruits of the Country" when the former director of the paying agency was a guest, so it was that series "Crazy, Confused, Normal" an extremely good humorous series but this was way out of line with that show. And then, be careful, it was interesting to hear what Mr. Pezo said, then he said let's be honest I'd like you to next time invite someone from the competent bodies my advice to the minister so ask him all these questions about the Rural Development Program. So, already in the government's bodies, in state bodies at the time, it was evident that he was muddling, settling and guessing. And the bargaining began not only in the opening of tenders that were not even in line with the programme but began with the adoption of the Rural Development Programme and the common agricultural policy. By then, the intention was seen that the former government’s policy was aimed at large systems and that it was not intended and interested to preserve the family’s agricultural economies. So let's remember that the amendments we asked him to enter the O.P.G. Agricultural Definition Act, that he wasn't in there. And it's no wonder this is happening. But we can't just blame former Minister Jakovina here, no, he was the executioner. A fellow coat of arms had just spoken of private interests in front of public interests. And I'm going to ask what my colleague Križanić said earlier, so can this be called a private interest? A powerful entrepreneur who made Milanovic a helicopter reach Osijek's title on a single portal and this picture. 3 July 2015 Today, he threatens us as the first great shame, and secondly, he threatens us with great damage, and thirdly, we will likely have in the long run as the unseen consequences have already been said here. And I ask you to take very seriously the situation in agriculture, to take very seriously the difficulties that people face and to take responsibility for who they are and here is the responsibility of repeating the policy of the former government, the policy of the former government, which knowingly, deliberately, systematically destroyed the Croatian village by hitting large and thus questioning competitions. I don't know if it's a good thing what happened, it's not good because it's a shame for Croatia, but it goes on the back of the former government, it has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u7231	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here's what we used up this first part of it. Before we move to the agenda points, I'd like to ask you to agree on a way to work. So first of all, we're going to continue, of course, on the agenda, as announced at 12 o'clock we're going to vote, actually it seems we only have one point, maybe we finish this one, and we're going to have two points eventually, but I'm afraid there's only one point to vote on. Next week, since it's Thursday's body we wouldn't be working on, but we're gonna start working and we're gonna work all that week behind it. So we'll start on Monday when the session and Parliament Day is celebrated with the Parliament Day and continue on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Here's how we all know how to schedule our jobs. Here we would now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.B.50. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. Are we gonna listen to this, or is it Friday, so you don't want to work anymore? In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and by representative Davor Penić and the SDP Representatives' Club. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, then, dear Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Miro Skrgatic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10182	Dear Mr. President, the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament are before us in this session of two laws. This first is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. What about this law? He's from the EU package. It goes into emergency procedure for the reason it needs to be brought into line with the EU acquis. Otherwise, the activity is interesting, it is a line of transport, so the connection of our islands to the coast, the interconnection of the island, and I hold that the two aspects from which to observe this law are the following: one is the administrative one that we will briefly explain here, the other is the one that concerns absolutely all of our inhabitants who are on the islands, who have certain problems in operation. But thanks to line transport, thanks to all these measures that have been in place for years, so thanks to I'd say to our Jadrolinia and some other operators who are related to this regulation, I'd say they have and are allowed normal functioning, normal approach to the coast, normal functioning between islands, and that's what in some way a strong argument is to give them absolute opportunity not to think about leaving our islands but to stay there, to live, to work. And, of course, through our ministry, we must ensure a high level of this service through this shipowner or other shipowners who will come forward in future for concession competitions, i.e. to carry out this activity. This draft bill also harmonizes what I said in the introduction to the EU acquis. When we also signed a pre-accession agreement and the 5th Act on the accession of the European Union, we also made a commitment by 31.12.This year to prepare all conditions for the next period, so over the next half of the year, to carry out public procurement processes and to receive concessions so that shipowners who are already doing this job can and can also implement it in the coming years. This law aims to enable a clearer and more precise selection process for shipowners, which, of course, requires one of the two EU directives. Thus, the basis of public tenders opened for all shipowners in the area of European economic space must therefore enable a competition. I must say here openly that our shipowner, therefore who has done these tasks crucially, should not be significantly compromised by this possibility of opening up the entire business space for the simple reason that the fleet is teamed up in such a way that he is likely to continue to carry out this work for many years ahead. The law lays down that transport services on state-owned county, inter-oural and local lines are services of general economic interest. Why are we saying that? So general economic interests, absolutely good association of our islands with the mainland and interconnections so as to be uninterruptedly enabled transfer and goods and services and of course people and especially during the tourist season. In order to carry out public transport with a public service obligation, the shipowner is also paid compensation for the provision of public service, and we are today specifically talking about a total of 52 lines. Of these 52 lines, we can safely say that 44 are non-profitable and in some ways consumes them and enables the shipowner to mean profitablely to carry out this segment of transport. And 8 lines are fully profitable of which shipowners are obliged to pay concession fees to the RS budget. For you, for information at the annual level of the Republic of Croatia, it amounts to 270 million kuna for subsidies for this form of transport. And on the other hand, for these profitable lines somewhere around 5 million kuna goes into the state budget. The law regulates the system of preferential transport more legally and precisely, so we have certain categories of residents and certain services of legal and other persons who have privileged transport and through this act has been fully regulated and this segment is in a way binding us to define, monitor and report this part of the preferential transport in a better and more concrete way. I have already said why the need for urgent adoption, as has been said perhaps in these some and previous discussions, would be good to absolutely avoid possible damages because we are under a serious obligation to conduct these competitions by the end of the year and award concessions. And, of course, by this means we allow the smooth functioning of the liner transport. The time sequence, the entry into force of the Law fully in line with the EU acquis and state aid, is so called. ... the package, the European Union, the development and approval of the support programme for 44 non-profit lines which I have mentioned and these 8 which will enter the system of profitable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The finance ministry will grant approval for 44 lines within 60 days and for two lines that, with more than 300 thousand passengers in two consecutive years, will be approved by the European Commission. I've already told you that we have a serious job in organising a public tender for the award of these concessions, and contracts will also be concluded for each of the individual lines. In order for everything to work on time and quality about it runs care and agency that is competent and I will mention these 8 lines that are actually profitable that is Valbiska-Merag and vice versa, Brestova-Poroizna and vice versa, Prism-Zigljen and vice versa, Stinica-Mišnjak vice versa, Split-Supetar vice versa. So we have three more lines that are going to get into this segment of profitable. From this year on, it will be Biograd-Tkon, Dominice-Orebić and Split-Stari Grad, vice versa. We also discussed this topic with representatives of the Island Alliance who raised one particular question at the last one, I would say the debate we had in Zadar when the President of the Republic hosted. The main issue was the reduction of the budget item in our resolution ministry. So now these funds are somewhere on the annual level of around 270 million kuna and in the last year they were 310 million. So a question was asked about the difference between the funds. And we've given a concrete interpretation that it's actually a difference in fuel prices. So with these few cycles of fuel burning, that difference allows us to reduce the total budget item, but that what has been shown is afraid not to disrupt the number of lines, the quality of lines and the frequency of lines. So here our position is completely concrete and clear about the frequency of the lines and their total quantity and quality that they should provide, there should be no significant deviations. And I believe that through this public service, all our users who are islanders and we know this story about demographic bad processes, we hope that through this public service we will provide and realize the assumptions that these people stay where they are, to see finally the future for themselves, our families but also for doing business on a regular basis. Of course, you should not specifically say that this entire segment is in the function of Croatian tourism so that I believe that this defeat that we have and which moment can already be seen in several recent years is certainly thanks to these support that goes from the budget through a resorient ministry that enables a greater, better quality and better service that it does not only apply to our residents but also to our guests who come in the summer, tourist season in the Republic to spend their vacation here. Here I wouldn't want to be any longer. Of course, if there are any questions we will gladly give interpretations, answers to everything that appears through this parliamentary debate and all of you here I thank you for your attention. Respect!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10183	Thank you very much. So now we're going to see if the committee's reporters want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'll open the discussion then. And the first one will be on behalf of the SDP Club, I'm sorry, my mistake was one replica, forgive my fellow Glasovac, one replica of the distinguished representative Mira Bulja for the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10184	Dear Assistant Minister! You said Jadrolini was a strategic firm. However, according to the European directive signed by the agreement, obviously this strategic firm of national interest, which has clearly 60 million kunas of annual traffic, which is received obviously with this directive on the market will not have, as it has so far had, the possibility of being what it has been because of what you have said, because of the opening of the market and that it is exclusively a Croatian obligation that we must fulfil because we have signed this in advance of an accession, agreement on joining the EU. This is just another piece of evidence that we have entered, unpreparedly entered the EU, and what we have signed, we have not protected the national company, and let us remember that we all voted unanimously to join the EU in this way. Also, if you can answer me, I will have many more questions, so I will answer the public debate whether, if you know that Kup... is from a public tender paid 5 million euros, so Jadrolinija is very important, islands are very important because they move out and move out. It is exclusively in our interest to protect Jadrolini as a strategic national company and also to save our people from living on these islands. In this way and I will prove through a public debate that in the former period where friends, directors of the former government were employed and so, I will prove that there was no protection of the national company, so please can you answer but answer publicly and loudly whether the interest of Jadrolinia is at stake here and means also the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10185	Thank you. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10186	Here's a thank you for the question of the distinguished Mr. Assembly Attorney. Just for a little while. So we hold that the strategic interests of our shipmen will not be compromised. There will be no threat to the interests of our shipmen for the simple reason I said in the introduction. Our company is designed in such a way and has such a fleet that it is difficult for someone now in the public competition process and we do not have such cases within the EU to compete and one such company that is fully established by local crews, ships and its equipment is practically ready to do this job alone. It's hard to say right now here that we want to say that it's a monopoly, it's not a monopoly, but we had to accept through the whole package of accession negotiations and that commitment. So the obligation remains in principle to go to the open market but it's hard to expect someone to come in. As far as this issue of yours is concerned about this purchase of this ship, we don't know anything about it being obtained without a public tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10187	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10188	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As is known, the activity of public liner transport in line coastal maritime transport is an activity of public interest for the Republic of Croatia. The Act amending and supplementing the Law to comply with the acquis provides for the application of Regulation (EC) No 3577/92. on the application of the principle of freedom to provide services in maritime transport within Member States, i.e. maritime cabotage and EU Regulation No 117/2010. in connection with the rights of passengers in maritime transport. As we have already heard in the introduction of the proposal, the Treaty of Accession of the EU Republic of Croatia provides that all public transport contracts on state lines signed before joining the EU shall be valid until 31 December 2016 and existing contracts shall be concluded on that deadline. Which means that these amendments to the law are necessary and this is one of these, I dare say rare laws that justify urgency, the adoption of this law justifies the urgency of the procedure because it really is about removing obstacles that could be put before the Republic of Croatia and in connection with the commitments made towards the EU unless we adopt this law in time and create all preconditions for calling such tenders. At the meeting of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure held on 5 May, the debate also discussed the situation and the importance of Jadrolinia. Equally, the question was raised and asked whether this Croatian company would be competitive with European shipowners and was highlighted in the debate on the parent board by the need to keep this largest Croatian shipman with excellent references because he has so far shown a high level of security because in his 60-year voyage, there has actually been no handouts. The reminder works, so Jadrolinija was founded in 1947 in Rijeka as an heir to Adriatic sailing, part of Dubrovnik sailing and the rest of the Zetska navigation. From the draft to the present day, its main task is to connect the island to the mainland on the Croatian side of the Adriatic with a sustainable business aimed at ensuring the integration of Croatian islands and coasts to the benefit of the island population and tourism of the Republic of Croatia. For islanders, of course, it ultimately means a better and safer journey throughout the year. Just for the sake of safer travel throughout the year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should, according to our proposal and according to our assessment, amend three articles of the new Law on transport in line with coastal transport, as their failure to adopt these amendments could lead to the collapse of Jadrolinia as the most important maritime entity in the Republic of Croatia. In 2015, the fleet of 49 ships was transported by 10 million 878 thousand 858 passengers and 2 million and 691 thousand and 90 vehicles making up 58,187 thousand trips, i.e. a million 51 thousand 116 miles, and spent 41 million 811 thousand 60 litres of fuel. It is fuel that makes up almost 15% of the total cost of Jadrolinija or in nominal amount that is 143 million kuna. Analyzing the world market price of oil that has increased from $28 to $44 since the beginning of the year. The first blow by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to financial liquidity and maintaining the same standard of concession lines is in the proposed budget, but also in the adopted budget for 2016, the reduction of subsidies from 321 million 351 thousand 535 kuna to 270 million kuna. The second blow could be precisely a proposal to amend the Line Transport Act if three articles do not change. So it's on the trail of the three amendments the SDP club has proposed. First, in Article 17. where documentation should be specified and situations should be avoided that a company that does not have a ship but only a pre-contract or a purchase contract that can but does not have to be realised on a particular line. Furthermore, an overview of the capacity and technical conditions of a particular ship is important for safety reasons and for protection against possible speculative practices. The second proposal is to be amended in Article 25 where it is actually necessary to identify the exact 50% relationship within the line and 30% on the six-month level of real needs to increase transport capacity. In this way, we could prevent the Agency from making discretionary decisions without any parameters and reasonableness studies, thereby preventing any occurrence of the gray zone. The third proposal is also interventions in Article 37 where the possibility of public liner transport should be precisely defined without public service obligation, thus preventing unfair competition from being granted to shipowners providing public service. The SDP advocates' club, as I have already said, will submit these three amendments, taking care of the existence of Jadrolinija, which has made several revolutionary steps in recent years. Except that according to the revised data in 2015, the company increased profits before tax to 10 million 864 thousand 330.81 kuna had two particularly good projects that we consider important for the prominent, which is the construction of four ships in our shipyards, and the e-Jadrolinia project, which enables the sale of tickets for all lines through the official website and the opening of prepaid accounts, or the use of Jadrolini to go card. Therefore, in adopting, or position, the government's approach to our proposed amendments will depend on our support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10189	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10190	Comrade Glasovac, in the end you said that he was revolutionary last year of moves in Jadrolinia, I would only agree with you that this company is of national interest and that on the European market, i.e. The international market is possible that companies that can lower prices will come, meaning transport, and can have a terrible impact on our company as it happened in the past, so let's say this is agriculture, for example when they imported lamb from New Zealand and there were 12 kunas in the market, and the real price is 10 euros. It's so possible that I can destroy it. However, when you speak of a revolutionary one, do you know that the President of Jadrolinia during your government appointed the head of the Jadrolini society even though he did not meet the conditions of the competition. Do you know that 40 new executives and executives and directors without experience have been employed, and you've been ignored when you're inside this company and the company? Do you know that a catamaran was purchased without a tender for 5 million euros? Are you familiar with these things? It's something revolutionary. This is a company that is strategic and this EU directive was absolutely trialous before we joined the EU, because this is essentially one of the kinds of national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10191	Thank you. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10192	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Bull, I don't think what you've stated is in any way a particular topic of these amendments and the addition of the law. I've made it very clear that the thesis, the thesis that Jadrolini is ours, in some ways the ship's jewel and the fact I've shown you that through several parameters. Why did I say they made certain steps? I believe you understand, I think I agree with you that you should protect Jadrolini as a Croatian shipowner. However, it is quite clear to you that, in fact, European legislation does not allow any regulation that would put Jadrolini in any privileged position. And I believe that Jadrolinia, with the experience it has, with human and other capacities that it has especially with this security aspect, will be competitive and will be able to compete with large and other European companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10193	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the honourable representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10194	I would like to thank Mr. President, deputy deputy minister with associate and associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on line and occasional coastal transport. We will also support it for the reasons that it is in line with the 1992 EU Directive and, on the other hand, because on 31 December of this year, we are running out of a transitional period in which liners carrying out maritime transport could only be shipowners registered in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, for this reason, it is necessary to adopt this law and its amendments in order to carry out the tender during this year, and then fully comply with the Directive of 1 January 2017. Before I say a few words about the law itself, I would like to say that the original law that we are changing today was passed in May 2006. On behalf of the Government, I then proposed this Law on Line and Coastal Maritime Transport and the debate on the law lasted for three days. Today, when we in this assembly are even thinking about the fact that in some law that is governed by the Republic of Croatia in an economic sense, it seems almost unimaginable to us. Today in the Croatian Parliament we can only talk for 3 days if the topic is partisans and Ustasha, but if the topic that touches the economic development of Croatia, the topic that helps in this case survive and live on Croatian islands is such that one thought and debate is almost incomprehensible to us. This law, i.e. the original law, is, for Croatian islanders almost the most important law, it is more important than our law lex specialis or the Island Act because it essentially determines the position and life on Croatian islands. In fact, quality transport connection is a assumption of the economic development of Croatian islands, and this quality of maritime integration can be measured by the quality of ships connecting Croatian islands by the frequency of the number of lines connecting Croatian islands and perhaps primarily by the price of that maritime traffic. When the law was passed in 2006 before parliamentary MPs, around the same doubt was raised today. In fact, it was said in the first row by colleagues from the SDP that the law that was passed in 2006 and that instead of the monopoly that had had Jadrolini on the road connection between the Croatian islands, this market approach was introduced through the implementation of a public tender for the selection of shipowners that would connect Croatia's islands. At that time, it was said, in 2006, that the law that we are changing today will practically sink the Adriatic and that numerous European shipowners will come to Croatia through the implementation of the public tender, in the first place, it was claimed that Italian or Greek shipmen would take part in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. That's what it was about then. I say, that debate lasted long, everyone was worried about the fate of Jadrolinia. I argued then, and today I claim that the law that we are changing and the public tender that was then established is only to strengthen the position of the national shipowner and that the basis of this law will make Jadrolini much stronger than it was until the law itself was implemented. That during that period of 10 years, Jadrolinija had the largest growth of its fleet, primarily through the construction of ships in Croatian shipyards. In those 10 years, Jadrolini restored the fleet from 18 new ships. Of these 12 new constructions that were made in Croatian shipyards and purchases of 6 more ships or 4 ships and 2 catamarans that were practically also new construction or very young ships, perhaps one or two years old. In fact, what I would like to say further, according to the existing law and before the amendments to this law, the foreign shipowner could come to the Croatian market in a very simple way, which is to establish his branch office in Croatia and to register in Rijeka, Split, Zadar or Dubrovnik and then report through his office to competitions that were, for example, opened in 2013 or 2008, 2009. However, no shipowner on the side has made the possibility that the law gave him and registered in Croatia his own company and then, with his ship he would have registered in the Croatian Register of Ships and in the Port Captain, he could report to the competition. So, it didn't happen as I'm sure even now that such a situation won't happen. Why? It won't happen because it's built on the existing lines of Jadrolini and has a top-notch, young fleet that's just been built and hit by a single line. So it is very difficult to expect that a shipowner who can report from a European economic space will meet those conditions that are today met by a national shipowner. Jadrolini. So I say it's very difficult to expect. On the other hand, the regulation that follows this law and allows the public tender to be carried out is written, I would say, according to the national shipowner or Croatian shipowners. In what way? So the competition that will be held during this year so that we can choose new boaters for the transport of Croatian islands. One of the important assumptions that someone would win this contest is the experience of carrying out maritime traffic over the past period. So the very large number of points that will put the national shipowner in a privileged position is the fact that it was founded 60 years ago, that it connects the Croatian islands in national navigation and that over 60 years it has not had one, it has not had a single hararium that would cause the death, sinking of the ship or that there has been any other disaster on the Croatian islands. Therefore, it is one restriction that very, which puts national shipmen and not only Jadrolini but other shipmen in a privileged position. Another provision that also defines and guards would say national shipmen and I would say Croatian sailors is the obligation for crews to speak Croatian language and that crews or sailors and shipmen who perform that line have signed national collective agreement with the Maritime Union, which I would also say guards and shipowners and water and care, takes care of Croatian sailors who will sail on the Croatian Adriatic and connect Croatian islands. And another very important thing I want to say is that in 2010, when we concluded negotiations for Croatia's entry into full EU membership, then we clearly concluded a chapter of traffic and in this chapter we were able to achieve a transitional period of 7 years which stands out here at the end of this year when we had just provided cabotage to Croatian boaters. And during this transition period we made it possible for not only the Adriatic but also the other Croatian shipmen to fully adapt to the new way of carrying out maritime traffic on the Adriatic, and that is how it really happened. Here is that, this transitional period, I said, made it possible for Jadrolini, as well as other private boaters in Croatia who, during that time, acquired their own fleet that is tailored to the needs of connecting Croatian islands. As we know about the transport of Croatian islands at this time in the state budget is secured around 270 million kuna. During the adoption of the state budget in the Croatian Parliament, we checked and checked whether 270 million kuna in the state budget was sufficient to allow 52 lines, i.e. the normal functioning of 52 lines connecting the Croatian islands to those ships, were those fast-boats that were the ferry lines. From what the public-line coastal maritime transport agency calculated and on the basis of the fuel price in 2015, this amount is certainly sufficient to be able to connect Croatian islands in quality. Clearly, if there is a disturbance on the world market, if there is an increase in the price of the Mediterranean, it is clear that through the rebalancing of the state budget this position will have to be coordinated because the Croatian Government or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency, is obliged to provide the necessary means to ensure that Croatian islands can be quality-connected. Therefore, at this point, according to the price of fuel per Mediterranean 270 million kuna is quite enough to ensure this frequency and this quality of transport connection of Croatian islands. What is also important to mention is that this law ensures privileged transport to Croatian islanders. In fact, there were words that the new law would reduce the benefits that islanders have for transport connections. What is good is that Article 30 of the Law, i.e. Article 47 of the original law, is that all the privileges that the islanders have will be provided. I don't even believe that these are benefits but that it is simply a price compensation because life on Croatian islands is certainly where and where more expensive than life on the mainland. Therefore, this 270 million kuna fee, which is directed towards shipping ships that transport Croatia's islands, is quite appropriate in order to reduce the price or help islanders to be in a high-quality transport link if possible. In this sense, the HDZ club will support this bill. We expect the government, or the competent agency, to call as a regulatory body during this year for a tender for the transport of Croatian islands to clearly try to call the competition in a way that it is responsible to the extent that the law and regulation permits, primarily Croatian shipmen and clear and Croatian sailors. And that through the competition itself will be preserved and I would say even better traffic connection of Croatian islands. In this regard, the HDZ Club supports the proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10195	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, what wonders are you when a serious topic is being discussed that there is nothing on the other side of the assembly. Because when you need to suggest something concrete, when the law clearly shows which direction this government's policy is going towards the Croatian islands and then what's most important in this law is what happened in that four-year interregnum about the application of the Law to help the Croatian islands. So now it's all clear. When it comes to politicizing, it comes up with no arguments, no insults, no attacks, it's the first one. When there is no argument to argue, I am very interested in whether today the right side of the assembly will be painted, and this left one too, to see how much on this left, as it was painted yesterday when we had certain party obligations. And there's something else I'd like to say. When this law was passed and when it was said that it would liberalise transport linely then there were stories, these will come, those shipmen will push in and people do not realize that these 270 million invested by the Croatian state did not come overnight and that this is the only program that goes towards stopping people from Croatian islands and in the second stage to make this opposite direction so as to say that part of the people from Croatia are starting to come back and live on Croatian islands. But I'm saying when there are serious topics then we're gone, but when there's no argument to strike, they're the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10197	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10198	Thank you, Mr. President. You're right, you're a colleague of Shucker's. That's what I said in the opening statement, if we're talking about world-famous topics, if the debate on topics shared by the Croatian national being is then the left side of the assembly is very bile, then they are replicas, then they are injuries to the Rules of Procedure, etc. When it comes to a serious subject that can really help Croatian islanders, or which points to the care of the Croatian state towards Croatian islanders, then you can see that the assembly on that side is almost empty. I must say, I did not refer to the amendments of the SDP Club in the first place, but I wanted to ask the question of how the Social Democratic Party should amend this law when it had time for four years to propose this law and all what it proposes today through the amendment in that bill or in this law that this Parliament would have passed, all its considerations that go with the protection of shipowners in the first row of Jadrolinia and other Croatian shipowners, amendments that would have contributed to the better position of Croatian islanders could have been passed in that law. In fact, it would have been even better if this law had been passed last year because then this Croatian Government, because then the Public Line Coastal, Maritime Transport Agency would have had more time to carry out a quality law or tender for public coastal maritime transport. This is how I fear that by missing that deadline and not passing the law last year, they brought really the agency into... there will be very little time for a quality tender to be prepared when after the law has been passed, to implement it without talking about the possibility that a single shipowner who is not satisfied with the outcome of that competition should file a complaint. Indeed, the implementation of the entire line of coastal maritime transport may be at stake because we have been brought almost I say in a very, narrow, small period of time in which the law must be adopted and, after the law, amend the regulation and implement the whole public competition procedure after the regulation. Therefore, it seems little to me to hypocritically propose amendments instead of the law being passed in the past term when it is, to leave enough time for this whole procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10199	Thank you. The next is the replica of distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your discussion, you remembered the adoption of the first law in 2006, you said, for three days, a spear was broken here between the authorities and the opposition then, the authorities and the opposition, and it really prompted a lot of public attention, and there were really all kinds of predictions about what would happen when the law was passed, just some of those predictions, and we know who was the loudest, the loudest was SDP, the catastrophics who didn't even know about the possibilities that this law made possible for the national shipmen in particular and the competition that was later created by small shipmen. What were they saying then? You will remove the seat of Jadrolinia from Rijeka, destroy you and sell you to Jadrolini, the sailors will be out of work, they will collect island maps and so I do not count. What happened? Jadrolinija is still and will remain in Rijeka, the seat of Jadrolinija is in Rijeka, we established the Line Transport Agency in Split that same year, the fleet was restored, we heard 18 ships, the sailors are working and today it is a matter of prestige working on the Adriatic, everyone wants to work from the sailors right on the state boater. It is possible for tourists to be modern, modern, comfortable, good ships, good travel conditions, ticket prices, we remember how many times we've only reduced ticket prices, and we've simply adapted all the port infrastructure to the boaters that can work uninterruptedly to say in establishing connections between land and the island and today I say again the concerns of that same SDP, and that's just because those islanders don't understand, they don't know anything about them, how they've been doing for four years we've seen, the only thing they know is that this is in opposition, so let them remain, let them continue to be catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10201	The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10202	Thank you, Mr. President. That's right, fellow Boric. I have here a Report of the Croatian Parliament when the Law on line and occasional coastal transport was passed in 2006. When I read this report today, I almost can't believe it. All of what you said, so she's right, was that Jadrolini was going to sell out, that it was going to sink. We, by this law, have put aside the Law of Jadrolinia by the original law. By then there was a Law on the Adriatic, after which, the adoption of this law was put out of effect because after that law Jadrolini de facto no longer had the position of a monopoly on the Croatian Adriatic but we have found that the public tenders that will follow after the adoption of this law will allow Jadrolini to be sharpened in such projects in order to be ready to meet this very moment and this is the first time in January 2017 when he will be able to appear in the competition and to compete as great Croatian shipmen, great European shipmen. So I'm sure these 10 years have helped Jadrolinia to get us into this contest that will be called in a month just to win over all those lines that she herself thinks are acceptable and that she can do them in a quality way. Therefore, the law that was passed, over which the SDP had very, very many observations, which he said would destroy both the Adriatic and the Croatian islands and make life worse, is here today after 10 years we can testify that it did not happen, however that Jadrolini was never a better shipmaker and that Croatian islanders have all those, all those privileges in island transport that the Island Law had previously provided them and now this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10203	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on. So on behalf of the Club of Representatives MOST, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10204	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Assistant Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists allow me to say a few words about the amendments and additions to this Act. First of all, I would like to say that the Most Independent Lists will support amendments and additions to this Act. Since previous speakers have been very good at discussing this issue, especially Mr. Bacic, and most of what we wanted to say on this matter has already been said. I would just like to point out one very important fact, which is that the concession procedures are a very complex problem. Here we have a combination of actually two laws, a law on concessions and a law on public procurement. The fact that we have a relatively short period of time from the law to the time when we actually have to have a line in motion. It is very important to carry out these procedures very urgently. The fact is that I thank the assistant minister for explaining to us that our national company has been capacitated and that we should not have trouble winning these competitions. However, it should certainly be noted that there are other competing entities in the European Economic Area who can also report to these tenders. We know that the appeal procedures are often very complicated, that they can last a long time and it would not be good for that reason until the 1st month of 2017 we do not have a final executive decision on the award of concessions because this would mean a blockade of actually the lines connecting land and islands. And I would also point out a very important fact, which is that we should certainly respect the needs of the island population, respect what the island council or the island council are looking for in terms of the best possible lines so that they are fully functional and fully to the benefit of the island population. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10205	Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the HNS club of Liberal Democrats, will be taken by prominent representative Nada Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10206	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that is extremely important, i.e. changes that are important, since it is a matter that since the beginning of 2017 the issue of concessions in line and occasional coastal transport in the Republic of Croatia must be absolutely clear and resolved. It is especially important, of course, because to bring a little closer to colleagues who live exclusively on the continent, in fact, these lines are for our islanders and those who are necessarily bound to the islands, i.e. sea traffic, actually roads. The roads that connect them, which ensure communication between the islands and communication between the mainland and the island but also in the part of communication along the coastal crossing. When we passed this law, or before we came to this situation, there were, of course, large debates, which are now being called upon by HDZ colleagues. So quite justifiably, there are still certain concerns that will happen in reality. And I don't think we can fully prejudge from this pay phone the fact that it's going to end everything together just the way we want it to. And most of us would assume that they would like these key concession lines to be given to our state shipman. However, the fact is that after the previous adoption of the law, it has succeeded in something here today that shows good results, or shows that the great chance of Jadrolinia, namely Jadrolinia, is to get all these concessions to us. In this period that was actually given, given, which was negotiated to be honest, means that transitional, so-called. The transitional period is, Jadrolinia has significantly strengthened its position, and Jadrolinija has in good part restored its fleet. The company's policy was very good in the previous period. Of course, they are expected in the next period when they get these concessions and if they get them to strengthen their role even further. What we are particularly pleased about is that just in the guidelines, the strategic guidelines for the work of the company in the next period until 2025, it should be indicated that by 2027 the Jadrolinija fleet of 281 million kuna should be restored, that 26 new ships should be obtained from which 23 new constructions should be made. It means that it would also be invested in the quality of the ships that Jadrolini will own in the next period it is seen in particular through the data provided in the guidelines in such a way that the total fleet will actually be slightly reduced and the number of passengers increased, i.e. to increase traffic. These are, of course, the plans that are certainly based on the strategic objective as stated in that document that the strategic objective of Jadrolinia is to retain exactly these 34 concessions that we all express hope that Jadrolinia will get even though, of course, we should not prejudge the whole thing, although it is difficult for a shipowner to come from outside who will be able to adapt in a relatively short period of time to all the conditions that are put forward through the changes, that is, through this law that is now being proposed. What I would like to do as a representative from the coastal area of the coastal area, and relatively often communicate with our islanders, especially those islanders living on the so-called. small islands. Jadrolini will get one part of these concessions, which are related to between island transport. What is the current situation, which I think should be given additional support to the Adriatic if it succeeds in this project in concessions to modernise the fleet and adapt the fleet in that part of the integration, the interconnection of the island. These are smaller ships that mean life for these small islands that connect usually larger islands to these small islands that actually meet the daily needs of the islanders. And the fleet is on the good part, the good part of the Adriatic in a very, very bad state, and it is absolutely unsuitable to the needs of modern life. So very difficult, namely these ships sail too long from point A to point B because they are already very old, and also through these ships is some kind of burden except for people very difficult to translate. Well, that's a bit of a grudge. In fact, this inter-island communication should rise to a higher level in the coming period, and I hope that there and the state, or the competent ministry, will do everything to make it possible for the Adriatic to set the conditions, but also for some others who eventually get those lines, that they will be better equipped with ships, as well as more frequent and anything else that goes with it. Here is the Croatian People's Party club to support the bill. I do not think that at this moment, the collapse of such proposals, that is, de facto, and our position as a full member of the EU, is absolutely pointless from the position of MPs in this Croatian Parliament, given the consensus that we had to put on EU accession at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10207	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10208	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues of Turina Đuric. You say it is difficult to expect that after this competition, Jadrolini will be able to achieve its desire to continue to carry out maritime traffic in the same range. It's true, you're right, and I also think it's not hard to predict right now that that's exactly how it's gonna happen. But what can be predicted is that of five or six profitable lines that will likely be the subject of interest perhaps some other boaters besides Jadrolinia. But what Jadrolini has on those 5 or 6 profitable lines has is not a single boater. It's a top-of-the-line fleet that may be two or three years old, on average, two or three years old. Therefore, by doing so, the very fact that he has such ships, by the very fact that he is the only one with experience on the Adriatic in national navigation for 60 years without any near incident puts Jadrolini in a privileged position. But what I wanted to replicate to you is the fact that during the government of which you were, or your party was a member, there was a bankruptcy of the shipyard in the Queen. The queen was at the time when we started a project to rebuild the fleet of Jadrolinia, there was a shipyard that was hit right for the construction of the entire fleet of Jadrolinia. And there is mostly this large part of the ships that have been built in the last ten years that have just happened in the Queen. For the purposes of Jadrolinija and other Croatian shipmen were to be left behind at that time, to preserve the Queen. Today the Queen is privatized, has another path. But I also resented the fact that the government did not have enough hearing to allow for the needs of our ship's first Jadroliniers to function normally in the Queen's shipyard. And thus simply facilitates the additional new restoration not only of the Adriatic fleet, but also of other Croatian shipmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10209	Thank you. The distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10210	I'm glad you asked me about the Queen. Unfortunately, I don't have any photos right now to see what the bay of the former Kraljevica shipyard looks like. Now it's a space that's been concessioned to a private company, and this bay is currently full of Jadrolinija ships that are there on the remont carried out by this new concessionary, not to mention the name that has the expansion plan, which also has contracts with Jadrolinia, which performs this part regarding the remont but we have some announcements that some new constructions will start in the Kingdom. The reasons for the bankruptcy of the Queen's shipyard are very well known to you, so we will not explain them here, but what is important and most important is that the activity in the Queen's shipbuilding is being retained, that this work is being done there, and this is precisely for example by a strategic state-owned company that has remained in that aquarium on the remonts tells the fact that it is possible to connect, means to continue the shipbuilding of course by another model, repairs by another model and at the same time provide services to the public company in that area. So here at this point I think three or four ships of Jadrolinia are tied up in the bay of the Queen and carried out on them remonts before the season. And by the way, that's where those ships are all year round. I hope we're not just going to watch the remonts, we're going to be watching new constructions soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10211	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10212	Thank you very much. You have told colleagues that the non-acceptability of this EU directive would be a collapse in the essence of what has been accepted in the Parliament unanimously. However, whether the people accepted a unanimous way of joining the EU and a way to join the EU. It's a completely different thing. We're talking really about a strategic company here, and I would agree with you, about Jadrolinia, which has 840 million kuna per year and even knows how to get to a billion kuna. We're talking 1700 to 2,000 employees. And that varies. However, unanimous acceptance in the Parliament of pre-accession negotiations was not my best option, and I will also tell you why. Everyone has every right to vote. Because it is certain that 70% of the people are not at all aware of how we enter the EU, whether we have protected national interests in this case, Jadrolinia. Because this is what we open the market for. And when we open the market, it's a foreign company that's strong enough to cut the price one year to destroy our market. Therefore, this was exclusively my warning to pay attention to protecting our company Jadrolini, to protect the island population, to increase the number of transports and not exclusively to destroy this very important economic operator who, as I said, is 840 million kuna traffic and is always in profits. Because any strategic partner mentioned, we know what a strategic partner is in INA, a strategic partner in Sinj in numerous companies, in Split, in your area. It means to preserve the national interest. And by joining the EU you were unanimous but you did not show the people all these directives both Jadrolini, Jadroplot and agriculture and the rest. That's why we're where we are because we've essentially become servants of foreign masters.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10213	Thank you. The distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10214	So here are all the colleagues in the discussions Mr. Bulj said, regardless of their time and in some different views that they are convinced because of the current position of Jadrolinia and because of this transitional period which has allowed Jadrolinia to adapt as a company and to be strengthened in some way just for this moment that it is a very high probability, we cannot already say from this position 100% but it is very likely that Jadrolinia will be the only really competent bidder to get these concessions. So I think it's a little excessive your concern. As for the EU and our consensus, which I remember being here in this Croatian Assembly, we can talk about all the political options, but the world has not started with the entry of the Most Croatian Parliament, nor has Croatia started with the entry of the Most Croatian Parliament. Some continuity of decisions should be respected. But, of course, as a representative of a particular political option, you can always run something else that is completely legal and legitimate. However, you must know that the key policy options are, I would even say 1/1 in this House means not this one, but some who have previously sat here have made a unanimous decision to join the EU. But you can always argue that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10215	Thank you. Now we'll move on to individual debates. The first one will be the honourable representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10216	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's something I should say about a proposal to amend the Law on Public Line and occasional coastal transport. It is clear to all that public line coastal transport is one of the specific interests of the Republic of Croatia, because it simply wants to solve three basic interests or three basic problems that might arise that we do not have arranged this particular transport. This is primarily a smooth life on islands, then economic activities that must take place on islands, and what always worries us all is the problem of depopulation or demographics. How does that work out? Uninterrupted life on the islands of the state has been resolved in a way that has invested for decades in reconstruction or in the construction of a fleet of Jadrolinia and small boaters to give them the opportunity to travel daily to the islands. The islanders have the right to a privileged transport and it is a subsidized state, and when you have the possibility of living on islands, it is certainly necessary to encourage economic activity, because there is no life on the islands without an economy, especially tourism. And of course, especially in the summer months, boaters actually make their biggest incomes, which on some lines make them a positive business, and on some lines of the state, it is precisely that minimal zero that we are talking about the operation of shipowners of larger or smaller ones. The Depopulation is a special story and I am personally pleased by what we have achieved through the work of many governments, especially after the adoption of the Law on Islands that there is a census between 2001 and 2011 showed that the islands live 7 thousand inhabitants more than it was in 2001. And we know that the sea is this barrier that is difficult to cross, but I say to the pleasure of the islanders we can say today that this traffic is stable, it is at the level of over 12 million passengers, the revenues of the state shipman are stable and they grow from year to year, but the small shipmen have also found space to set up their activities, to get new ships even though many have gone from almost pure zero. Annual subsidies of public liner transport on islands were left somewhere between 300 million kunas in some years, including 400 million kuna. I think it was 2008. But just by adopting this law, they have made it possible to base parameters that the state could reduce this subsidy every year. Good relations between costs and expenditure have been achieved and it is precisely the task of a law like this to enable a competition and to reduce costs. reduce subsidies and keep the system working and better. This year, we heard of a state budget of strong opposition to the fact that compared to last year, the amount was reduced from 310 to 270 million kuna. However, clear projections of the coastal line transport agency in Split have been made, which said that based on their projections, the world market price of oil and in the Republic of Croatia will cover all the needs of the shipowners so that they can work uninterruptedly and can get exactly as much as they need to be able to do positive business. We heard from Mr. Bačić's exposure that over the past 14 years it has been continuously worked to rejuvenate the fleet of a particularly state-owned shipman where we have 18 new ferrys and ships, five new catamarans. However, small boaters also invested because they realized they had a chance to catch up with Jadrolini in some kind of competition and they really did make maybe an unexpected big step. But in order not to be all the way to the ships, not to the catamarans or the ferry, it was also necessary to make a special port infrastructure that could receive a large ferry instead of some smaller ship that had been trafficked on that line, and there were also major shifts in the cooperation of the State, especially the Ministry of the Sea and the County Port Administrations. What I know for sure is that in the period 2004-2011 when HDZ took care of islands, we restored life on islands, built a new one, built 70 ports on the Adriatic from Umag to Cavtat. And I think it was one good impulse that just all the problems within the public shipping in the sea are solved and that in some way we have really optimal conditions that we can function. Because when you have a good boat, ferry, modern, comfortable, when you have a trained crew that meets all the conditions especially those that are quite elaborated and require great denials through various sublegal acts, when you have port infrastructure you can do a very quality job, connect the island with the mainland and in the most difficult weather conditions which often be a problem. When we look at the legislation of the Republic of Croatia governing maritime transport, we have this law, the Maritime Code as some kind of maritime constitution and many regulations and regulations that have elaborated every detail that must satisfy the shipowner in order to even engage in this business of connecting the island to the mainland. And today I dare say here that I'm just about to be transported by sea, perhaps the most orderly type of transport or transport to the Republic of Croatia. I think, given the bill's proposal, when it's adopted, it's fully ready for a single game. I come from the island of Rab. It's an island that has its own fleet. The only one on the Adriatic. I'm sorry that Korčula had such a one, one of its shipmen, but it no longer works in the maritime integration of the island. And this shipowner is a Rape sailing that has been continuously since 1963 means almost 53 years doing its job to please us islanders, us living on the island of Rab. And when we talk about competition in ferry transport, they are actually the only competition in Jadrolini at this possible competition. And I think they're very well prepared to go to this very market game. In addition to the ferry line Stinica-Mišnjak, they also maintain one Rab-Lun boat line between the island of Rab and the island of Pag. What did they do to get into this game market? They have just contracted the construction of a new ferry, 100 vehicles that will be built at the aforementioned shipyard in the Queen. I mean somewhere around 7m euros because they want to welcome the contract ready with the contract, with the start of construction so that if they get the number, they will get the opportunity to continue public transport, sea transport between Rab and the mainland, to build it in the best possible way possible. Otherwise, there are now 4 ferry ships in their fleet and continuously they, like Jadrolini since 2004, have been investing in new ships, in the higher capacity of these ships. And what the state could do was help, and above all, it built two ports and Misnjak and Stinica as the newest port on the Adriatic so that we could even, I say, work with larger ships. What was the effect of building a new port and new ferry? In the season, tourists arriving on the island of Rab fell largely from the past 5 hours to only half an hour or 40 minutes. And we can all know what good port infrastructure means then, a good ferry and a good crew that sails in all possible conditions. Life on islands, I say, needs to be preserved and every government has the task of helping this life through subsidies, through support, through different programmes. And I think there's this government on that road. What we expect is to be re-established management for the islands and to increase detachment in part of the aid because we believe that the islands, regardless of having one good standard, still deserve a little more investment to solve all the problems of infrastructure and then allow conditions for tourism and islands to return as well as now returning large funds through tourism to the state budget to do so in an even better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10217	Thank you. Your exposure has caused several replicas, the first one being the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10218	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Boric, I absolutely agree with you and with all the exhibitions so far regarding, that great progress has been made in maritime transport. But I think it's really mature time for another extra step. Everyone here, absolutely everyone through their discussions and exhibitions, has said the link between the mainland and the island. But the time has come for us to make an additional step, including within the Government of Croatia's incentives and within the additional concessions of faster, younger, smaller lines between the island and the island. Namely, I can talk about the Middle Dalmatian, or Central Adriatic archipelago because I know it. Today, once the Vishanin to come to Hvar or Brač needs almost all day. It should come to Split, then from Split to Brac or Hvar. And vice versa, Bračanin, Hvarnin or any other. Indeed, the time has matured for this additional step so far in the infrastructure of port transport, shores, so the ferry is made and this step is made to make the connection between the island and the island either through concession and rapid lines or through incentives from the government because it is really difficult for a concessionaire to appear on such lines, obviously will not show economic viability. But there should therefore be a state that these steps that have been taking for the last 10 years of development, i.e. the maintenance of life on these islands, an additional step is made through additional measures to link the island to the island, at least those who are more populated and where citizens feel more the need to communicate between themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10219	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10220	Thank you very much, colleague Boban. It is precisely the adoption of this law that allows for the correction of an injustice that occurred in the past term, which is that the islanders were privileged to travel only on the lines towards their island on which they live. If they were to travel to another island, they would pay the full price of the map. This law and the adoption of this law enables us to travel favorably to all islands and therefore, here and therefore, we ask for the support of everyone to adopt it, so I would say by consensus because it is a great contribution to life and cheaper life on islands. As far as inter-island integration is concerned, there are lines that are state-owned and that concern individual lines or maintenance of these lines and several islands. However, this law also allows in the part of the concern to enable a competition and show some other shipmen who have ships that ride in the seasonal part of the Adriatic alone, let's say when we have tourism on the Adriatic to deal with themselves, whether they want to connect it, I don't know Vis with Hvar and to establish such a line in principle let's say a competition and then the state to assess what it could or could not help because, of course, there are both opportunities and local and county lines. And then we include local self-government and regional self-government. This law is good and I should say to adopt it if possible unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10221	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10222	Thank you, Mr. President. Kolega Borić, me and you, and almost all MPs, when they talk about this law, primarily think about the transport of Croatian islands. But I would add another piece of information that speaks of the importance of this law, which is the fact that Croatia last year had 65 million overnight stays in tourism and that almost every 3rd night was on Croatian islands. Thus, about 18 million overnight stays were recorded on Croatian islands last year, which speaks further about the importance of this law. So when we talk about this law then we talk about a very important segment of the economy that is taking place on Croatian islands and for whose event, for whose implementation is very important, very, very, very important this law. Therefore, when we talk about 270 million kunas that are being placed from the state budget and referred to maritime transport, then we need to know that we are thus also allowing a very important financial impact for the Republic of Croatia on the one hand. And on the other hand, it seems to me, that probably the Deputy Minister will know better the total income of Croatian shipmen carrying out this traffic is somewhere almost making me over a billion and a half kuna, and if we calculate a rate of VAT on these billions and a half kuna then we see that only through VAT is not through this traffic that maintained the budget returns much more than the subsidies for the functioning of the island traffic. So here I wanted only to add this one dimension to the very important maritime transport that I agree with you that one of the most orderly types of traffic in the Republic of Croatia is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10223	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10224	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I always take the opportunity in the Parliament to talk about islands positively. And when we discussed tourism and the Tourism Development Strategy, we were a little surprised by some of the intentions of the former government that I had at least heard on one committee that there was no need to build any tourist facilities on the islands anymore, that we had built up islands, that we had built up the infrastructure in tourism, and we see that tourism itself can draw positive events in the Republic of Croatia, you mentioned 18 million overnights and on the islands what we know officially, although statistics are not exactly accurate with regard to the number of small tenants' beds. There are over 300 thousand beds on the islands, which in a private sector that deals with tourism right now. What I consider to be a great success in the past 10 years is certainly the establishment of an agency in Split that has become I do not know if there is any other agency that has been decentralised, i.e. that it has its seat outside of Zagreb and has become recognizable in its work there I say working hard people who have so far been very concerned that this system is functioning, that there are no problems and what you mentioned in your debate, we can also boast that in the past few decades, it has not happened on the Adriatic coastal transport of any hararium and accidents that would have taken one life of any traveller. That's something we can always say to enter the competition and show that not only Jadrolini but also small shipmen like the Rape navigation deserve an opportunity to show on the market what they know, how much they can and they only need one small self-port state. And as you said, a triangle was created, a sustainable triangle which, as far as the subsidy is paid, almost as much on the basis of traffic and goes back to the budget, which means it's almost zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10225	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10226	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, in your presentation you mentioned the importance of the adoption of this law, and the Law on Islands and Reflections is the same as the ones here speak of what we all share in the common interest, which is the preservation of life on the island, the relief and business of businessmen on islands and certainly the strengthening of this small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So with Jadrolini strengthening and small boaters, you mentioned Rape sailing, I support it, but you should see how to help other boaters and here's my proposal and a question and help us who come from land cars and often I was on Rab to maybe reintroduce the line of the Senj-Baška-Lopar ferry that once existed. That way, they would cut our path short and reduce the pressure on existing lines. It should also be said that this is with these two laws, you mentioned that since 2001-2011 the population census of 7,000 more, I congratulate and welcome but unfortunately the results in Slavonia are quite different, in Brod-Posavina County during that period there are 14 thousand people less this year, 480 children less enrolled in schools, so here I am calling on this example to invite all of us and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to come to life in Slavonia and Baranja, through reform measures to return life to Slavonia and Baranja, and that there will be more on the next list in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10227	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10228	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaovic, I remember all the debates when we have a report on the Island Act. This is exactly the biggest fight we've dealt with or tried to solve on the islands, why can't we do the same in Slavonia? But mainly when these reports are summed up all of the country's investments in the development of the island from capital, infrastructure facilities to subsidies and support themselves. And it's always a dispute over why islands go on a yearly basis, I don't know about a billion and 200 million kunas, and how to go to Slavonia less or less. And we don't always know that answer because we don't know what or where or how much is invested since one legal obligation has been created here to collect all data and to know exactly what's going on in one area that's been isolated in some way, given that the islands say the mainland is surrounded by the sea on 4 sides and simply as such on the Adriatic, we have over a thousand of them, of which only 50 are populated which is not commendable but I say the state has shown concern. As regards the lines in the 2004-2011 mandate, we introduced a new line towards the island of Rab from the island of Krk because simply for this line you mentioned we did not have the conditions of Senj-Baška-Lopar because in Krk just the part of the Baška municipality created an atmosphere that was negative for the transport of the ferry that might have been because that space was actually the shortest line between Lopar and Baška. However, citizens protested over the great crowds during the season and did not want to. When the line went to the other side, everyone wanted it back, but then it was already over but there was always a possibility of saying between the county connections because we are talking about Licko-Senjska and the Primorje-Gorski County. If the county is interested and a ship can be put on that line, but I don't think it's gonna come yet because it's all costing some money and the county isn't exactly in the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10229	And the last replica of Tulia Demetlika's distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Boric, you said there are optimal conditions. And yes, we are a sea country facing the sea. And just all these years that have been invested in infrastructure has helped secure high-quality maritime lines. We have somehow protected our ship's Jadrolini as well as our shipyards. However, we also believe that we have made some mistakes by removing certain lines. Namely, the mentioned line was abolished and now the other day in the Assembly when they were young from Dubrovnik and said they had no connection between Dubrovnik and the northern part of Croatia, i.e. Rivers. The line was abolished last year, and four years ago the same line was abolished between Pula, Lošinj, Zadar, and we see that the very large number of tourists arriving in Istria certainly have that wish because Zadar is now a destination recognizable not only in Europe, but also throughout the world of Sibenik and Split. And I believe that the ministry will just through this new law that is certainly positive and that will contribute to the quality development of our shipping lines, and thus to ensuring life on our islands, but also to make sure that we are developing certain lines over the summer, through tourism, and we also have the possibility of cross-border cooperation where there is a great interest in establishing high-quality lines, and thus our shipyards would gain importance with the possibility of building these ships such as Raven, Ancona and Bari ports and connecting with our ports from Pula, Split and Dubrovnik. And I'm sure there's an increase in traffic that these shipowners are also doing a positive job and, yes, it's my desire to further reduce the budget as a subsidy by the state, to be on a market basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10231	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10232	Thank you very much. Comrade Demetlik, along the coastal line abolished in the previous term. I'm sorry it is, here you are, like the Istrian Democratic Assembly, supporting this government. She's been suspended. Obviously, the assessment of Jadrolinier was that they could no longer financially follow such a line that is quite demanding in the financial section and that some new types of traffic, above all highways may have made that line invaluable because today, however, it is faster to reach Dubrovnik and that part of the road than it used to be when that line worked. And as for this seasonal line, I don't know if it's off. That's the first time I've heard of it, so Lošinj, Zadar, Zadar-Losinj-Pula because in our term in 2007, in 2011, we introduced that line and it was a pay line, and I don't know why it went away, and for the first time I've heard it, if I've heard it right. It may have stopped the ship's interest or the agency did not do its job to replace that ship's ship on that line, but I think it was especially in the season justifying its existence and doing positive business. I hope that makes it right if it really happened. I really don't know that information. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10233	Thank you. Please make this morning's joy a little drowsy, so let's be quiet a little bit, because now the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10234	Thank you very much. We all agree that Jadrolinija is a strategic company that has an annual income of 840 million kuna, which employs 2,000 people and which is in profits. The market is opening up which is also natural, but the market is being opened under the EU directive. My predecessors saw a dose of calling that we had to respect it, we signed it. However, if the people had known what we had signed and what was signed against national interests, surely 90% of people would not have voted to join the EU in this way, and thus testify to a number of subsidies and numerous strategic jobs in the Republic of Croatia in the last 10, 15 years. It's an example of a bootlegger. It was forbidden to subsidise Split's smuggling while in the EU, while the car industry in Germany was allowed. So it was a selectivity in that regard. By joining the EU, we have certain obligations that we must respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10235	My colleagues, please, let's just keep it down a notch so we can hear what my colleague Bulj is saying. I really don't hear what he's saying, and probably neither do you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10236	As I come from the region of Dalmatia, the Dalmatian burns, forgotten and the islands are forgotten the fact that we only have full islands over the summer. After that, we do not have people on islands mostly young people who are not well, who do not have transportation or seas separated from land, from schools, studies, colleges and other needs so that they can develop normally in society. And I believe that the Jadrolini, which is a strategic company, had it been run and operated as a past, the past government and the former government, that today would have been twice as much income in the Adriatic and certainly would have been more protected. The opening of the market opens up what was happening in Croatian agriculture, the possibility of shutting down in one non-market and uncompetitive way. There is a possibility of a foreign company showing up that will lower the price of one season and can thus destroy our shipowner. Facts stem from experiences, not a triba ic far as I mention. Well, isn't it sad that during the negotiations with the EU, construction of a freeway of iron is not from a Split hardware store in our highways. There is not even a meter of Croatian tube in the building. Isn't it sad that with 5 million euros a kilometer he's collected three times the highway? So my suspicion is open that this possibility did not well protect the interests of Jadrolinija, which is the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, which is why I will also ask you, Mr. Assistant, to direct to the Minister of Questions which I will now read and hope that you will give the public, our parliamentary representatives, the employees of Jadrolinija an answer. Why was he bought a new catamaran without a public tender, and 5 million euros were paid? The second question is, how did the president of the Jadrolinia administration put the former minister at the helm of Jadrolinia even though he did not meet the requirements of the competition? Namely, he did not meet the conditions of five years of work experience in the management of affairs. He missed three years of work experience. Under three, employment for the director of human resources of a gentleman who doesn't meet the conditions of the tendering documentation? Under four, the employment of over 40 new leaders, executives and directors without experience and ignoring their own old temper in the Adriatic and the express admission into a permanent working relationship which is not the case with other employees who work both 10 years and over and have contracts for a certain period of time. Under five, is the ministry familiar with the withdrawal of money from Jadrolinija through technical maintenance of ships and setting up jobs for certain contractors as well as certain remont shipyards? Under six and a very important human resources are the most important in the Adriatic as well. Disrespect of the Labour Act and collective contract for Croatian seamen and full ignoring of social partners operating in the Jadrolinija society. And we need to know, Assistant Minister, that 100% of Jadrolini is owned by the Republic of Croatia and that these things would not happen, they would not have about a billion kunas of transport in Jadrolinia, but would have at least 2 billion. I hope, what I said, that this ministry will protect national interests, that it will not happen in the past government and previous governments, to protect the national strategic company Jadrolini, to protect the interests of people on the islands, and that these people are being preserved, to increase the number of transportation through profits through this company Jadrolini because that money goes into the budget, that's all through VAT. I also expect that protection of both the islands and the Adriatic Sea and our seas, our national interest is not to occur as with the drilling of the Adriatic for hydrocarbon exploration that Croatia risks environmental pollution, the collapse of tourism, the failure of our 17% of GDP while Norwegians, the Norwegian company has the results and it trades with these results and Croatia has only the risk and destruction. I hope and expect from you that you will protect national interests and I will give you this instance of questions that I expect from you the answer from Minister Butkovic, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10237	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Fifty. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Reputed Deputy Maritime, Transport Minister Miro Skrgetic's infrastructure. First of all, an amendment to the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10239	Thank you, Mr. President. On the first amendment, we can plead yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10240	So the amendment is accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment to the two Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10241	It's also acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10242	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the three Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10243	This amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. This amendment proposes to delete the possibility that shipowners may not have to own a ship when making an offer but can only provide proof that this condition will be met until a public service contract is concluded. Such a possibility was introduced into the 2006 law on the ship's initiative to participate in the number of shipowners in concession tenders, and due to high investment in ships and insecure outcomes of competitions, and in practice proved justified. Following the adoption of this amendment, it would make it impossible to participate in tenders for the right to provide public transport services to those shipowners who are not yet owned by appropriate ships for individual lines and are in the process of obtaining them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10244	Therefore, we believe in the principle that at the time of the provision of public transport services with a public service obligation, the applicant here must contribute to the decision of the competent port captainy on the registration of the ship because this prevents speculation and machination and thus the state-owned company Jadrolini. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10245	Please, we will now vote on an amendment to the SDP that the government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? The vote is over. Please score? 54 are for the amendment, 4 abstentions, 75 against. He didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is Amendment 4. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10246	This amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The amendment proposes to identify an even more complex adjustment of the question of answering the needs of increased capacity of transport in relation to a solution under the applicable laws which have proved to be difficult to apply in practice. The only applicable criterion is to determine the real need which is one of the elements of the public service contract in accordance with Regulation 3577/92. determined by the service provider. The constant adaptation to the real needs of the line which does not have to be strictly quantified and limited by parameters and supported by studies is the duties of the shipowner as a contractual service provider. In the summer traffic burdens, it is necessary to intervene in a hasty manner to ensure increased capacity, above all, by a shipman already performing a public service, and we stress that. And only in addition to the other ship for carrying out that transport. In this respect, we consider the decision referred to in Article 25 of the Law more acceptable than the amendment proposed and stress that the same solution follows Regulation No. 3577/92. predicting that the transport link is constantly adapting to the new situation, i.e. make adjustments to real needs primarily through a public service contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10247	Does the amendment promoter want? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10248	Yes, this is how you leave it to the agency and instead of having strict criteria whenever possible. So I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10249	I ask you to vote on the amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. 50 for, 8 abstentions and 72 against. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment No. 5th Representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10250	The amendment of Agent Davor Penic shall not be accepted with the following reasons: in addition to the free emergency transport of patients as referred to in Article 47(6), paragraph 3 of that Article, point 6 of this Article, it shall be determined that healthcare professionals and their official vehicles shall be entitled, in the course of the regular transport of patients from the island to the mainland and vice versa, to preferential transport with a discount. In addition, paragraph 6 of that Article provides that the funds for such preferential transport with a discount shall be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the divisions of the competent central authorities of the State Administration. In this case, the Ministry of Health would provide funds for that part of the ticket to be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10251	Dear Representative Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10252	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. With that amendment, I wanted to equalise the medical subjects on land and on the island, so I submitted the amendment. Sanitary transportation is not paid on roads and highways, why should it be paid on a ferry? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10253	Please join the vote on the amendment of MP Davor Penic, whom the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. 72 votes in favour, none abstentions 62 against. . Can we keep our joys quieter after all? [[Applause.]] The amendment is accepted means. The following is Amendment 6. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10254	That amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10255	It becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment 7. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10256	We do not accept this amendment with the following explanation: the existing practice has shown the need to ensure the possibility to meet the peak seasonal needs on individual lines and that, in this sense, lines without a public service obligation may concern no more than 80% of ports on the public service obligation line. In addition, it should be pointed out that, in accordance with the provision of Article 55a(4), the concession provider or the contracting authority in each particular case of granting consent must take into account all the circumstances, and in particular the impact of carrying on a line without a public service obligation on the line on which regular public transport with a public service obligation is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10257	Does the Proposer want it? Yeah. Dear Representative Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10258	Thank you very much. So I repeat, the meaning of the amendment is also the protection of a state-owned company because right during the summer months the greatest demand is to say so on the seasonal lines. So that's how we throw out our income to Jadrolini. I suggest a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10259	Please join the vote on the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? I'm asking for a result. 49 for, 1 abstention and 78 against, did not get enough votes. The eighth is the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10260	We accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-20-0.u10261	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am therefore voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. Please vote. Who's for this bill of law with the amendments, of course? 94 for, five abstentions and 32 against. I find that most votes have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport along with the amendments adopted.
