ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6856	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. I am opening the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic, the first vice-president of Mr Tomislav Karamark, Deputy Prime Minister Bozo Petrov and all other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does anyone have any objections to the record, please? I don't see anyone answering. Therefore, if there are no objections, I note that we have adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in thicker, fatter letters. These points did not contain a draft agenda that you received with a call a week or a dozen days ago. I put five new points in the final draft agenda. And these are points under numbers 6, 7, 11 and points 20 and 27. So that's below the point: 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No The European Parliament and the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 27 11. Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014 20. Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds Carrier: Raiffeisen pension funds 27. Proposal for a law implementing the Customs Law of the European Union, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Article 227 The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Before deciding on urgency, I would like to remind you that for the 34th point in the final draft agenda, the motion for urgency has been withdrawn, so we will discuss this point in the first reading. This is point 34, to remind you of the bill on amendments to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 1 Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I'd like to ask you now to engage to check the quorum, to see if we have a quorum. Please, let's get involved. Thank you very much. We can take a look. There are a total of 119 of us, so I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can rightly decide. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. These are points 5, 6, 7 and 27 in the final draft agenda. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 206(1) I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure will be decided on a bill proposed by the Proposer to adopt in an emergency procedure. This is point 38 of the final draft agenda, to remind the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E.BR. 21 proposed by the Croatian-Social-Liberal Party's Club of Representatives, the Retirement Block together and the Independent Representatives Gordana Rusak, the MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? I don't see anyone answering. Therefore, I note that the proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is deemed to be established in accordance with Article 225(3) of the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure can now be addressed only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, with a call for a session, and on points 6, 7 and 27, we have declared ourselves on the occasion of the emergency vote. Is there any one of the MPs and representatives objecting to the inclusion of points 11 and 20 of the final draft agenda which did not contain a draft agenda that you received with a call for a third session. Let me remind you again, those are points 11. Report on business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014 and 20. Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds. I don't see anyone answering. If there is no objection, I would like to confirm that these points are included in the agenda of the third session. That, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner but I suggest that, in accordance with our practice, if you agree that I do not read it fully now, rather than allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. If it's okay with you, here's what I see you're getting along, so thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Therefore, I would firstly comply with Article 226(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the agenda of the 3rd session with 17 new points. 1. Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 28 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 30 1. Proposal for an Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 32 1. Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation in the field of payment, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 33 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the framework loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a flood protection project, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 31 1. Proposal for a Act confirming the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany and Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency implementing Articles 3(1) and 4. Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and additional protocol under the Agreement between the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Helen Republic of Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Sweden, the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the implementation of Articles 1 and 4. Non-proliferation of nuclear weapons with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 34 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 29 1. Report on the implementation of the Property Management Plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015 1. Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and expenditure in 2015 1. Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 41 1. Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and Production and Transport of Weapons, with a final proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 42 1. Proposal for an amending law and patent law, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35 1. Proposal for a law amending the Mark Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 37 1. Proposal for a law amending the Industrial Design Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36 1. Proposal for a law amending the Code on Geographical Origin Marks and the designations of origin of products and services, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 38 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 40 The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. Can we see how many of us are there? There's 99 of us in total, so we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. These are points 1 to 4 and 10 and 11 of the proposed supplement. So, I wouldn't read them again if you agreed? They're all written. However, the Legislative Committee has proposed that the draft laws under points 2 and 3 go to first reading even though they are P.Z.E. Laws. Therefore, it is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on spatial regulation with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 30 and the proposal of the Law on Alternative Resolution of Consumer Disputes with Final Bill Proposal, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. Thirty-two. So we have a situation that the Legislative Committee has proposed that despite what the P.Z.E. is about. The laws they go in in two readings, i.e. to go in first reading. We have to vote on that. Therefore, I beg you, first of all, for the proposal under no. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Regulation with the Final Proposal of the Law. Who is it for that law to go to first reading? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 101 votes for, 1 abstention. So he goes to first reading. The second is the proposal for a law on alternative consumer dispute resolution with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Thirty-two. Again, the proposal of the Legislative Committee to go to first reading, regardless of what P.Z.E. is.. So who's in favor of this law going to first reading? Please vote. 102 votes for, not one abstention, not one against. Thus, this Law goes to first reading. Other laws pursuant to Article 206(1) The rules of procedure are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure under paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of the proposed amendment, that I do not read them again now? Here you go. We have an esteemed representative, Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6858	Mr President, the SDP Club has objections to the urgency of the proceedings under points 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. This government has not yet provided us with any law that would go into regular procedure which in the last term has always been an objection to your club, even if there were laws that went into the regular procedure. We have the Constitutional Court's warning that the rule of law must be in two readings and today, the Commissioner for Information has also warned us that it is not good that the laws go into emergency procedures. So please let us vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6859	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6860	Dear Mr President, in the club of the Croatian Party of Retired and Independent List of Stipe Petrina, we believe that there are no business conditions for an emergency procedure for points 7, 12, 15, and 17 and that both the patent and amendments to the laws on geographical indications of origin and the designation of origin of products and services as well as the service in the Armed Forces and the rights of the President should be made if there is no public debate before then between the two readings. That's the attitude we're in, so I'd like the Parliament to make a statement on the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6861	Thank you very much. Therefore, we will now vote on the urgency of the procedure for each of these laws. First of all, I ask you to vote on amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon the termination of our duties with the Final Proposal for the Law. Who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 73 for, not one abstention, 26 against. I find that an emergency procedure for this Act has been accepted. The next Act is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on patents, with the Final Proposal for the Law. Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure with this law? Yes, thank you. 71 for, 29 against, not one abstention. I'm confirming an emergency procedure has been accepted. The following law is the Proposal for a Law amending the Mark Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 71 for, 30 against, no one abstention. I find that an emergency procedure for this Act has been accepted. The following is the Proposal for a Law amending the Industrial Design Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 71 votes for, 30 against, no abstentions. I'm trying to determine that the emergency procedure has been accepted. The following is the Proposal for a Law amending the Code on Geographical Origin Labels and the Origination of Products and Services, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Please, who's in charge of the emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 69 for, 29 against, no abstentions. I'm trying to determine that an emergency procedure has been accepted. The following law is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products with the Final Proposal of the Law. Who's in for an emergency procedure? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 71 for, 28 against, 1 abstention. I find that an emergency procedure for this law has been passed. Finally, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with a final proposal for a law. Who's in for an emergency procedure? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 70 for, 30 against, no one abstention. I find that most of the votes have been accepted by an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives and deputies have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points on the agenda of the third session, these are points 8 and 9 of the proposed additions? It doesn't seem to be. If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. By doing so, colleagues and fellow MPs have been set up to supplement the agenda. Here you go, dear representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6863	Mr. President, I have one perhaps unusual question. I'd like to know if you know what percentage the conditions for voting on the report of the Croatian National Bank for 2014 have been met? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6864	So, we will continue with the regular work of this session on Wednesday 27 April, the first point will be as follows by the consolidated agenda Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014. I, of course, invite you all to come tomorrow and pay tribute to the victims of Jasenovac who will be at 11.00, will begin the ceremony at 11.00 p.m. I expect all of us to be there and give our duty to the victims of the crime that took place there. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 3:33 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives in accordance with Article 226(2). The Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition to the agenda of the third session with 10 new points. I'll read them to you now. The first would be the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Fifty. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48. Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspections Act in an Economy with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 47. Fourth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 51. Fifth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 49. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 43. The proposals include the Club of HNS representatives, the HRID Representatives Club and the Independent Representative of Shandor Juhas, the Club of HSU Representatives, the Independent List of Stipa Petrina and the Independent Representatives. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 45. Proposers are 45 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Heat Energy, first reading, P.Z. No. 44. Proposer is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Party of Work. Nine. Proposal for a law amending the Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 46. Proposer is representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Ten. Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2015. The applicant of this report is the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Here's an honorary representative, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6866	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament for political consistency and credibility, given that in the last term of 4 years, I have expressed disagreement on behalf of the HDZ Club why the laws come by emergency procedure, I ask the representatives of the Government as well as all the legislators of the law that we also propose to the legislators that for all those laws for which no business conditions have been established to go according to an urgent procedure to appreciate and respect this House of Commons and that the laws of debate be discussed in two readings. I think we as representatives simply must fight to restore the credibility and value of this House. And that's why I'm asking nicely as President of the Parliament, I understand my government colleagues that these three months have been a mess and it should have been done, but what is P.Z.E. We understand that, what the business conditions are for us, we understand the same, but it's not like all the laws have to go according to an emergency procedure. But I repeat because of political consistency if we objected to it for four years then it would be extremely incorrect and politically unfair not to say it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6867	Thank you very much. Dear representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6868	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP club also notes the urgency of procedures in all laws that go into urgent action other than that which is in line with EU legislation. We must also follow the instructions of the Constitutional Court which said that most laws must go according to regular procedures, exceptionally in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, go in two readings and extremely only by emergency procedure. It is a good thing that fellow Shuker is joining it, and I hope that this will have an echo in the Croatian government as well. So far, we have not received any law here in this term that would go to regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6869	I have to correct you, yes, but most of it was an emergency procedure, and I agree with you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6870	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HNS Club, we also join these demands. It's not good that the laws go according to emergency procedures, it's not good for the motionor himself. It's incomparable when they have two readings that we've had a chance, we've now had one law that has a P.Z.E. code. but we've decided in two readings for a simple reason because we're getting much better quality solutions than usual. You have a chance to see from these 10 that it's just P.Z.E.'s first proposal. which absolutely justifies the urgency of the procedure. Equally under point 6 is one law that why is the urgency of the procedure? For the simple reason, he refers to local elections. Local elections have been held since 21 May 2017. The recommendation is that what concerns elections should be held in the Parliament a year before, so I pray that it would be good to do so in an urgent procedure, given that we are already here today the end of April.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6871	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of the House of Prof. Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6872	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament on what the honourable representative said about the elections and the deadline of one year refers only to state elections and to the electoral law relating to the state level in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, does not apply to local elections. The problem of the local electoral system can be arranged within less than a year and there is no need for emergency procedure or in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6873	Thank you very much. You're all a little ahead of me. I was of course going to say that article 227. The Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt any of these laws by an urgent procedure, and of course we will vote on it then obviously in accordance with the express wish of the MPs. I'm asking you first to engage to check the quorum. We can, do you have a score? 98, so there's enough of us to have a quorum and we can rightly decide. I hear there's a problem with, is there a voting problem? We can please do it again. This is how, since for technical reasons the whole system would have to start again and so, I will ask the honourable representative Glasnović to sit somewhere else and vote elsewhere, with his card of course. It seems to me to be the simplest and most practical solution. We seem to have solved the technical problems, and so we have established that we have a quorum and that we can rightly decide. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with the European Union documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. It's just a proposal from the first so-called law. This is, therefore, point 1 of the proposed amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport and Line Act, occasional coastal transport with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Fifty. Article 206(1) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I find this legislative proposal to be included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Now, of course, I have to formally ask you if any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure to the adoption of the others? You obviously do. So let's vote on proposals from 2nd to 10th, please. So first we have: 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48. Who's in for an emergency procedure? Please score. 70 is for emergency procedure, 2 abstentions, 28 against. The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspections Act in the Economy with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. 47. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? Vote. I'm asking for a result. 70 for, 2 abstentions, 32 against. An emergency procedure has therefore been accepted. The following is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 51. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 69 for, 3 abstentions, 31 against. Therefore, the emergency procedure has been accepted. The following is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. No. 49. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 69 for, 1 abstention 33 against. I'm realizing an emergency procedure has been accepted. The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. No. 43. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 26 for, 5 abstentions, 71 against. I therefore conclude that this law will not go according to emergency procedures but will go according to regular first - reading procedure. The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. No. 45. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 69 for, 4 abstentions, 27 against. An emergency procedure has therefore been accepted. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to include the remaining points in the agenda of the third session? So these are points 8, 9 and 10 of the proposed additions? It doesn't seem to be. If there are no objections, these points shall be included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the agenda has been established. Now we'll move on to that part about the vote. But before that, of course, I would like to suggest an addition to the agenda. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 3rd session with 25 new points. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Gender Equality with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 63; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Food Information Act with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 65; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The Bible says: “I am the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who. Law confirming the World Postal Convention with a final protocol with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 57; 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the general rules of the World Postal Union with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 58; 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the postal payment services agreement with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 59; 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the HAC restructuring project with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 52; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64; 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 66; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 52; - Proposer Ivan Vilibor Sinčić; 1. Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, first reading, P.Z. No. 53; - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; 1. Proposal for a referendum law, first reading, P.Z. No. 54; - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on drug control and abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 55; - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; 1. Proposal for a Law on transfer of ownership over retirement homes, first reading, P.Z. No. 56; - Proposers of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the HSU and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina and Independent Representatives; 1. Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the Court of Justice for 2015 – Carrier of the President of the Supreme Court; 1. Annual Defence Report 2015; 1. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2015 with a contribution – Carrier of the Croatian Olympic Committee; 1. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2015 – Carrier of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development; 1. Proposal for a Decision declaring the ‘National Ambliopi Day’; 1. Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, first reading, P.Z. No. 60; - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 61; - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS; 22 is the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2015. The applicant is the Competition Protection Agency. 23 is the proposal of the Law on the transfer of pension rights, first reading, P.Z.E.BR. 67. 24th Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2015. I 25th Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2015. And that would be about it. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I'm asking you to engage in a quorum checkup. Please score. There are 80 present in total, therefore we have a voting quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. These are points 1 to 3 of the proposed additions, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Gender Equality with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.63, the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Food Information of the Consumers with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z.E.BR.65, the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Foreigners with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, the P.Z.E.BR.68. Article 206(1) is replaced by the following: I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 4 to 9 of the proposed amendment? Dear Representative Zgrebec, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6875	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP Club has objections to all the points listed except for point 7 of the urgency of the procedure, and we are sorry that the Government did not respect the proposal of the president of the HDZ Club at the last vote to no longer deliver laws to the emergency procedure. Well, we expect to be supported by the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6876	Dear Representative Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6877	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. We have an objection to the inclusion by emergency procedure of the laws under paragraphs 4 to 9, all 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 precisely for the reasons previously stated and all that has been advocated by colleagues and colleagues and the Patriots and the Most, and we also expect their support to support these laws to be incorporated into the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6878	Thank you very much. I am extremely glad that the quorum has increased rapidly, so we can proceed with the vote. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative of the Mlakar, Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6879	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, we've determined the quorum and found that 80 present representatives are present at this session. I don't understand how an not present representative can object to the inclusion of points in the agenda. I'm asking for an explanation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6880	My interpretation that suddenly everyone appeared here obviously and will probably vote now. We will have to re-establish the quorum because each of these points for which the objection has been expressed will have to be a vote. And I'm so glad that the quorum suddenly increased so dramatically. So now we're going to vote on each of these laws that were naturally questioned. So, first of all, I'm asking you about the Confirmation Act... We can continue, on the Law confirming the World Postal Convention with a final protocol with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.57. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, who's in? The result, please. 75 for, 2 abstentions and 27 against. So, we've accepted an emergency procedure. The following is the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of General Rules of the World Postal Union with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.58. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 72 for, 3 abstentions and 28 against. So an emergency procedure has been accepted. The following law is the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a postal payment service agreement with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.59. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 74 for, 4 abstentions, 26 against. So we accepted an emergency procedure. The following is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of HAC restructuring projects with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 62. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 72 votes for, five abstentions, 24 against. I'm realizing an emergency procedure has been accepted. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Welfare, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 75 for, 5 abstentions, 24 against. I'm realizing an emergency procedure has been accepted. Finally, the proposal for a law amending the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public procurement by insurance companies with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 66. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. 75 for four abstentions, 24 against. I find that the urgency of the procedure for this law has been accepted. Any of the representatives and representatives of the notice to include the remaining points in the session's agenda, so these are points 10 to 25 of the proposed additions? It doesn't seem to be. If there are no objections, these items shall be included in the session agenda. That's how ladies and gentlemen the representatives of the agenda are determined. Now we will approach the additions to the agenda of colleagues and fellow MPs. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall apply. I'll propose a supplement to the agenda of the Thank you so much for finally stopping talking. So I'm going to suggest a supplement to the agenda of the 3rd session with 10 new points. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 69; - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; 1. Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Foundation “Croatian House – Croatia House”, first reading, P.Z. No. 70; 1. Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and Proposal for a Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2015; 1. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace resolution support in Afghanistan; 1. Annual State aid report for 2014; 1. Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2015; - applicant of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families; 1. Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2015; 1. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of labour legislation, regulation of work for a certain period of time; - applicants of 16 representatives in the Croatian Parliament; 1. Interpletions on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the procedures to be initiated before international arbitration courts... A colleague of yours took it, so at least keep your mouth shut while I read it, I beg you nicely. [[The noise in the hall, you don't understand.]] Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in proceedings which will be launched before international arbitration courts against the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Law and the law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions; - applicants of 25 Representatives of the SDP Club. 1. Proposal to launch a trust issue to Tomislav Karamark the first vice-president of the Republic of Croatia; - Proposers of 39 representatives of SDP's Club of Representatives. In accordance with Article 125 of the basic Regulation, The Rules of Procedure of a proposal to launch a trust issue to the Prime Minister, to the individual member or to the Government as a whole shall be incorporated immediately into the agenda without decision. So that's not what we're gonna decide. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. I'm asking you now to engage for a quorum check. 85, so I'm determining that we have a quorum and that we can rightly decide. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of points 1 to 9 of the proposed addition to the agenda of the 3rd session? I would like to note once again that point 10 is included in the agenda under Article 125. Rules without voting. There is no one, unless there are objections to all the proposed points being included in the session agenda. And by doing so, colleagues and fellow MPs have been set up to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6883	Mr. President of the Parliament, I'd just like to ask why you didn't include a proposal from the HNS Club today to expand the agenda. This is the proposal for a conclusion on support for full curricula reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6884	He only arrived yesterday, so he didn't simply arrive to be included in the agenda. It will be included first, according to the Rules of Procedure will be included absolutely. Next week, we'll put him on the line. It will be included in the business schedule. [[So 24 hours isn't enough for us to multiply that document. Thank you.]] Yes, as soon as possible. Here you are, dear representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6885	Dear Mr. President, you read the dots. Indeed, we would tribale have these materials to see which points it is. It's incomprehensible when you read, we just can't figure out what the laws are, what the laws are, so here I'd like to ask that these materials be shared to see the points we're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6886	Materials are divided, only list is not divided That's right. [[Intruder Bull: List, list, I'm talking about the list.]] So I apologized in advance for not being divided, so I read it, and the materials are all divided. You've got materials. So, the proposal to supplement the agenda I say again, unfortunately the list is not divided, but all the materials are divided and you have them. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. We've had a quorum before, now we have an even bigger quorum, so we can make a right decision. Any of the MPs having objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the context of the adoption of the law under points 1 and 3 of the supplement. That's to read again. I'll read it to you now. These are therefore: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act with the final proposal for a law, first and second reading, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 73. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on compulsory health insurance with a final draft law, first and second reading, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 74th and three Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. Yes, here you go, dear representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6887	The SDP Club has an objection to the urgency of these three laws. We already have several times, or every time the Government gives in an emergency procedure, we have an objection. We are again calling for a representative of the HDZ Club who also warned the government not to send us laws by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6888	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6889	Mr. President, the HNS club also has objections to the inclusion of these laws by emergency procedure. In fact, if it's an emergency, if the government insists on urgency, we can do it correctly, technically, very quickly through about 15 days. I therefore propose that these laws, which are addressed to the emergency procedure, be based on everything that my colleague Zgrebec has said and on the intensity that went from the ruling coalition to the regular procedure, by the fact that the HNS Club has also referred the same law on the financing of the water economy by regular procedure, so we think it would be good to have a united debate regardless of what it is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6890	Okay, thank you very much. Then we'll approach the vote on each of those three laws. So, firstly, who is in favour of an emergency procedure on the law, to discuss, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act with the final proposal of the law, P.Z. No. 73. Please vote. Who's in for an emergency procedure? What's the score? 70 for, 7 abstentions, 49 against. I'm confirming an emergency procedure has been accepted. The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. No. 74. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please vote. What's the score? 66 for nine abstentions, 50 against. I find that most of the time an emergency procedure has been accepted. And the last is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the final draft law, P.Z.E. No. 75. Who's in for an emergency procedure, please? What's the score? 68 for, 9 abstentions, 50 against. I find that most of the votes have adopted an emergency procedure for this law as well. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of this third session? These are points, so four to thirteen proposed additions. It doesn't seem to be. Thank you. If there are no objections, these items shall be included in the session agenda. And by doing so, fellow MPs and advocates complement the agenda established. I'd like to take a break by 12:00 when we're going to join the vote. ... All right, then, let's go to the hearing right now. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We can, of course, wait here. I thought I'd take a break because unfortunately the materials didn't come. The materials didn't come even though the board was done with work and the result was known, but the materials didn't come because I thought I'd give a break because I think it's correct for everyone to have materials and then to be able to talk about it. So, the vote will be at 2:00 a.m. secure, and the debate will, of course, be as soon as the materials arrive. It's 11:00. Well, before we go to the first point, we have two jobs to do. One is colleagues and colleagues, and I would like to add the agenda of the 3rd session to the point of the proposal to launch a trust issue to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Tihomir Oreshkovic, who was proposed by 42 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Your proposal for an act was delivered to the benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that the proposal to launch a trust issue to the Prime Minister, to the individual member or to the Government as a whole shall be included in the agenda immediately without decision. My colleagues and colleagues are teaching on the provision of this article of the Rules of Procedure that the agenda of the 3rd session is complemented by the point of the proposal to raise the issue of trust to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Tihomir Oreshkovic. Now we're going to continue to work towards the cleaned agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6893	Thank you, Mr. President. Just to correct, you said he submitted a request from the Club of Representatives of the SDP, in fact they submitted 59 MPs in which the entire club of the Croatian People's Party is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u6894	I'm sorry, it wasn't written, so I didn't read it, but we're accepting it, of course. Any of the representatives and deputies have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda of the 3rd session? I don't think so. If there are no objections then this item is included in the session agenda. So, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been determined. Madam and gentlemen, we would now begin by asking questions to the Government or to individual members of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Rule 132-139. The current morning, as you know, takes place at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line to ask questions is Representative Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7373	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to ask one question, but I'm also going to warn you of a problem that has been going on for many years and that in Slavonia and Baranja is an extremely big problem for us. These days it has become an actual sale of land. Someone would buy it and someone would sell it. I have to tell you, there's no more land in Baranja to sell. There is no more free country in Baranja. All is processed and is all more or less given in long-term concepts or are given in long-term lease or in temporary lease. The most countries were given either to Beli or Agrokor because they enjoyed the priority lease because they had previously processed the country. For example, in the Municipality of Prince Vinograd of some 9,000 hectares of land, 7,000 hectares were given in certain leases or concessions and some 6300 ha were given to Belje. It was given on the basis of a priority lease because it was promised to keep jobs and to continue production. So it was given in the municipality of Prince Vinogradi I said 6300 ha, in the municipality of Belje somewhere around 2000 ha etc. The problem is the price. The price is given somewhere in the amount of about 350 kn per ha country, however, the market price and price paid by the OPGs or in private rent is about 1500, 1800 kn Local self-government units thus lose enormous amounts of money to the municipality of the Princes of Vinograds somewhere around 4 000, municipalities..../ intruder: PRESIDENT: Mr Juhas. [[Agreement: President: Thank you very much.]] Time's up. As far as I'm concerned, you haven't really asked the question, but the Honorable Minister of Agriculture will answer. I set up whether the reform government is planning to implement the price reform of the state's lease.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7374	Thank you very much. Agriculture Minister Davor Romic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7375	Thank you very much. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs thank you very much for the question. However, through a little chronology, I would point out how the process was going and what this reform government would do. The leases and concessions of agricultural land were established and agreed between 1994 and 2016 in accordance with the current rules. During this period, the modality of setting the price of leases and concessions was different. I would just like to point out here that during this entire period the Croatian Parliament changed the Law on Agricultural Land almost every year. According to the 2001 Agricultural Land Act, the government has made it possible for the legal followers of social-owned agricultural companies to achieve so-called "the" so-called ". priority concessions. In doing so, those agricultural companies had to prove the right to follow-up of former social-owned picks. Furthermore, they had to prove that they were in possession of the land and were constantly using it. The contracts were concluded at the starting price by direct contract for 10 years, 25 years for permanent plantations and 50 years for olive groves. In this context, the difference in the lease concession was due to the fact that the initial price was auctioned at the tender and could be twice as high as the initial price, while the priority concession was awarded at the initial price. As a result, there were differences in the price of the lease or concession depending on the period when the contract was concluded. Clearly, this raises issues of inequality. Equivalence of the lease and concession price is possible if contracts provide the possibility to change the price of leases and concessions. However, it is now a legal issue. Can there be unilateral changes in the contractual price of leases and concessions or may only be carried out when those contracts expire? Only the question of revaluation of the lease price and concession is possible according to the legal provisions of 2008 and this is the objective of preserving the value of money through a certain period of time in the event of inflation, deflation and the like, rather than by equating contracted amounts of the lease by all forms of availability to state agricultural land which have been reached under certain regulations at the time. In order to address this issue of equating the price of leases and concessions for the future in the new amendments to the Agricultural Land Act, we will seek to improve the provisions on the revaluation and uniformisation of rental prices and concessions of agricultural land for future contracts. This means, in each future contract, this reform government intends to introduce clauses that will regulate it. These are our changes we want to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7376	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I know you're upset that you haven't seen each other in a long time, so you talk to each other a lot, but I'm asking you nicely to let the speakers say what they're saying, to those who ask questions to hear questions, to those who answer to their answers. Dear Representative Shandor Juhas, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7377	Well, I'm not happy with the answer because I haven't heard half of it, so I'd like to ask these colleagues to keep their voice down. I'm not happy because I still don't know how he's gonna make it up to the Municipality of Bilje somewhere around 3 to 4 million kunas a year. I'm not happy because I don't know how they're going to make up for the Municipality of Vineyards about 4 million kunas. I'm not happy because I don't know how he's going to make up for Draž Municipality somewhere around a million kunas a year, etc. Not to list all the other municipalities in Baranja. It's huge money for their budgets. It's nice to say that the country is our wealth, it's nice to talk about us living in a Pannonian plain in one of the most favourable parts of a man's life in the world, it's nice to say that the country is our wealth, but that's not so. These municipalities, these people who live there, have less and less benefits than that. There is an enormous depopulation of the area. I'll just mention one thing to you that within three years in the White Manastir, the number of students in elementary school with 800 fell somewhere out there to about 540. Not to talk again about other municipalities where the integration of classes, etc., etc. If we look at other parts of the Republic of Croatia that do not have land, which have something else, which have some other wealth, then they are scattered, and then we who work there from morning till tomorrow watch as they receive 10 thousand kuna in Vir Municipality, to share scholarships for students and students who study there do not know me in Zagreb, Split etc. That there's a certain social standard. We see that in some areas, free kindergartens are provided, free schools are provided, etc. And then we can just sit there and cry. We have nothing there and therefore we need to reform the country's lease to achieve a real price that is on the market and paid for by others.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7378	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi and it is directed to Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic. Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7379	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister, Mr. Oreshkovic. The National Foundation for Supporting the Student and Student Standards shall hold an invitation to grant each year. Last year, a tender for the 438 scholarship was launched in February. Scholarships are assigned to 6 categories. One category is intended exclusively for members of the Roma national minority whose education depends on these funds and more than other categories of students, given the particularly poor situation they are normally in. The same competition for this academic year hasn't been opened yet. I've already tried to get an answer from the competent Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, unsuccessfully. As unsuccessful as the Roma students are trying to contact the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard. How I failed to get an answer, Your Honor, Prime Minister, is the question I'm asking her. Why this year's scholarship contest has not been opened today for students of the Roma national minority and how the situation will be resolved. I point out that members of the Roma National Minority are giving up on continuing their education because they cannot cover the cost of studying without this scholarship. And it is very well known that we are already in the middle of the academic year and the competition is not yet called. Given the above, I wonder whether members of the Roma national minority next academic year may exercise the right to two same scholarships or whether the government will influence the urgent resolution of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7380	The Honorable Prime Minister, Tihomir Oreskovic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7381	President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives. Thank you for asking, I know that we have had the opportunity to find ourselves several times in the government and I know that for you in general when it comes to education for Roma one key, I would say... And I respect that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I know that I've talked to Minister Sustar, and we've often talked about exactly what we're offering, and how we can even increase what we offer, not just to the Roma, but to all minorities. This particular question, I know we've talked about this a lot, not only with Minister Shustar, but also with the Minister of Finance for a few questions. ... appropriations in the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that... We do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And specifically, and now I may not be gonna hit the dates exactly, but when it comes to this particular case, I know that last year... The foundation that was agreed to share these scholarships resigned, I mean somewhere now or seven or eight months, I don't know exactly but the position was open and unfortunately, the former government is not that position that is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They changed and they're not our new... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So basically nothing happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately. And now the situation is what it is. The students unfortunately didn't get these scholarships, not just Roma, but the number you mentioned. So you can expect from this government, and we've been doing it these days, and we've been a little commenting that we're going to start procedure as soon as possible. And if it's not now... which will now initiate this procedure then through the Ministry we will find the first funds... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we're gonna run a new competition so we can split those scholarships as soon as we can. Not just scholarships and then pay off those scholarships again. So this government will react quickly. If there's one, I'll give it to you. If you don't have a solution in a month, you can contact me directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7382	Thank you. Honorable representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7383	I must tell you that I am not satisfied with your answer because your answer does not give clear information when students and members of the Roma National Minority will receive a scholarship that is, and the necessary need to continue schooling, and which are particularly highlighted in the reports on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of the National Minority. Such reports do not show that students and members of the Roma national minority actually finance their own education. And with great delay, they get scholarships that belong to them. Your answer in this regard does not answer the key part of the question, and that is when students and members of the Roma National Minority as well as all other categories of students covered by these competitions will be able to continue their education uninterrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7384	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7385	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Tomislav Karamark. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you like to call your government reformal, but of these reforms we haven't seen an R. Except for the announcement of cuts and valley tears that you fill and exactly where citizens are the most socially sensitive. And speaking of social sensitivity, you yourself in the pre-election campaign as the most sound promise kept your promise of support for a thousand euros for each newborn child. Here's what it looked like to remind you. So a thousand euros for every newborn child. It's the middle of April. The budget's been passed. Backup's still gone. And where did we come from? One measure that should have solved all the demographic problems of Croatia has become a general joke. Here's what it looks like, look. The Internet is full of this, this sort of thing. So I would ask you to answer me, clearly and unequivocally, is it a voter delusion when we talk about this support, or are you simply unable to come up with a model on which to pay these fees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7386	Thank you. Here you go, they'll answer... Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7387	Thank you very much for this question. So what do you say, look, the government's been there for two months and something. You were four years old, so you really didn't do anything on this plan, so social sensitivity is zero. We promised a thousand euros per newborn child, yes, that's true. We've also secured 100 million kuna funds for it. So since 1.9, it's likely to start, we need to pass a more adequate law. So, indeed, the government is socially sensitive. And believe me, the reform government is, yes, but in such a way that the reform is felt by those who deserve it and not by those who need it and the poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7388	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7389	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you know what the old Latins say? A promise of crazy joy. Apparently, the money's secure, but there's no support yet. Oh, well, here's the thing. If you really want to implement this measure and if you really want one serious and systematic solution, I suggest you take a look at the legal proposal on parental fees sent by the SDP in the procedure two months ago, put it into debate, adopt it, and pay compensation accordingly when you are not able to design the model yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7390	The next question will be asked by distinguished MP Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7391	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents and Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. My question will be referred or referred to Professor Davor Romic, Minister of Agriculture. We are witnessing a series of activities recently carried out by the Minister of Agriculture, contacts he has made with associations and stakeholders in the agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia, and we are witnessing the situation in agriculture, so I am asking the question of the Minister of Agriculture which he intends to measure and activities as Minister and Government of the Republic of Croatia in the coming period to bring Croatian agriculture into a competitive position primarily family agricultural economies and all other stakeholders in agricultural production. In fact, through the talks we had with representatives of associations in milk production in the dairy sector, we have witnessed that at the moment these are losing a litre of produced milk over the kuna and that such a state is inadmissible and that an increasing number of OPGs are closing down production, shutting down farms. A similar problem is in meat production, in pig production, in cattle production where we witness unfair commercial practices that import lobbys on Croatian shelves put meat of questionable quality and about the price that I don't even talk about and our desire is to protect Croatian consumers from knowing what they eat, means more quality labelling and everything else that follows. Of course, the problem is also through direct support, we thank agriculture for the support, direct payments that are at this stage of payment, but we believe that this is still insufficient at the moment and that other measures and activities must be taken urgently, and for this reason I am asking the question of what the Government and the Ministry for the next period envisaged for the rescue of Croatian agricultural production, support for the OPG and protection of Croatian consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7392	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture, Honorable Davor Romic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7393	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, MPs and MPs, thank you for asking. As far as the situation in Croatian agriculture is concerned, we are fully aware that two of the most sensitive sectors are production and milk sector and pig husbandry. We also know that the big problem is with fruit and vegetables. We also know that these are the problems that have arisen as a result of global change and the situation in the European and global markets. First of all, I would point out that these are the consequences of the Russian embargo and some of the other developments happening throughout the EU. However, we must look at it in the context of what we need to do in our segment and therefore this reform government will do several reforms. The first and basic reforms we need to make are land policy reform. I must point out that in Croatia today we have more than 650 thousand abandoned agricultural land. The use of natural resources and natural resources are, one of the most important natural resources is land, we must change it through land reform policy and use it in a way that is effective and that agricultural production or agricultural producers have the same land at their disposal. The second thing we're going to do is reduce the fiscal and parafiscal burdens we're working on intensively. If we are to say that our farmers should be brought to the same level of instruction as our colleagues in the EU, then we must make a series of steps to ensure this. This means enabling investment in production at significantly lower interest rates, which is also what we are working on intensively. Bringing the legal framework of good commercial practice to all market participants is considered one of the major problems and the great measures we need to take to make those who are at present the most vulnerable and the most endangered are these agricultural producers that we have said today. I would also like to tell them that their association, their connection, is necessary in order to be stronger in that chain of trade and have a better position. To establish the organisation and development of producer organisations, this is one of the kinds because these same producer organisations can be co-financed from the joint rural development programme available to us. The amendment of the Rural Development Programme sets significant, better quality and more transparent criteria in relation to the competitions carried out. Today, we have major problems with implementation tenders because the European Commission is very much looking at it because it is the money of all European citizens and it implements procedures and measures to determine the exact situation and why there has been a stalemate. And finally marketing and promotion of domestic products. You today have had the opportunity to enter the Croatian Parliament to see how we will encourage those who should find themselves in a trade or on a tourist offer in the Republic of Croatia. We're promoting today, we're doing marketing to make them known, and that's the reforms this government is doing right now. I once again underline, a very sensitive sector of milk and milk products, I would say that they will feel in their wrapper this year that we have taken care of them anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7394	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7395	I thank the Minister for his reply. Of course I welcome the announcement of land reform. Here is the esteemed Mr. Juhas pointed out the problem and how much Croatian agricultural producer is that he manages these most important Croatian resources, agricultural land and, of course, through this reform, we need to speed up the procedures and allow the OPGs to circle their production to be competitive. I also welcome the announced amendments to the rural development measures programme, or the approximation through the regulations, and through the tender documentation to the OPGs that will enable even rural development, rather than the large companies to withdraw this money that is intended for rural development measures, and I suggest also that the possibility of helping family farms that have raised their own and developed their farm production through operational programmes, be it pork and bovine animals that are unable to repay loans in such a way as to help them in particular that among 325 thousand are blocked in the Republic of Croatia by a large number of family agricultural holdings. It is necessary to sit on the subject and discuss and find ways and through the amendment of the executive law and through other measures to help these producers restart their production and that Croatia has sufficient food production for its own needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7396	Thank you. The next question will be addressed by the distinguished representative Branimir Glavas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7397	Mr. Prime Minister, an unprepared or pre-arranged question with you. The dairy sector in Croatia is experiencing its most difficult moments and is threatening a total collapse with undetectable consequences for domestic producers, consumers and the entire Croatian economy. Every day family farms, small and medium suppliers and lately large farms of male cows fail. Following data on the quantity of milk delivered from 2006 to 2015, it is evident that despite the crisis in the sector, almost all EU members except Croatia, which is 21% below and Slovakia, which is 10% below, have growth in milk production, Austria for example plus 16%, Germany plus 19% and Poland plus 23%. With the help of their governments, EU member states have maintained their self-sufficiency rate so that Germany has 133%, France 137%, the Czech Republic 136% and even our neighbours, Slovenians 117% and Hungary 101%. These countries have increased exports of milk and milk products to other markets. Germany at 57% of its own production, Austria 64% and Slovenia 63%. And while in Europe active measures are fighting the crisis and helping its producers in Croatia during that period, 28,197 milk suppliers collapsed, the rate of self-sufficiency dropped to 59%, production fell to 513 430 tonnes and imports rose to 429 752 tonnes. For all of this and because of the increasingly difficult situation in which the dairy sector is located in the Republic of Croatia, I wonder if you have discovered the real reasons for the crisis of the dairy sector and what measures you have prepared and taken to save the dairy producer. In doing so, I do not mean the means to mitigate the crisis in the dairy sector that have been approved at EU level, which should have been paid off six months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7398	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7399	Thanks for asking. You know that these days I've been to Slavonia and I've had a chance to meet with the O.P.G.... a question about again perhaps for those who haven't heard. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] I've been in Slavonia these days, so I've been getting a little familiar with the situation specific to milk and the OPGs dealing with milk. But I can say that here from the EU we will withdraw the same funds, here in this quarter, when we look at last year, Croatia has withdrawn 100% more than last year at the same time as the OPG. Through investments, EU funds and other funds have been used. I am convinced that we will also help not only those who deal with milk but also these other OPGs. You know that we are not only through the used EU funds, but that here we will now open the same new fund for 500 million euros so that we can help these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to open up new OPGs and to expand. Because I think it's clear to all of us that we can't compete and we can't expand, we need to have one mass and we're working on it these days. I was back in Slavonia, here today was a great example dealing with honey where they joined together. I openly asked and said bravo, which way you are and has some positive synergy. They said it's true, it does. So I hope that we can work together in whatever way we can and provide new models so that we can compete. From this government here we will give everything we can to provide these funds either through this 500m-euro fund from the EU and from us that we can help these OPGs as easily as possible so that they can come into these funds and make this whole process easier. It's clear to all of us that we need to compete, and if we don't now go through technology and other systems, it's going to be harder, but on our part, we're going to do everything we can to speed it up and help with the competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7400	Thank you. Dear Representative Branimir Glavas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7401	I'm not happy with your response to the Prime Minister. It confirms that you know absolutely nothing about such a major problem of the Croatian economy. As Croatian prime minister, you should know that the real causes of the crisis in Croatia are, above all, the low purchase price of milk, the poor rules defining the quality of milk to the detriment of the manufacturer, the lack of measures to protect the market and the absence of a system of control of the quality and health of food products. And above all guessing import lobbys and malls. I ask you and ask you for a concrete answer as to how only the prices of milk should be allowed to fall in the Republic of Croatia at malls below 2.89 kuna with VAT while the sales price of milk from 5.71 to 6.79 kuna is in Austria. In France from 6.17 to 8.30 kuna, in Slovenia as much as 4.95 to 5.56 kuna compared to Croatia. Isn't that a direct guess for the import lobby? I ask you and ask for a concrete answer which allows the price of domestic product to be destroyed through a policy, directly causing damage to Croatian regions where milk production is the leading sector in agriculture, which is only in our county of Osijek-Baranja at 25% of the total production of the Republic of Croatia. In these areas, throughout history, it's been killed for every ridge, meadow and field, and do you think the people are stupid and that they don't understand what's going on in the agriculture sector? Do you think by continuing this kind of policy and not caring about Slavonia, they'll find an investor from the Middle East faster? If the destruction of the production of milk and food industry continues, the people will organise themselves and take drastic steps to protect their own production, which should be the national interest of each and these of your Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Oreshkovic, our people are silent and suffering injustice, but you should also be aware that in our people there is a key to dissatisfaction, so it is only a matter of days when the policy you represent will say enough. This will not only be a struggle to solve problems in agriculture, but rather for the survival of the Croatian people in those areas. And at such times, radical measures are being taken. You have very, very difficult days ahead of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7402	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Leon Žulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7403	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Honored Ministers, MPs and MPs. My question is Minister of Finance. On 24 December of last year, the Regulation amending and supplementing the Income Tax Regulation, as set out in Article 2 of the following Article, entered into force. Official travel within the meaning of the law and of this Regulation shall be deemed to be a continuous journey until 30 days. Such a provision presents a major problem for all our entrepreneurs operating with foreign companies because in most cases it is not possible to affect the length of the service route for reasons of customer requirements, coordination with business partners and the volume of work. On the official trip to distant countries such as Brazil, China or the United States, the price of the plane ticket is a significant item, so it is not a solution to return workers every 30 days and re-let them on the official route. After 30 days of stay on the official trip, our entrepreneurs are obliged to pay their workers additionally and taxes and contribute to an additional burden on already high fiscally burdened entrepreneurs. Such provisions and interpretations put our entrepreneurs in an unequal and uncompetitive position towards entrepreneurs from other EU Member States such as Poland or Germany. The duration of the official trip to Germany is considered to be a trip of up to 90 days uninterrupted. If the same goes for our entrepreneurs, we believe that it would be much more just and that our entrepreneurs would be placed in an equal position with all other entrepreneurs from EU Member States. The same question is also asked about the effect on the state budget, and on the other hand, there is a serious burden on entrepreneurs who provide services to business partners on the world market. We believe that further analyses should be carried out and only then propose solutions that have not only burdened but also confused entrepreneurs and employees who are posted abroad In most cases, another sentence [[Intruder: Thank you.]] In most cases, specialized equipment and technology installation workers produced in Croatia between partners from the EU are involved. [[Intruder: It's time.]] We ask that the previous solution where the length of the duration is... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7404	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7405	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So thank you very much for asking. The fact is that what you have stated in the very question is that amendments to and additions to the Income Tax Regulation have been made to one particular alignment in the definition of official travel with the Income Tax Act, which defines that official travel is an uninterrupted 30-day journey, which is also in line with the Labour Act and the Contribution Act. At the same time, however, the fact is that before these amendments and the addition of the Regulation, since it is not decided to state what is the limited period of time of official travel that employers have used for those examples abroad, practically untaxable amounts of diaries varying from country to country from 30 to 80 euros, of course, as defined. While at the same time we have a limited, or limited amount of so-called. A field supplement abroad to 250 kuna, that's the second instrument in the problem. This field supplement, i.e. its non-taxable part, as well as the non-taxable part for official travel in the country, in Croatia, is harmonised abroad and amounts to 170 kuna. With this in mind, and I continue not only to your question, but to certain suggestions and comments that have been received from individual employers, you have listed three countries. I have specifically received an inquiry and an example of the case of Japan where it is indeed a particular problem for employers. At the same time, however, it is very, so to speak, isolated and individual issues, and at the same time with the declared position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we will, of course, take steps both in tax and in some other systems to facilitate our business and general way of working in Croatia and our employers abroad. We believe that there is a need to make some alignments between the field allowance abroad and the official travel in order to make this field supplement virtually consistent in amounts as prescribed for journals abroad. In this way, we would practically remove the most practically this problem that you mentioned. In any case, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration will take care of this issue and make a very quick solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7406	Thank you. Dear Representative Leon Žulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7407	I thank the Minister for his reply. I think we all welcome every tax discharge from our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7408	The next question will be that of the distinguished representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7409	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Tomislav Karamark. Dear Vice President, you often like to point out that the former government was not socially sensitive, you just told colleagues Hajdukovic in one of your answers. It is known that the truth is not your favorite weapon but your public deception. And I would remind you that only one of the measures passed by the government was the Law on the conversion of credit into Swiss francs. This law made it clear how we feel about the use of Croatian citizens by foreign banks. I ask you how will the Croatian government react to the announced lawsuits of these foreign banks against the state and will you protect Croatian citizens or foreign banks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7410	Thank you. The Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7411	Thank you very much for that question. The Swiss franc, well, dear gentlemen, you have so resolved that you have burdened all the citizens with a billion euros in debt. The citizens will pay for it. It's not going to fall on the back of banks. We figured it out a long time ago. So that was your populist measure, was it? So we're talking to people who are at risk in the case of francs, we're talking, and we're sure to find solutions, but remember, you've burdened the country, i.e. taxpayers, taxpayers for a billion euros. You should give an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7412	Answer, distinguished representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7413	Here, I would be happy to remind you, Mr. Karamarko, that your party voted in favour of this law, and that this law has passed in the Croatian Parliament unanimously, so this, yours, this remark really doesn't stand. Also, all the measures taken to save certain groups are affecting us all, and this thousand-euro measure of yours will pay everyone for every newborn child, and what now. Now we're supposed to hit it. Let me remind you that there are 50,000 families who have come into debt slavery because you have not responded when you were in power in that period before us. We saved it and you're now making a populist statement that it's a blow to citizens' pockets. I hope that you will support the interpretation of the work of the government that the SDP submitted yesterday and that you will not first show that you are on the side of Croatian citizens and not those who pay you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7414	The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7415	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, sir. Tihomir Oreshkovic. On the occasion of a visit to Vukovar-Srijem County, you heard a number of problems, from burning unemployment, youth departures, farmers' problems, entrepreneurs. But there's potential. But how and how can the government help? Can we do it at all? Will something about these problems be bridged? How effective is Mayor God Galic's initiative on the establishment of so-called The government's Council for Development of Slavonia, which may not have received the right opportunity and support from the government in recent years compared to many parts of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7416	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7417	Your Honor, thank you for asking. First of all, I would say that I think the initiative from Mayor Galic is excellent and will have our support. I saw the situation myself, I saw the good and the bad side when I was in the county. You can expect this government, and you've already heard some positive results today, but first we all understand. I'm convinced the situation is difficult but there is potential in agriculture, in the economy, and through investment. We need as much investment as possible to withdraw. It was clear to me and I heard loudly how complicated it is to reach the European Funds and how we can withdraw them. That's where we need to work on it, then we can simulate the whole process, but I can again when it comes to young people leaving and we know that some 50 grand have gone out of this country that we need to stop it and that I hope that I will start young and come back. That's where I'd like to take advantage of two opportunities to help. I've already mentioned that startup concept and I think how we can start through the evaluation. We all know that if we go anywhere in the world we know what an applet store looks like and I wish we had in Osijek, in Rijeka, in Zagreb, in Split a start-up centre and young people can come up with some kind of information where they can run this new initiative, like I can make a quality business plan, like I can get a loan, and here I will go back to the question about the loan. The second is when we look at it, it's this... font I mentioned in that 500 million euros. We're going to pull back some 200 million from the European funds, 0 interest, there we're going to connect to HABOR and commercial banks so we can offer that 500 million some 3% of the interest we think we can compete with, and young people and others can run. Two examples, I've had a chance to get to know myself, a company called Trico, and that's one I can say very well by a successful family firm, and that might be some sort of average. These are our medium-sized entrepreneurs who started in the basement and this is the textile industry, the man started with his family and today has 250 employees. He asked a million euros to raise a loan, so he could increase that capacity, so he could hire another 50 people, and we know what a difficult situation is in the county, thank you, here's the defence minister who was there with us. Very quickly we started, the man today has these millions of good interest and won and will now be able to increase the capacity and even here in the company with whom he works are global global companies, good brands and it is again a good one brand for us. That's one side of the aspect. On the other hand, what I saw was a company called Nexus Company and Molti Norm and it's a company that deals.... So we see that again we can compete with companies that can hire and who have invested 33 million kunas these days that will expand and that is again a great story for Croatia. So, we know it's hard but we see again that we have this opportunity and that we can help through this initiative and the most initiatives come from these citizens of ours and we need and help here and I think we have shown a very short deadline that we are ready to take every step so that here we can increase the number of employees and reinvestment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7418	Dear Representative Maria Budimir. My colleagues, I beg you, I assume you're interested in the answers when you're already asking them questions and then let's be so parliamentary as to listen to the answers. Here you go, Comrade Budimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7419	Thank you for your response. I am pleased with the answer and I expect the results of your team's work to prevent an exodus of the population mainly from 5 Slavonian counties. For example, in this school year, 1,000 students were enrolled in Vukovar-Srijem County compared to the last school year. Slavonia has a big demographic problem, a Slavonia that used to receive and people moved to survive and now they're leaving. Our problem so far was the state's relationship to Slavonia. The bureaucratic spirit ate innovation, the former government did not create preconditions so that entrepreneurs could develop their companies as easily as possible... the current problem of complex documentation. [[You don't understand.]] An example of Smiljanic, a Vukovar company whose owner realised an investment called "Production of wooden crates" of almost 13 million kuna in the programme of increasing economic activity and competitiveness of young and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The company employs about 22 employees. On his experience on obtaining funds from EU funds, the owner himself says, I quote: "If he had not been planted with thorns as people say he was planted with broken glass." He applied to the pre-trial of this programme in June 2013, and the project was officially approved in November 2015. We have to stop this. It's not easy, but it's gotta end because Slavonia's going down, villages are disappearing. Just one very difficult situation. So unfortunately, young people are leaving us, convinced that success is based on knowledge and innovation can only be achieved somewhere abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7420	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7421	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Karamarko, said on a recent physical attack against a well-known writer, writer and columnist in Split, your minister, Mr. Hasanbegovic, literally said that this case also resembles the importance of responsibility for the publicly spoken word or the people's words, which he sought. In fact, he came upon the very trail of your pre-election promise when you promised Croatian citizens when HDZ came to power that everyone would be able to think what they wanted in their four walls. At home. In a similar style, Mrs. President of the Republic of Croatia addressed the Serb minority when she told them to watch what they were saying because they could throw out various pests and beatings. Are you aware of how dangerous it is when such messages are actually sent from the highest state level, essentially, against all those free-minded people, against all intellectuals, writers, writers, all those who have the duty to question them critically, criticise them, so if you want to provoke the state authority that it's very dangerous. Please tell me, answer my question if you are aware that in a society where antifascism is declared a floscule, the hands unfortunately become reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7422	The first Deputy Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7423	Thank you very much. What do you say? So, in your question, it's so untrue that I don't know what to actually answer. As far as physical attacks are concerned, we are absolutely against any violence. I hope the police find the unsub, if he hasn't already. As for the democracy, democracy of this society, pluralism, etc. Well, that's where we were clear. So we sit in this House with different thoughts and opinions on everything and even the past, on history and on the future maybe even. Therefore, I am deeply aware that we must continue to protect democracy and protect it. And the right that other people or we think differently from you or you from us. So, you've told a lot of lies, and I'd be done with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7424	Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7425	What was that lie I told? All I'm asking is that antifascism isn't being stuttered. You have performed, or promised, as great reformers, but so far your government has been particularly prominent only in the deformation of history. That's why I, Mr. Vice President, welcome you all ministers and Prime Minister himself, but I also welcome the Madam President to the death of fascism, freedom of the people!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7426	The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. ... /The noise in the hall./... My colleagues and colleagues may be able to allow a colleague to ask a question. Can we let a colleague ask a question? Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7427	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask my parliamentary question to the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social activities to Mr. Boza Petrov. Mr. Petrov, you said that additional health insurance should be collected for 19 kuna per shelf, which is what President of the Parliament said wasn't big money. In light of the fact, this means that you want to take 400 million kuna each year from their pockets for a million and 600 thousand citizens. This means if you want to be and stay in that by a million and 45 thousand state insurance companies, you pay your obligation and among them is 700 thousand poor people below the income price, you're also increasing yourself the cost of 250 million kuna. The collapse in public insurance has been due to the fact that over the past six years the state has not paid more than 850 million kuna, it remains in debt. This obligation is based on the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Instead of the state setting up its debt and that the system can function you want that money, that debt, to be transferred to citizens who have been regularly paying their supplementary insurance policy so far. I recall the charging of this policy by the public insurance company is 98.8%; there is no such charging company in Croatia. I'm asking you because you said you had to do it for solidarity, I ask you, please define what solidarity means to you in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7428	The Vice-President of the Government will respond to the esteemed Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7429	Your Honor. I'm really glad to hear what happened immediately and during the former government. I suppose he's familiar with that, too, and that during the former government, he's also not being paid by how it should be done. I thought it was even worse, it wasn't working, so it was just borrowing, living on credit, and it was nice. But at some point experience the bottom because you can't go on. So, personally, I'm not glad to have to raise an extra insurance policy. Raising any expenses is not my pleasure. But in a situation where you want to maintain a system like this and a solidarity that exists, if you want to move on no matter what those debts are, if you want to provide 900 thousand people with further insurance that the state can pay, if you want us to have such a medical system where we are, for example. European transplant leader and where our doctors do miracles and no matter what the conditions are, then unfortunately, this should be done. What I can say is, I'm not happy about it, I think the state will eventually make the net cost of living less than the reduction of parafiscal burdens. And besides, the part that bothers citizens the most about the imposition is the HRT fee. I believe there will be an analysis of the need for a level of such a fee. So in the end, the net cost of living for Croatian citizens will certainly be lower. And our solidarity will remain the same and medical system as strong and more stable than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7430	Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7431	Thank you very much. Only in part can I understand your arguments, so I'm not happy with the answer and I'm looking for a written answer on this subject and I'm going to ask you a further question in the end. And I'll tell you, you know what caused this announcement of yours, this announcement of yours? It has caused the aggression of private insurance companies now offering 67 kuna life insurance policies. But they only provide young and healthy. Over 65 years of age, no one will provide you or will provide you with another B policy but at a price of 150 kuna. Therefore, the decomposition of a public insurance company that rests on postulates of intergenerational solidarity is at work. Just know that private public health insurance companies pay you back between 50 and 55% of the funds they raise and the public insurance company pays you back 88% of the funds into the public system. Therefore, I ask you to answer me in writing this question of my own in the light of facts and not in the light of the assumption and to tell me once again what public interest means to you which you swore in an election campaign that I greatly appreciate. Because if you come up with a public interest here and answer honestly, you have my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7432	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7433	I'm asking the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Karamark. Official memorial is being prepared in Jasenovac, but it will not be attended by representatives of the victims. The Jews won't come, the Serbs won't come, Croatian anti-fascists won't come. They won't come because they don't want to be there with you and Hasanbegovic. They will not, for they have seen you, for they have despised you. Because they understood all the cynicism and all the dishonesty of your condemnation of fascism. The president of the Republic has been trying to condemn fascism for the last two and three days, but she can't hear Ustashas at the stadium in Osijek, neither can the prime minister hear them. That Ustasha roar doesn't even hear Vice President Tepeš when he and the Bujanac lead that 6 grand march for home-ready warriors against a 68-year-old... Ladies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Pupovac, your Millian Brkic tells Serbs if he doesn't feel safe here and you get lost where you'll feel safer. And the president adds to him, those who make threats and attack and deserve it because for years they challenge and provoke. You didn't answer a single word about it. So I ask you, Vice-President of this tragic government, how long do you intend to tolerate this sick, primitive return to the constitution, this Ustashophilia and so disgrace the Croatian state and the Croatian people?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7434	Thank you very much. I would just ask that we watch what words we use because the story of tragic governments and similar things are not appropriate, they are not suitable for this House. Here you go, Mr. Karamarko. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7435	Of course I don't want to start an answer with a story about a tragic opposition at this point, but when it comes to totalitarianism, we were clear. We condemned both Nazism and fascism and all the derivations but we condemned Communism. Every time someone condemns communist crimes, for example, you say we're against anti-fascism, which is not true. We're both anti-fascists and anti-Nazis and anti-Communists, anti-totalitarians, and that's our problem. I don't see a problem where there's an uprising, it really needs to be destroyed, but you don't see betterism all around us, I'm sorry for Yugoslavia. So, sorry about the Bolshevism, sorry about communism. Mrs. Ingird, I would respect and respect your greeting if you had said and completed the death of fascism, the death of communism is death to all totalitarianism and freedom to all the nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7436	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7437	First, President of the Parliament, Article 33 of our Rules of Procedure, is not your place to correct the speaker. You don't have that right. Yes, I called this government a tragic one and you called it our government not a folk for four years, and I didn't notice you rebelling, I didn't notice. [[Intruder President: A fellow Stazic is not up to you to discuss with the chairman.]] Is that because of you? [[First, I didn't do it, second you laugh at me. I give you a warning. /]] I see you didn't like my call to antifascism so much that you had to give me a warning. Look, Deputy Prime Minister, British historian David Irving, 2006, was sentenced in Austria to 3 years in prison for relativating the Holocaust. He then said and be careful what he did in a speech in Austria in two speeches in 1999. He said I don't understand why he's after me now, because of something that was 17 years ago. Like Mr. Hasanbegovic. They're similar in that. What are they different about? The difference is that for such a person going to prison in Austria and in Croatia he becomes minister at the proposal of Tomislav Karamark and his HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7438	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7439	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, respected colleagues, fellow MPs, respected ministers and ministers. So, as I come from Slavonia, proud of the proud Slavonia, which unfortunately is so humiliated, so used back 10 years all with the aim of satisfying some interests, some interests that I don't understand. My logical question today is addressed to the respected Minister of Agriculture, Mr Davor Romic. So, ministers, the agricultural product market is in the worst state in Croatia in the last ten years. The buying-in prices of primary products are the lowest so far. Prices of finished products in stores are actually even lower than those of ransom prices. Are you offering some kind of concrete solution to help this sector die out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7440	Dear Minister, here's your farm.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Parliamentarians, MPs, thank you for your question. Croatia has joined the EU and has become part of the EU's common market and of the common agricultural policy. Currently, the situation in the EU's agricultural product market is extremely poor and I have pointed out this several times already. In particular, two sectors, the dairy sector, the pigmeat sector. I also said the reasons why this happened, what happens with the production of milk in the EU, the removal of quotas, the prices of milk in the EU are increasing. Normally that applies to only a few states. For all other countries, milk problems are extremely large. However, I should point out that we have measures to do so. We are part of the EU, and as such we must be in a place where certain policies are adopted. I will point out at this point that the policy on the EU's common agricultural policy is taking place in Brussels as a minister I will actively participate in all the actions that are taking place in Brussels and there to present the problems that are happening in Slavonia, which are happening in Dalmatia, means I will be an active participant in these policies. When it comes to the measures we need to take. I'll just remind you what happened this year when it comes to, it's a sensitive sector like milk. I've heard here today several speakers who mentioned the problem of milk and milk, so I'm going to compare 2014 and 2015 to tell you that for this very sensitive dairy sector this year we've provided almost 100 million kuna more than in 2014 when we talk about productive years. What's this about? It is the production-related support for dairy cows paid with extremely sensitive milk cow sectors, which for 70 million kuna is more direct aid measures for that sector, which amounted to 27 million kuna. Agricultural producers not to passively but actively participate with the ministry not only because of the form but because of the real solution to these problems I will be the minister of all Slavonians, all Croats and they will be represented in Brussels and as far as the additional measures we are preparing are concerned, it is a policy that is related to the unfair commercial practice in which you are currently warning. Together with the Ministry of Economy we are working on this programme that will fix the traceability and positions of individual market participants and please tell Slavs that this government will be with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7442	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rose Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7443	However, I believe that there is an extremely serious job ahead of you, a big job that you will not be able to do on your own, so here we all are, hopefully other fellow MPs, available because their help will be very welcome. The fact is that in this situation we have neither brought ourselves nor found ourselves in it by chance, so the passivity of the former governments and the disrespect of this production has actually led us to the situation that we have lost young people, without persons of employment, and this should not have happened. Here I sincerely hope that through these measures we will stop this exodus, stop the collapse of family economies, bring life back to the country and thus bring hope back to a better future, and also help get out of this economic crisis to the whole country of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7444	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7445	Dear President of the Parliament, my dear Prime Minister. Last time, my question was referred to Mr. Oreshkovic as Prime Minister, last time you were here in the Parliament, our club asked you what you were planning to privatize because we see that substantial funds are foreseen from the sale of state property. The last time you were in Slavonia, you said you were looking for 10,000 acres of land for a foreign investor whose name you didn't want to reveal. Since you are the prime minister of all citizens and are working in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, citizens are very interested in who you are looking for. It is clear to us, therefore, that we call you to transparency and openness in the management of public goods in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So I don't see what the problem would be to answer what foreign investor you're looking for the country for and actually tell us specifically. We watched a recent statement by Minister Romic where he said that the country cannot be privatised for the next five years, but you, in order to give a country you do not have to sell it, can rent it to a foreign investor when you are not already giving Croatian peasants then at least reveal the name of a foreign investor. And we're interested in what, if this investor gets that land leased, he'll shine on that land? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7446	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7447	Thank you very much for asking. These 10,000 have run a lot of issues, which I'm happy to say. I think it's important that we have some kind of discussion first. But to be clear, other investors come to me, not only to me, but also to ministers, and we can't give any names and we won't. Because since I've given you a name, once a name has been leaked, the investor has withdrawn immediately. So we all need to understand. I'm just gonna say the investor's from the Middle East. And nothing but the question, and Croatia has. That doesn't mean we're gonna sell, we all know we're not gonna sell our land. But it was very clear to me, it was in my best interests and general that we had a chance. And there are 10,000, we know it's hard to get to 10,000. But maybe here, and today I heard and maybe that's one of my goals I'm going to say, something I learned when I was in Slavonia, nobody likes that word cooperative. Well, then let's call it a cluster if that sounds a little nicer. All these questions I've heard today are somehow spinning like this, how can we compete? I think it's clear to all of us that it's hard to compete when you have one hectare, two acres. And when our neighbors have 10, 50 thousand acres, maybe who knows. My question was very simple, I was looking for the way we could first maybe find a new model and that's why I went to Slavonia so I could ask and see what our options are. It is my goal that we can hire and exploit as many of our 800 thousand hectares as we have and which are not unfortunately used today. That 10,000 I see has started a lot of discussion, and one maybe my goal is that we can activate that land. And yet perhaps in a different way, we should start thinking. So the investors will be coming, I agree we won't be here right now, I didn't say we would sell or that this investor is asking to buy but there is an investor who would like to invest here. Then we could form a cluster, that's what we might be looking for, when I was in Vukovar I even asked, those who were at a meeting with me from the O.P.G. and other companies if we even had those options. Unfortunately, if we don't, then it'll be harder, but I think we need to see how we can start creating these clusters so we can compete again. And that was my main goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7448	Thank you. Dear Representative Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7449	Dear Prime Minister, I am not satisfied with the answer because you have not specifically answered the specific question. And your secrecy is speculative. Among other things, you act as an agitator of some foreign mega companies which are actually supposed to work in the interest of Croatian society. So, what you did until you became prime minister, you keep going. So you must be more open, more transparent and work in the interest of Croatian citizens. You must be aware if you are not aware that we have had painful experience in the past 20 years with privatisations, intransparency, openness and secrecy that has not brought any good to Croatian citizens. I was hoping that you wouldn't continue with this practice and I urge you to actually be the prime minister of all citizens and not keep information from the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7450	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7451	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will ask my question to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Oleg Butkovic. The Honorable Minister says I have the Ministry's name that you are responsible for both maritime and transport matters and infrastructure. A large and important area for the overall development of the Republic of Croatia, for the promotion and development of the construction sector for the creation of new jobs and for the creation of new values for the benefit of all in the Republic of Croatia. The government's past term of office in the area of infrastructure is only a failure. There was a lot of talk, a promise and a bit of prosperity. One project was specifically announced by the former government and this is the project of the river-Zagreb-Botovo railway. In four years of long announcements since the realization, we've had the following. First they announce that the railroad will be built by thousands of Chinese, and then nothing. Then the route changed and finally held 2, 3 contests out of which two failed for the Long Village-Criževci stock. My question to you, Your Honor, Minister. What happens to the project on the Dugo Selo-Križevci stock and will the work on this stock finally take place in 2016? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7452	The respected Minister Butkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7453	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I thank you for your question. Before I give you a concrete answer, I'll mention a few things. The design of that stock of Dugo Selo-Krysevci began sometime in 2009. In 2013, the first invitation to tender was opened. After that, there was a 2nd competition in 2014 which was also annulled. And here's three times as they say three times and God helps. On Friday, the state commission refused to appeal to one of the bidders and gained the conditions for signing a contract on the implementation and launch of works on the section that has been discussed for a long time. It's part of the Mediterranean corridor. It is a major, largest rail infrastructure project in Croatia estimated to be worth one billion and 500 million kuna co-financed by 85% of the European Union. The restoration of the existing track and the construction of a new one in the length of 38.2 km will shorten the travel time between Dugi Sel and Križevci from approximately 30 to 18 minutes. And what I'd like to mention is that the works will start after the contract is signed somewhere in the summer. This is a big step for the Croatian economy. This project will affect GDP growth, the revitalisation of the construction sector and the improvement of rail safety in Croatia. And to conclude, we're a month ago on the so-called. CEF reported a continuation of the project Križevci-Koprivnica-Hungarian border. So by the end of 2020, we would have a joint Zagreb with the Hungarian border, with a new renovated, modern railway line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7454	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7455	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm pleased with your answer, for that there are a billion and a half reasons, that's what you just said, so a billion and a half kuna. And if we didn't do it now, as you say, we'd probably lose those funds and then we'd still have to ask our own resources to solve it, so we're talking about nearly 3 billion kuna benefits for the Republic of Croatia. And another reason why I am satisfied is that we finally get answers to specific questions in the current hour because in the past term we have received mostly either insults or some adjectives, MPs and more or less we have always been dissatisfied. What I might be worried about is that we're making a promise without doing what the former government did. They promised us a lot of investment cycles. They didn't do anything. I'm just going to remind you in the energy of 8 hydropower plants, two thermo power plants, LNG oil exploitation and research, so the low-level railroad, so the Istrian Ipsion, so Yellow Lock, Križiste, did nothing. I don't think we should go that way, and I think that the biggest obstacle to that was the public administrations in public enterprises, the administrations in public enterprises, which are unfortunately here today. If they stay the same, I think we could be followed by a similar result in infrastructure projects. So I hope we make a move here because we need people who know how to work and who can build for this beautiful country of ours. And let the SDP deal with the past, let them sort their hats because they're not for the other one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7456	The next question will be asked by distinguished MP Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr Panenic. Dear Minister, please answer me what you have done or you will take action to address the extremely difficult situation in the business of Đuro Đaković in Slavonski Brod. On 14 April 2016, a meeting of the Supervisory Board of Holding "Djura Djakovic" took place in two days' time Thursday, where one of the points will certainly be a debate on the trust of the management of the company because its mandate expires, as far as I know in late April. I'm interested in, like, me personally and how all the citizens of Brod-Posavina County that you've given instructions to or you'll give to the Supervisory Board as the majority owner of this company in connection with this issue. And I believe you must be familiar with the disastrously poor condition and results in that company. The fact that this administration generated a loss in these 4 years of 225 million kuna and the Supervisory Board approved such a business. How do you intend to protect the interests of the owner, because we know that the state is now a majority owner, the interests of employees, their families, the citizens of Brod-Posavina County? I want to believe that your answer will be clear and unequivocal and that it will include certainly the shift of both the administration and the supervisory board because it would certainly seem so in all companies that are not in majority state ownership. With your answer, you must also take the fact that the current loss of the company is almost 50% higher than the underlying capital and we know that last year the recapitalisation was made and carried out in which the state invested 65 million kuna of taxpayers. Well, Mr. Minister, what do you intend to do with the management and supervisory board responsible for firing 320 people, for such enormous business losses and the collapse of our meth-restriction industry?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7458	Dear Minister Tomislav Panenic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7459	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected vice presidents, respected MPs and MPs. Djuro Djakovic is one of the companies that is in trouble, which has long-standing problems and we can say that after 2013 when the losses of as many as 125 million kunas occurred, and we are all aware that in 2014 we had one of the few cases where representatives of workers on the Supervisory Board, as well as representatives of private investors, replaced the administration at the time. The loss was also shown in 2014 from an additional 96 million kuna. The restructuring process has been launched where here and you yourself have said the funds and the state have been invested and, of course, this is under special attention too, as is the minister and so are the people who are working on it and we communicate with the current administration. This year, according to government announcements where both signed and signed contracts are planned to increase revenues to 700 million kuna and achieve first profits after 7 years, so 7 years there was no profit. For now, what we've been communicating and I'm very often in contact with them, there's been a restructuring going on according to the plan that's been adopted. In the next period and of course in order to strengthen the effects of the restructuring plan, a new Supervisory Board will be appointed to which we want to make clear guidelines and that this restructuring process is implemented in quality and then we can and after that make a decision, a strategic decision on how to continue to manage the company, whether it will remain in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia and how we will deal with companies that are as well as what is of strategic and special interest. Therefore, my decision at this time will be certain that and not to appoint a new Supervisory Board which will provide clear guidance, as well as management and powers, in a short time, to decide whether this existing administration is implementing those guidelines, if not also accessing the selection of new members of the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7460	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7461	Thank you very much. I cannot fully be satisfied with your answer because you are not likely to fully consider the importance of this issue or the importance of the problem within Đura Djakovic and the economy of Brod-Posavina County because our say-so-principle economic activity should be precisely a metal-processing activity that would be the driver of all the events in our county. But that's why we have the material to say human resources, but unfortunately it's not because at the head of this most important branch I say we have the administration that has done these results in which you have said something. I must say, 2014 was a loss of 93 million and 2015. 60 million kuna. I certainly amnesty of some of the previous administrations that have led to Đura Djakovic's weakness, but this special administration has just shown itself that it has not taken care of neither resources nor employment, almost one quarter of the people in this restructuring have been fired, the situation has not improved. The state has invested additional funds and these jobs that they are now contracted by all those who understand little know that these transactions are only agreed for the purpose of obtaining Evans to overcome this liquidity situation and that these transactions will continue to be lost. It covers the pay of workers and everything else from these new contracts and they will end up like these jobs. According to my knowledge in the first quarter will be the loss of 11 million kuna and for this year I will not be long and the time for reply expires, but I think, Mr. Minister, the time for economic recovery and the rescue of Djura Djakovic's economy in Brod-Posavina County, so here I am asking you to do everything. You inherited it but to do everything possible to bring to the head of this company a government that will generate profit and which will therefore develop the economy of Đura Djakovic and Brod-Posavina County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7462	Thank you. The next question will be asked by MP Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7463	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Boza Petrov. Dear Vice-President, the Patriot coalition and the Most Independent Lists signed an agreement on co-operation on the reform government. This agreement has obliged you to form a reform plan within 60 days where you will present all your promised reforms to the public. Besides that deadline long ago, you haven't announced or done anything since the reforms, but you've started hitting on the weakest layers of our society. You tried to lift the subsidy of school transport but under public pressure gave up on it. You've reduced 100 million kuna compensation for the most socially endangered. You increase additional health insurance, announce health privatisation, announce an extension of the working week, lift funds for non-profit media, replace people in the media, scare civil society, strengthen political extremism and what is currently not known about the curricular reform. My question would be when we'll see that reform plan you announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7464	The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Bozo Petrov will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7465	Dear Representative, it is an extraordinary honor for me when you address me just because the SDP has negotiated with us and when we have spoken with HDZ and we have brought together this list of reforms that you signed together with us and it is identical to the list that we have brought to us in the first five weeks means both the SDP and the Coalition of Croatia is growing which the Patriot Coalition and MOST have signed 100 pages of identical moves to be made. So here I remind you it's one of the public documents on the Internet that you can check. And besides, you'll get the government's official document I believe in the next 15 days that is being made, which is what you signed to agree on. That's why I expect 100% confirmation here in Parliament that you agree with these reforms. As far as the transport itself is concerned, I'll tell you for a moment if you saw the amendment you saw, too, that it was the amendment of the Government, that we are not in favour of abolishing these transports and that this will be corrected. It will also be resolved for the end of the year, but some other measures. The problem is that you haven't solved certain things, and I'll just have one thing to look back at the previous question, and it's also related to the supplementary insurance that you mentioned. I wonder why the former government has given the possibility for those employed in the state sector to go to a private insurance company and thus the public insurance company to lose money? That's the question you need to ask yourself. And I'll just say the final thing, you never judge a step if you don't see the whole picture. And when the former government led with Mr. Lalovac to implement the beginning of the mini tax reform, I then said, as mayor, I welcome the first move, if it will only be the first in a row. When you made a populist move, you took some of the money by local self-government and raised 50 kuna wages to the citizens, but you care about it. I hope this government doesn't stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7466	Thank you. Dear Representative Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7467	Thank you very much. So here I can't be satisfied with the answer I got, I'm satisfied basically because I knew what you'd answer, that you'd be responding demagogue. You're a member of the government, a third man in this government, and you're in charge of reform. Don't call the SDP now what we signed or didn't sign. If you were serious about your reforms, they would be in the budget, they're not. Thank you very much. Get to work!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7468	The next question is the esteemed representative Maria Klobučić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7469	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Prime Minister, vice presidents and members of the government. I would like to refer my question to Mr. Hasanbegovic, the Minister of Culture. It is known that the Croatian historical museum is located on the Upper city in a completely inadequate space that does not allow permanent museum layout and thus its primary function. In 2007, a move initiative was launched and a former TDR space was purchased as the site of a new museum. In the hope that the City of Zagreb will win next to the Museum of Contemporary Arts and Other Museums another representative museum that will enrich the tourist offer, I am interested in the following, what has been done about the Croatian historical museum since your appointment? At what stage is the move of the museum, is this space that was bought for that purpose even meaningful? Also, I'm interested in future steps during the Croatian History Museum project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7470	Thank you. Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7471	Dear President, distinguished MPs, before I specifically answer your question, allow me to present in a few sentences the very genealogy of the problem of moving and building a new Croatian Museum of History. As you said in 2007, the Ministry of Culture concluded a contract with the ADRIS Group on the purchase of the former tobacco factory Zagreb for the purpose of building a new Croatian historical museum. The purchase was made, the Ministry of Culture paid 9m and 800,000 euros for the purchase, and in 2010, the Republic of Croatia was registered as the owner of this property. Prior to that, a local and construction permit was issued in 2008. Meanwhile, some talks on the introduction into the PPP project joined. The view of this ministry is that this project cannot be an object of any experimentation and that it is a strategic state project. After that, especially after 2012. My esteemed dignitaries, Honored Professor. Zlatar Violić and Honored Professor In fact, the Shipus did not show any particular interest in the matter. This was on the margins of their cultural policy consisting of, among other things, the creation of a sophisticated clientelistic network that would be difficult to trace and Sherlock Holmes, and other than declarative anti-fascism, we had examples of selective financing of part of non-profit media or of cases that we could read about these days of cash reaching from the official cards of the Ministry of Culture, buying sunglasses, matches and cigarettes through the official card and on the expense of taxpayers. They woke up from their winter sleep for a moment in 2013 when the Ministry appointed the body of pretentious title of the Croatian History Museum project at the head, which, based on the established criteria, stood up as an expert outside the Ministry of Culture and which, of course, is in accordance with the bad Croatian customs for its work, i.e. I hate getting a fee. The only concrete measure of this management of the Croatian History Museum project was that from 2013, when for completely unclear reasons, when a change of the already approved project was approached, the project was complemented and the copyright issue was raised. In the meantime, of course, because of the lack of work in August 2015, a power building permit expired and this is the condition we found. Please just one more sentence. So the Ministry went back to the original project. By the end of the year, we want to obtain a powerful building permit, and in 2017 finally after 4 missed years we will go after concrete works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7472	Dear Minister, time is up and I ask you all to hold on to our time. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7473	I thank Mr. Minister for this argumentation, and this was actually a gene of a problem that lasted, which has been happening for the past 10 years on that cultural scene. You listed all these problems individually, and I wouldn't explain them further. Unfortunately, in the end, we came to this situation that this building permit expired and that you can't actually do anything about it anymore. I commend this initiative that you will go that way again so that this building permit can be found both locally and all others so that this museum can be opened together in the capacity of citizens or anyone else in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7474	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Stipe Petrina, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7475	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would ask you not to let such failures happen, so the Rules of Procedure apply to all debaters equally, because we are all the same here and that we are not allowed to exceed the time of even 25%. I'd like to ask you if this applies to all MPs, as well as members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7476	I hope you've heard that I've warned the esteemed two or three times. You can't discuss it with me, I'm warning you the same thing, read the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Petrina: It's not enough just...]] I warned a respected minister two or three times in time. Unfortunately, I had to warn other colleagues about it, too, so of course I'll do it in the future. Now we'd go beyond the next question and that's the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7477	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question will be addressed to the Minister of Justice although it could be addressed to the Minister of Finance. The issue concerns the Executive Law because today we have 300 thousand citizens who have been blocked by an account without any legal protection. They and their families are being taken away today. They're on the road without any rights. The law legalized the robbery of Croatian citizens. That's why he was taken away from them and pride and dignity. It's allowed for foreign savings credit cooperatives to take interest in our citizens' interest rates and interest rates. The main and most important thing that hurts our citizens is 90 thousand of those who have been completed because of Croatian broadcasting, public television. Not because of the debt of 200 kuna, but because of the debt of 200 kuna, which turns into 1200 kuna, because the public notebooks and lawyers share that 1000 kuna hack, which means 500 percent more than the debt of real. And they are now creating public notebooks and lawyers creating their own empires at the expense of those citizens who are done, at the expense of those citizens who can no longer return to normal life because of what they're doing, they're pensioning 2,000 kuna, taking them 1,500 kuna for 200 kuna. Mr. Minister, what are you planning and what are you going to do about the Executive Law and when will it stop and help these fellow citizens to stand at the end of this harbinger?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7478	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister of Justice, Mr Ante Sprlje, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7479	Your Honor, your questions are always very specific and difficult. There's a lot that's been missed to do over the past 10, 20 years. Unfortunately, few who compare a 300 figure with a few thousand blocked with a number of nearly 300 thousand unemployed. It's one of the key issues that isn't even the issue of the executive law. However, the executive law will soon adapt to the real situation in the country. But it won't solve this problem of citizens' poverty either. But one thing you've seen very well, HRT 90,000 dots. Something's a little bit like a bigger number to me. I've been doing some sort of analysis since I was a judge in this problem, and I can tell you that about 50 million kunas of Croatian citizens pay only to law firms for these HRT performances. HRT has legal services. The performances sent by HRT are very simple. They are done by patterns that anyone with medium professional training can do. That's my responsibility. Therefore, there should be no great philosopher nor much legal knowledge but these performances are unfortunately given to law firms that then give, of course, the legal tariff it must be paid and it is at an annual level somewhere around 50 million kuna. That's something to ask HRT as a public institution, one question. We should consider whether HRT is a public institution to protect citizens' interests in all areas. We don't need to hire a huge number of people in HRT to make HRT itself do those errands. It's something that we need to think about here in this House because it's not a question that will be decided by the Minister of Justice, it's a matter that we all have to make a decision together. It's not too expensive for HRT. I responsibly argue that the HRT calculations that he gave that it would cost HRT so many people, so many and so many amounts that that amount was less. I'm saying again, I've done some calculations, and it doesn't take that much money to get HRT to do it on its own. These are simple executions, and Croatian citizens would be very much helped. We have missed a lot of time in the last 20 years without protecting Croatian citizens from illegal loans from abroad, from Croatia from everything. I think we need to reach a consensus on how we can help Croatian citizens reduce these costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7480	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7481	Dear Minister, I would like to agree with you that HRT as a public service of the people's service, to work for the citizens, to capture them, i.e. He's pulling into debt slavery one of the big problems, and when we say 90,000 subscribers, then we're talking about 90,000 families. It's a much larger number, this one public television, all of it happening, I agree with you because you're tired of being left in power or right in previous periods. And I know that before this government, it's not easy work. But this can be solved by one move. 3,000 people to work on HTV, so there must be 200 lawyers. What are they doing? Why would 1,000 kunas take away our citizens' offices and public records for 2,000 kunas? That's why I expect you and the entire government to deal with this problem urgently, and all because of these people, 90 grand who have been blocked, and now they're looking for bottles in garbage cans to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7482	Thank you. The next question of the distinguished representative, Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7483	Dear Prime Minister, I have a question for you. You have announced reforms, decentralisation is an inescapable part of reforms that must be implemented as the end of the transition process and exit from the economic crisis, from the social crisis in which we are all together. Decentralisation should be carried out because of economic recovery, investment, better availability of resources and a better standard of citizens. The aim of decentralisation should be cheaper, faster and better quality service for citizens if set well. The simplest way I can represent benefits of decentralisation is by affecting the reduction of population eviction, especially of young people. The concentration of power, money, relevant institutions is in Zagreb. Many young and educated people are forced to move from their local community to achieve employment, organised a quality life. If not outside the borders of Croatia, then in the capital of Zagreb. On the other hand, giving greater powers to fiscal autonomy to local authorities and centres, municipalities and cities would have the possibility of greater efficiency, greater impact on investment withdrawal, job creation, the creation of an appropriate standard of living, and so young people would have the opportunity to achieve their life goals and their living needs in the community where they are grown up and in the community that has invested in them. Dear Prime Minister, the question for you is: When do you plan to start and within what deadlines do you plan to implement the decentralisation process?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7484	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7485	Your Honor, thank you for asking. I agree on decentralisation. I'm always that less is in one way more when it comes to... states and I can say that many countries in the world are already and therefore, by our side, when the question of decentralisation is already being put in motion, at least here's the public administration, we've already launched three measures, because maybe you already know, here we've looked at the way we can match here today, for example, some of the functions that are in the municipalities and that the government is also running today. We have already launched a procedure in which we will transfer that responsibility to the municipalities and so we can do what you just said that we can speed up those investments and that's also the key to us. If we want to start this GDP, and if we want to speed up those investments, I agree 100%. We all know at the end when it comes to the community, to the city, there's what they say... what they say, and that's where we need to speed up that whole process. So information, maybe another measure when we look at this question, reform, that same thing, here today I met with the president of Estonia who one of me would say a golden example of a small country using that information so that we could increase these efficiencys. The government has also launched two of these programmes and this is this E-Build and Entrepreneur. So we can also speed up these procedures so that we can easily get to the permit and other information so that we can speed up those investments again. When the issue of this fiscal economy is in the long run, I just might say that we should consider going in that direction. I agree, I think we should go that way, but at this point I think we need to balance the whole system a little bit. But when it comes to this government again, when it comes to reform and investment here yesterday we saw that our forecast and the IMF on growth around almost 2% is a positive indicator. Other reforms will further show that we will reduce our deficit. And all together I am convinced that it will have one positive result and through these other reforms in the public administration I am confident that we will speed up these investments that will bring additional value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7486	Thank you. Dear Representative Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7487	Dear Prime Minister, first of all, I thank you for your reply. You mentioned at the beginning of your response to public administration reform and at the end of your response you said about functional and financial decentralisation that we should wait. Since you come from the real sector, I think you understand very well, and you know that partial solutions are never good. Croatia needs complete solutions, Croatia must not be satisfied with the administrative level of decentralisation. Croatia needs essential, content, sustainable and long-term good decentralisation, which includes both functional and financial decentralisation. Croatia is a rigidly centralised state. Croatia has become a full member of the EU and in the European political system, strong local self-government is a key element of development. Without decentralisation of essential and content there is no economic recovery, no investment, no quality availability of resources and no better quality living standards. We are here because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we must influence their standards. And in the very end, I would like to remind you personally of your sentence when you represented the government and said that key reforms should include, above all, open debate and reach as wide a consensus as possible. 2016 for Croatia is a year of responsibility that should finally be accepted. Therefore, in good faith and in my intention, I suggest we finally open up a public debate on decentralisation because it is necessary and necessary and we are looking for this important topic as wide a consensus as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7488	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7489	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I welcome the Honorable Prime Minister and all the ministers. My question goes to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Karamark. Mr. Karamarko, after an emergency procedure, the director-in-chief of HRT was removed from the temporary director Siniša Kovačić, whose only task was to open a tender for the new head director, accepted the conduct of cleanups and shifts in the real Orbanovic, Erdogan or Stalinist manner, you chose which one is your favorite, the editors of the Information Programme and the Dnevnik, Croatian Live, were replaced by all journalists and show leaders who do not fit the ideological picture of TV as the HDZ sees it. The satirical show is abolished because it dares to criticise power, satire is declared hate speech, and true hate speech justifies satire. It is tragic that colleagues and colleagues have even removed the sports programme editor. Instead of the removed, of course, the reliable HDZ trustees and the verified party personnel who have only one public television task are brought in, the HRT is converted into the HDZ party bulletin. It is clear from the Deputy Prime Minister that what is happening on HRT has your blessing because you want to stifle the freedom of the media, to encourage the clericalization of Croatian society. But Mr. Karamarko, what I'm asking you do you know what year we live in today? This isn't Orwell's '84. and do you have the consent of Prime Minister Oreshkovic for what you're doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7490	Before answering the most respected first Deputy Prime Minister, you are now a colleague, I did not give you a reminder with the withdrawal of the word I was right to, you violated our Rules of Procedure of Article 240 when you compared some statesmen with Stalin. It is an insult to these statesmen, specifically the president of Turkey Erdogan, specifically President Orban. I ask you not to listen to such things in this House in the future. Please respond to the Honorable First Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7491	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Jovanovic, do you really remember four years ago that in a few days you replaced 40 editors on television when you came to the so-called. It's power, isn't it? So this speech can be freely transferred to that time four years ago, and it just fits. We want, as a viewer and as a subscriber, to want television to be a public service, to be a citizen service to be objective, not to be as party as it has been for the past four years. If it wasn't party, I'd say instrumentalized, not to be partyly instrumentalized for pre-election purposes as it has been lately. So, as far as the Stalinist methods are concerned, you've demonstrated what it looks like these four years. Don't let us go any further to explain it far away and we could talk a lot. So I'm not involved in setting up a program. I don't even know, here you know who's been removed, I don't know who's been removed. You're obviously watching and watching over it. But I'm saying, remember your methods from television, from the police, for example, from police SCOKE, etc., etc. The word Stalinism I think is more appropriate to each other's structure certainly not us. So I think you're in trouble, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7492	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7493	So, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, when we add, for example, the situation happening on HRT. The pressure on the Council for Electronic Media, particularly on Mrs Mirjana Rakic, while your support for a convicted cocaine dealer who pays various services with cocaine, when we add pressure to non-profit media, when we add pressure to all journalists and writers who ask unpleasant questions and think with their heads, when we add pressure to civil society associations or threats to theatre directors who do plays that you do not like, when we add the announcement of the censorship of textbooks from history, when we add your rude controversy with your Minister Orepic it is clear that they are slowly but surely coming about from your election campaign. How critical of HDZ will only be spoken within four walls because you have stated: "Who is speaking against HDZ is against the Croatian people.". It is clear that the threats of your Dujomir Marasovic are also being made here on the other side of the assembly that when HDZ comes to power, I will quote again the movement and all the non-comparable from HRT. You are the creators of this state, and this is exactly how you try to introduce Croatia into a totalitarian regime in which the government wants absolute control over the media, the repressive apparatus, police and secret services. But I'll do it again, we don't live in Orwell's '84, this is Croatia 2016, and for what you're doing, you don't have a mandate. So if you really are the vice president of the reform government, you take hold of the hand of your colleague who sits next to you and who you talk to all day on your cell phone, and the citizens care and try to help him stop wandering around the halls of the Bane Court because he's looking for his lost reforms. And catch up to the only reform you have complete curricula reforms to go... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7494	Thank you very much. The next question is the distinguished MPs of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7495	President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I refer my question to Minister Dobrovic and it concerns the entire city, all the people living in that city. In addition to being hard to live in Slavonski Brod, it is hard to breathe and the only thing that changes with time are promises and deadlines for this problem to begin. The air quality situation in the wider Slavonski Brod area is extremely bad. The population is exposed every day to air pollutants that come from neighbouring oil refineries from the Bosnian Ship. According to measured air quality data in 2015, there were other categories. Sulfur hydrogen, floating particles, however, increases in concentrations and nitrogen oxide, benzene, as well as sulfur dioxide. There is also a problem when the plant is in a remont because the polluting things come out uncontrollably through a number of dysfunctional discharges. As the oil refinery in the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not an EU member, is required to address this issue internationally. What can be done specifically at international level to force the competent authorities in the refinery as well as the Government of Republika Srpska to implement the modernisation of the facility and comply with environmental protection rules in the work of such plants. It is also known that the refineries expired the environmental permit they had and should be new with the stated commitments and deadlines. Therefore, please, where has the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of environmental protection and sustainable development reached? And what about the study of some air quality pollution in Slavonski Brod?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7496	Thank you. The Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection will respond to the respected Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7497	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honorable MPs and MPs. So this is a really complex issue and the Ministry of Environment and Nature is dealing with the problem, so intensively. You mentioned an agreement on environmental protection and sustainable development that has already been agreed in the previous administration, so between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have made an invitation, or a proposal for a signing term, since both sides now have the mandate or the power to sign, we expect an answer and almost signing. We believe that such an agreement will also help address this international problem. The other kind of work to solve this problem is the work of this Interstate Commission with which I must say... satisfied and we have taken certain steps to analyse a number of analytical data on air quality in Slavonski Brod. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And soon we will have one more detailed analysis where we will determine in an analytical way the responsibility of the refinery which we also believe will help us. We believe it is in the interest of our citizens in Slavonski Brod and also citizens living across the Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7498	Thank you. Dear representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7499	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer, but I also ask that the foreign minister, the health minister, be involved in this problem, because the citizens of Slavonski Brod are also citizens of the second order. We know how much this problem affects the health of our citizens. And certainly here we expect to approach as quickly as possible to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7500	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7501	.../Conversation subsequently turned on. I ask my question to the minister of social policy and young Mrs. Juretic. Your Honor, Madam Minister. No matter what during the former government in your ministry, the former minister spent more than 800,000 kunas on me needlessly for the education and adjustment of social care workers to adapt to the Family Law that was abolished. Over 7 million kunas have also been spent on a plan to modernise the social care centres that he has never revived. More than 10 million kunas were spent on consulting and external services of co-workers to prepare and implement projects that were highly professional and high-quality for employees of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. On the other hand, there is almost no amount of money withdrawn from EU funds for activities in the social care system. Since it is obvious and evident that the budget money during the former term of office was spent untransparently, unintendedly, arrogantly and wastefully. I'm asking you, Madam Minister, whether or not this will make it necessary to reduce the social rights of the users especially those whose assistance is needed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7502	Thank you. Ms. Juretic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7503	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and representatives and colleagues from the government. As far as the users of the social care system are concerned, we have repeated several times, and I would also like to point out this way that I would not want the Croatian public to be confused by constantly emphasising the abolition of some of the so far, we can say the fees or reliefs that were particularly threatened by Croatian citizens. We are also obliged to consolidate social benefits and all other fees and to establish a working group that will analyse all the benefits so far so that they can be granted more fairly to groups that are truly at risk. It is also often mentioned these days how much I manage to monitor in the media or reduce or abolish the child's allowance, so I would like to stress this on this occasion and ask the media in particular not to bid anything that is not yet in the announcements or decision yet. So, we are obliged to make an analysis of all the fees and justly distribute them to those who need them most. As far as the European Funds are concerned, the fact is that they have not been well used. These days we had an inter-resorial meeting at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. The funds are moving, moving and the European Social Fund and the Fund needed so that a tender for the European Social Funds will be opened by the end of this month and 5 months, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7504	Thank you. Dear Representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7505	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I'm happy with the answer. I'm glad that despite everything said and all the indicators that money was spent where it wasn't necessary. In spite of the fact that 40 million kunas were not spent in your ministry in 2015, which were provided by funds to participate in national contributions to the withdrawal of European funds that were to be spent in the part where the money existed and should be spent exactly where it was most needed, were not spent and was scattered elsewhere where projects could be implemented and prepared and implemented. Mrs. Juretic, I am particularly pleased about this, and I am sure that it is you who have been professionally helping those who are most needed for the next four years to understand socially endangered if, of course, we consider that the new Croatian government is highly socially sensitive and will do absolutely anything to protect those who need help, socially endangered persons with disabilities, our old and powerless. I thank you for your answer, and I believe that in the next four years the money will be spent where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7506	The next question will be that of the distinguished representative Joseph Bilarev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7507	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, Dr. Miro Kovac, the question is for you. After taking over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a very short time, you reminded a number of countries and made contact with the leaders there. Among them, you have specifically reminded almost all of our neighbouring countries but also a good part of the EU countries. I'm interested in how you evaluate these relationships, given that in the recent past we've had a lot of problems and open issues. I would like to know how Croatia will position itself on its environment. We are aware of your efforts to lead a policy of healthy and responsible, correct neighbourly relations with the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, how do you comment on the state of Serbia's negotiations with the EU and what is the position of the Republic of Croatia on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7508	Thank you. Foreign Minister Miro Kovac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Biliver, it is true that during this short period as a member of the Croatian government I visited almost all neighbouring countries, only the Republic of Serbia remained. I will do so after the elections in Serbia when the new government in Serbia is formed there. I'd say that in this short period of time we've managed to change the atmosphere, the atmosphere is much better now. The problems stay, normally it doesn't work overnight, but no more verbal duels and no more insults. No one from the Croatian government, the Prime Minister is here, the Deputy Prime Minister is there, no one is insulting politicians from neighbouring countries. So we're an ad rem as old Latina would say, so we're going to do real things, not personal, not homey things. So in BiH, we took a step. Soon we will have a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Council of Ministers, will sign the European Partnership Agreement and we strongly support the Croats in BiH. As far as Hungary is concerned, there is Minister Orepic, we have re-established the railway transport because he was interrupted during the autumn, meaning in the autumn of last year due to verbal duels at Zagreb-Budapest level. It's gone. As far as Slovenia is concerned, we have an arbitration agreement that is no longer in force for the Republic of Croatia but we have normal communication with the Prime Minister Mr. Cerar's colleague. The Madam President is in Macedonia today with counterpart Pablo and Mr. President of the Parliament is here with a colleague from the National Assembly. We normally communicate, it's me, my smallness with Mr. Erjac. As for Montenegro's constant support, Croats are there and represented in the state government, which is very positive. And we support them on our way to NATO membership. Italy, after 6 years we had a bilateral visit at the foreign minister's level, Mr Jandrokovic, so the last visit was in 2010, we did it again after 6 years. So we have one normal communication. We are now coming to Serbia, our government wants to have normal, healthy and quality relations with Serbia. That's why we need to have a healthy background. There's some things we need to clear up. I'm sorry that in the previous period, the former government failed to point out those things that are crucial in our relationship. We have some requirements that are legitimate, we formulate them as an EU member country, which is important for the Europeanisation of Serbia and for normal relations between neighbours. We ask that it be installed in a negotiating framework that Serbia fully co-operates with The Hague Court, that is the principle of rule of law. That's the famous chapter 23. Secondly, we ask that the interstate agreement on the protection of minorities is also respected and implemented. The Croatian minority in Serbia is not represented, and under the agreement must be represented. Croatia has implemented this agreement independently and has its constitutional law. The Serb minority is represented in the Croatian Parliament and does not depend on any coalitions whether someone is in a party, is a party with someone coalitiond. No, it is represented and we expect it to be done in Serbia as well. That will be, I told Mr Dacic when I saw him in Amsterdam, it will be a real sign that Serbia is not only implementing interstate agreements, respecting the rule of law, fulfilling international obligations but that Serbia wants with Croatian partner relations. And the third thing, clearly, is that we want to abolish or amend this law called the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. We want it to stop. Serbia cannot be a police officer for the whole of the former Yugoslavia, it is not acceptable, it is not in line with good neighbourly policy, it will have to change. And we will certainly support Serbia on the road to the EU under these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7510	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7511	Dear Minister, thank you for your response. I am very pleased with your answer. I believe that you will continue to work with commitment and responsibility and develop good neighbourly relations as well as relations with other EU countries and that you will continue to position Croatia well within the international community. As far as Serbia is concerned, I hope that Serbia will meet these conditions and that it will know the well-intentioned nature of our policy and that it will be able to pursue European countries' arrangements especially when it comes to relations with national minorities and I believe that this will not be an obstacle to them but rather to the contrary, a springboard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7512	Thank you. The next question is the distinguished representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7513	Mr. Prime Minister, since I'm coming from Osijek, I'll repeat because I think it's worth repeating, you were recently in Osijek for the football game of our team and Israel and you heard the whole stadium calling for home ready. If they told you it was an old Croatian greeting they lied to you. It's a Ustasha greeting. So you should have reacted, and you didn't. But it's only one in a series of Ustashas that keeps following us. You support your Minister of Culture Mr. Hasanbegovic, although he is not the creator of the truth, but is the main contractor for the promotion of the constitution and the historical audit of the constitution. And not only that, but the first vice president in your government Mr. Karamarko is actually a political mentor of this whole embarrassing project. Now, let me ask you a question. I am sorry that this opportunity is used for politicisation that is inappropriate and leads to new divisions in society. All of this not only offends victims and their families but also inflicts great damage on Croatia." The question is, I'd like you to explain this ambiguity in your formulation, to specify in fact who this caucus refers to, criticism? Do those who promote the constitution or those who condemn the constitution or point to the danger of reviving the uprising? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7514	Dear Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7515	Thanks for asking. I might have gone back to that first encounter in the government when I had my first chance, and then I think I exposed my position very clearly and communicated. If you all remember very clearly I said that... About Ustasha and the communists to make my firm fail, I hope you all remember that well. [[You don't understand.]] I hope nothing's changed there. I'm against anyone who's totalitarian, there's fascists and Ustashas again, communists. I was on, here's the word, in Osijek, the ambassador from... was here with me, very clearly she knows my position and who I've worked for years for a Jewish, Israeli firm, so I think it's clear to everyone my position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this comment of mine about the division, I hope, and I am sorry that we share in this Croatia around some past. I think Jasenovac should be the place where we all meet together and visit those victims because we all know what they've been through there. And I hope we get back to that first... that we will find one approach where together we will go forward, together, not where we will find which and I don't know what ways to divide again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7516	Dear Representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7517	Mr. Prime Minister, just for a little while. Of course I'm not happy with your answer, but I'll give you a little bit of what Mr. Bandic would say 50% write off because you're from Canada, so maybe you don't understand very well. What you're saying about your company, it's constantly being raised as one question. We cannot discuss youth, employment, reforms, reform or R simply because you, the wicked of the opposition, provoke permanent historical topics. Well, it's not people, it's not me. Every conviction, every totalitarianism is clear but you under that condemnation are actually hiding what is important and that is to clearly condemn the constitution. And then you're actually making a replacement thesis. You're after us, or at least I think you're going after what you're doing yourself, what the bastards in your ranks are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7518	The next question is distinguished representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7519	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the minister of maritime, transport and infrastructure Mr. Tutkovic. Dear Minister, the former government gave up building the Pelješko Bridge in 2012 and part of the leader of the then ruling coalition called the bridge an illusion of fools. In addition to giving up the construction of the Pelješko bridge, the contract with the Croatian construction consortium, which was worth 2 billion kunas in terms of the project and the building permit of the Pelješki bridge, was broken. In... The local elections in 2013 have changed their position somewhat and argues that it would build a bridge if the European Commission so permits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, they also took certain actions to ensure that the European Commission agrees with the construction of the Peljev Bridge. But very quickly, although they haven't solved the necessary documentation, they announce the construction of the Peljega Bridge in March 2015. Since that didn't happen then that construction was extended for September 2015. Since that deadline is not respected, then they announced the beginning of the construction of the bridge in March 2016. Since it's April and these papers haven't started, I'm asking you a question. First of all, is the building permit for the Peljek Bridge being taken out by the former government, which is the document to assume the start of the building of the Peljega Bridge? B) whether the former government has applied to European funds for funding for the construction of the Pelješko Bridge as announced. And third, the most important question, Mr. Minister, according to the state of the documentation available to Croatian roads, tell me and your Croatian public if you could actually start building the Pelješko Bridge according to a new building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7520	Dear Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7521	The Croat is a well-respected representative of yours. The Peljeski bridge, the project of all the projects of this government not to talk too much about the past, you said the most important things, but here the Pelješki bridge is divided into three stages, building the bridge itself, access, first phase, second phase building access roads and third bypass of Stone. At this point, all the preconditions are made for the project to be reported, so-called. a major project to the European Commission. He hasn't been reported yet. It is included in strategic documents which were the basis for defining projects for which we will seek co-financing from the European Commission. A feasibility and cost-benefit analysis was carried out as the basis for the European Commission's assessment. And it is now under way that a application form will contain all the financial and technical aspects of the project itself. The application will be reached sometime in May of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure by the Croatian Roads. A detailed review will be carried out, followed by the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds with counterpart Tolusic, who is the final review. And somewhere in June of the month, the application or application will go towards Brussels and will continue to act as Brussels. In parallel with this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide somewhere in June to build the first phase of the Peljega Bridge regardless of whether or not we have received a positive light which we have no doubts about by the European Commission which will create the conditions for the opening of the competition at the end of June for the implementation of the first phase or the Peljega Bridge. Previously, we need to change the Public Procurement Act and this whole process will continue if there are no complaints and if everything is okay, which I believe will by the end of 2016, which would mean that construction will start in the best circumstances at the end of 2016 and early 2017, respectively. I stress once again, it is a project of all projects and I am glad that there is a consensus of all political parties regardless of what happened in the past and that the Peljek Bridge is no longer a political issue and is not the subject of outwitting between political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7522	Thank you. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7523	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with your answer. We can conclude that for four years we have lost irrevocably, that we have annulled a building permit, valid for which, as you yourself have said, we have not yet issued a new building permit. I have to say that since we have to change one very important law, and this is the Public Procurement Act, that this fact that we have not changed before, and we should have changed it could have contributed to further delaying the start of the construction of the Pelje Bridge, and since the Peljeljski bridge in the building permit is a plot of 18 km long, which includes both the bridge itself and the access roads of the mainland and the Peljeska side. I believe that it will be necessary to approach the amendment of the Construction Act so that we can really start a construction permit for this project in terms of these deadlines that you said, which is the end of June, which is 2016, so that we can get the conditions that we can start building bridges at the end of this year or early next year, although I claim that these are also very optimistic attitudes and that this includes really good, coordinated work and Croatian roads, Croatian Governments and us here in the Croatian Parliament to respect that deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7524	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7525	Thank you, Mr. President. My question goes to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Boza Petrov. You, Mr. Petrov, as a young political star, have made a statement in time that the time has come for a new generation of young, capable and completely unpromised politicians and those who are pure cheeks and who keep their promises. You were talking about transparency in the employment of public companies and, among other things, the companies of your city. However, today you are in the position of power, you are the vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately something completely different is happening, something quite contrary to what you were saying. I'll be in the general chaos that occurred apparently in your government regarding various appointments. I believe you missed because I think you'd certainly have stopped if you knew. There was one appointment in the Croatian waters that we could read about three days ago, it seems to me in the Evening List, which in this article on the entire page calls for sources from the World Bank or the World Bank's Vice-Presidential Office for the integrity of the World Bank, which otherwise deals with fraud when it comes to projects that they finance. In fact, this same World Bank Vice-Presidentship has seen irregularities in a single contest in its own time and has, in fact, directly through this report, accused the lady who led the project at the time. Her name is Fani Bojanic, and she was appointed in the meantime without a competition, and I must warn her untransparently for the deputy director of Croatian Waters. So the report undoubtedly found that the lady had inappropriately interfered with the work of the Committee for the Selection of Artists and that she had received a more expensive performer by her order and therefore the Republic of Croatia was damaged by 130,000 euros. In fact, these funds had to be recovered, i.e. the World Bank did not approve them. What I want to ask you. What are you going to do? In fact, I believe you didn't know that and the lady was in her statement that she had received the support of the Most for that appointment. I believe that you, as a responsible political person, will, on the basis of all those promises you made not only to your voters, but in this case as vice president of all citizens of the Republic, take every effort to make sure that these things do not happen in the future and that this case is resolved in an adequate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7526	Thank you very much. I just want to warn you that I wouldn't have accidentally been warned by my colleague, Petrina, that you'd overstepped your time in more than a minute. Thank you very much. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7527	Dear MPs. I am glad that this is how you can communicate in the Croatian Parliament. So, behind everything I stand for, and what MOST has always looked out for if I'm going to see MOST as part of the government now, it's precisely that part of the staffing if I can say so, or selecting quality persons to certain functions and I can also let other people who are in government always confirm that we are two rules to the state. Never question any involvement in suspicious, cloudy affairs and after that expertise. Besides, my rule in life is that you never suspect people or judge them at the moment until you have absolutely all the evidence. Of course we need to question, of course it's good to question because that's what you're always on guard about, and that's why I thank you for this part that you've been doing right now. Also, what can be done or what will be done if in any way it turns out that what you've brought out is exactly then we're going to need very little time, very little, measured in minutes to sort things out. But I can't use a direct court if the information is questionable what I have information about this case is that an investigation has been conducted based on an anonymous application and that USKOK or DORH, now I don't know exactly who it is, in the end has not confirmed the evidence that was allegedly made in that application. If you have better knowledge than these, then I invite you, you or that unnamed source from the World Bank, but honestly, to provide us with better evidence not only for this case but for absolutely every case that is known and which is suspicious and we will be very happy to implement it because we believe that politics must be led differently and that, compared to how it was before things should change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7528	Dear Representative Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7529	I'm sure you'll do everything but I think you could have done it at this point. In fact, by the very fact that we, or the Croatian Waters, are the Ministry of Finance and the former ministers know it, and probably the current minister actually admitted the guilt when the World Bank decided to withdraw those funds precisely on the basis of this finding. Make sure you get that report, which was made by the commission investigating the case. So if we admitted it at that moment then the lady who is now seems to me only under investigation but you know that both then and in time, you had the view that both of whom are suspected, established doubts and that the investigation is that they are not persons to be appointed to such important places. Because I must remind you of the post of Deputy Director of Croatian Waters is an extremely important place. We are entering that stage where we will have to withdraw funds, large funds, from the EU. If these mistakes or these influences are repeated, we'll have to pay back. And it's not like this 130,000 euros, it's much, much bigger. There's a warning and a request to you and to the Minister of Finance who's also responsible in that part because something has to run because we've had a loss here as a state to do something about it. And you'll be easier than me to get the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7530	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7531	Thank you very much. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Karamark. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we have recently witnessed trial balloons from the government regarding how to regulate salaries in public services and how to regulate working relationships. We can hear from the secretary of the administration that a break is lifted, and after that payment is lifted, and from the government comes the deficits. While at the Minister of Labour and the pension system that should be manifested on this, we have no evidence whatsoever. In addition, yesterday we witnessed an unprepared meeting with the trade unions on the deal and an agreement to raise wages by 6% and unfortunately the meeting failed without any agreement being reached. We bear witness to the government's complete inadequacy in which way and with which arguments should be discussed with trade unions in order to reach agreement on the application of this agreement. I also note and warn that collective agreements for public and state services expire, that Minister Maric will have to pay off the regress this year because he is no longer exempt from the basic collective agreement, that Christmases will have to be paid off. These are all things that this government should agree with trade unions because the result is that public and state services are left without a collective agreement or that we have social unrest which is not good for business climate either but is not good for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So I ask you, those of you who have the greatest and only political power in this government will this government cut salaries to public and state administration employees?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7532	The first Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Karamarko will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7533	Yeah, that's a pretty complex question. As for the union, I wasn't at that meeting, I'm not in charge of this moment, but of course I can answer. The only formula is to talk, talk, talk. The unions certainly understand the state's situation. We can't afford to tell ourselves the luxury of not communicating, right? Unfortunately, at the time of your government, the head of your government has received unionists two or three times in four years. That just can't happen to us right now. Therefore, we will have to talk, and we will all have the same responsibility for what is happening. And employers and trade unions and we, anyway. As far as working hours are concerned, there is no word of an increase or increase in hours in the working day. And also, as far as public sector wages are concerned, I think we've talked about some kind of possible increase, but of course we'll be much smarter in the second part of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7534	Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7535	Dear Vice President, from what you've answered, it can be clearly concluded that the government has no idea how this situation will be resolved and that these are nothing more than empty flossules and persuasion of the public. I don't think you have honestly answered this question that there will be no pay in the public and state sectors because you have already announced in the Payments Act that you will equalise wages in the sector, which means that by equating wages you will reduce wages in public and state service. Even if the government agreed with the unions on the deal, it is expected that the agreement will last until the moment until the wage law is passed, because the government will simply abolish it. This much says that this government has no vision of how to resolve the issue of the agreement, that there is no strategy or people who would be able to implement the changes that are necessary in this country. That's what worries all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here in Parliament, if you do not know, we have left you with the Vice-President of Action Plan to do, what the Government should do for the pay system itself, so I ask that this action plan that has been agreed with the European Commission be implemented, that you do not discover new water, that you do not go astray. And finally be the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the Government of capital and employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7536	The next question is that of a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7537	Thank you very much. My question is for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Tomislav Karamark. First, Mr. Karamarko, a well-intentioned advice, even though you're a historian, don't over-pray in the future of '41. And '45. Let's all turn to economy and business together, do something, suggest something and do something for our citizens. On the other hand, you saw the forecasts of the IMF saying that economic growth in 2016 will be 1.9%, this is the result of the Government of Zoran Milanovic and these are the trends that we started in 4 years. Unfortunately, you don't have that ambition, your plans are on the same level for the next three years. So the 2% growth that you are now planning to achieve in 2017 and '18. and '19. No ambition and no acceleration of economic growth and then no new jobs or employment. I'll remind you of your 5+ plan. So you had a pre-election 5+ plan that talks about economic growth, employment, legal stability and what we had, society, demographics, education and justice. So these were the basics of your basic campaign settings. It is the most important economic growth. You announced that we will have significant economic growth, unfortunately we have no incentive now, for the first time in four years, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs do not have an entrepreneurial impulse, EU funds have been stopped and the economy of parafiscal burdens is not being decommissioned. My question is when will you finally start disbanding the Croatian economy, when will you allow entrepreneurs voluntary membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce after you have made the order of HDZ, the order of former spies, and then again the order of HDZ? When are you going to free our contractors from this harrass? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7538	Thank you and you're way out of time, of course. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7539	Thank you very much. What do you say, after you are left with some numbers and tails, so 50 million, I heard, I'm talking about craftsmanship, etc. How are we going to unload the economy? Of course, a package is being prepared, a new tax package. Tax measures must be stimulating, not detimulative, as they were and, unfortunately, still until we changed them. Therefore, the taxpayer must be exempt from a number of taxes and non-taxable charges. It has to have a wide tax base, and that's why we have to relieve people. It's certainly a good entrance to what you call, the development of entrepreneurship, the crafts. Of course, we'll open up investment routes. It's already happening. We can already talk about 300 million these two months of investment. 300 million euros that are real. That's what we're already doing. The programs you've had haven't made any progress. They came down, so it was that program 21, if I'm not mistaken, they're only down to the floscules and the dead letter on paper. You've left 100 billion new debts. And that artificial growth you had was based on that new borrowing. So now you're asking this government after two months of what's in place when we're up to something. We're already on our way, we're on our way, and we're sure as hell gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7540	Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The problem is, nothing's happening. You're talking about running something now, but what? There's not a single law. And investment, I don't see anything going on. European funds, all I can see is that funds for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have been stopped. The competition was suspended 10 days ago, that's what I see. No, you're talking artificial growth, so 2% of economic growth was achieved after we found Croatia at -2. It's like now you say and Mr. Schucker calculates you as he calculated Sanader in 2008, that in 2019 you will have a 6% growth. But you're not saying that, you're saying that it's going to be 2% growth, that you're going to freeze in the position you inherited. So give me some ambition, show me some. On the other hand, I am not satisfied with what the HGK is, and this is also the request of the MOST and I hope that it will support us in this because we propose the HGK Act, where it will be a voluntary membership in the HGK, that they continue to take hundreds of millions of entrepreneurship kunas each year and there is no benefit for entrepreneurs. None other than your party colleague from Vinkovac and several other party colleagues settled there, and they are now representing the Croatian economy. We want to enable people to have the right to choose whether or not they want to be members of the HGK. And on the other hand, don't talk, please start doing something. We don't have time to wait and this 2% growth will go in the opposite direction as you go. And don't talk about hundreds of billions anymore because the campaign is over, your job is to propose. And you suggested you haven't done anything yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7542	The next question will be asked by distinguished MP Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7543	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask my question to the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Dark Horvat. Dear Mr. Minister, here we are, today on this current clock, unfortunately again, witnessing various political topics that are of no use to us, the development of Croatian society entirely, largely in that tone, was the question of my predecessor, your predecessor, former Mr. Gordan Maras. Your ministry should be one of those policy holders and those development strategies that are primarily directed towards that segment of our society that I believe and, by all of us, the foundation of the serious development of every civilised state today in Europe and in the world, which are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Mr. Minister, one of the first knowledge of your takeover of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts was a serious inherited debt of the ministry according to various paragraphs. They talked a lot about it and the media. My question to you is concrete. Can you tell exactly what kind of debt structure it is and what extent this debt has burdened the planning of your budget in the current year? How do you plan to cover it in view of the necessary budget cuts in the defined frameworks in all ministries. Of course, in the sequence of measures that you and your ministry consider to be crucial, the key newspapers and incentives that you intend to offer to thousands of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen whose work previously depends on the success of our homeland and also on each government as well as on the current ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7544	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7545	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow ministers, honourable parliamentary deputies. Well, yeah, when you make a handover and it's all great and wonderful on that handover, and then you start constructing the budget, and after 10 days, you get the idea that 25% of your budget is already in some of the commitments that you have to settle and settle, then you get into trouble. But I've already told the media several times and before the MPs and promised to find us during this year and for some projects we've already found new sources of funding that won't be the state budget. We have heard here today a story that there will be no entrepreneurial impulse, that to that extent and in such a way the entrepreneurial impulse will not be because the incentive measures will be taken and they have already come up with themselves in a completely different way. We will also use the resources of the state budget for other purposes and realize that we have a very high potential in the Structural Funds, we will adapt the common national rules and that is the key reason why we have stopped the competitions of the Structural Funds. So by reconstructing these rules, we will allow Croatian entrepreneurs and those small and medium-sized ones far more liberal access to the Structural Funds in their desire to have at least 520 applications in this year instead of at least 80 of these contracts. The fact is that in the last year we signed various commitments and then entered into a pre-election period where we stopped paying those commitments, and so according to one of the laws that encourages investment was created and the outstanding commitment at the level of ten million kunas, certain certificates remained unsigned because then the government was in the campaign and simply forgot about the needs of Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs. So, on this Friday with colleagues who have acquired, we will sign additional 10 million kunas of incentive measures, and here we have already found a new source of funding through which we will subsidise through this programme this year with almost 40 million kuna of investment. At this point at the Ministry of Enterprise there are 341 applications in these last maybe 2 months 91 has been processed and ready to sign the certificate with the consent of the Ministry of Finance. These certificates will be called, they will produce investments somewhere at the level of 3 billion kuna and on the basis of commitments made by Croatian entrepreneurs, which will become users of these measures, will bring us new ones somewhere around 6 thousand and 700 jobs. I said EU funds will become more accessible by the time the competitions are opened in 14 days, according to some new rules, where there will be no need to implement the public procurement system, where there will be no more financial instruments and burdens on Croatian entrepreneurs at the time of submission of the application, but only at the time when the conditions for signing the contract and this broad, or wide time cycle in the 6th stage will we be aware of only 3 and in 90 days to implement entrepreneurs from the application phase to the contract. This is a new philosophy in encouraging Croatian entrepreneurship whose source will not be the State budget but exclusively and almost 100% of the structural funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7546	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Žarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7547	Thank you for your response. I can say that I am satisfied with the answer, although I am familiar with most of the measures and strategies your ministry intends to implement in the time ahead. I believe that you will certainly be more successful than your predecessor, who in 2014 had a 50% budget and boasted of his proud and grand visits... from which he came to Croatia as far as I know at least 5 billion euros of new investments. All I ask is that in all the strategies and in all the measures that are ahead of you respect all the realities of Croatian entrepreneurship and Croatian economy and that the measures in the strategy are not only adapted to those who are successful but also to those who find it difficult. And to take a specific look at every branch of the economy, which is its real needs. To try to help everyone in this context in some way. And the smallest ones, and the medium ones, and the larger ones. And those who are successful and who are exporters and those who are facing the Croatian market and who are somewhat more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7548	Thank you. The next question is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Varge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7549	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues were referred to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Karamark. Mr Karamarko, your ministers have announced five measures related to the reforms of the so-called health care community. reforms. The first addition of additional insurance 19 kuna, an increase in the limit of almost 50% for 1000 kuna, the introduction of a fee of 150 kn for arrival to the ER, the collection of above standard services, the relief of the separate work of the doctor de facto rerouting the doctor to private practices, and what has recently been the abolition of the recovery of hospitals. And the question being raised is whether the poorest layers of citizens are believed to be responsible and necessary to be those who are the bearers of health reform, the financial consolidation of the system. Today you spoke on Croatian Radio and mentioned again your pre-election promise of the valley of tears. You said the valley of tears won't feel the poorest layers, and we see through these measures that it's the ones that will be the most touched by the measures that are being introduced into health care. Or if this is not a measure to improve the health care system at the expense of the poorest layers of the population, is this a measure to finally privatise health care that you have also announced and collaborated with phantom Slovak institutes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7550	Thank you. The first Deputy Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7551	Thank you very much for asking. All these austerity measures are actually in a way that we try to stop further borrowings. You know how much you owe us and how much you owe us today? Therefore, all these measures will not be affected by the poorest. An example of the supplemental one, so all those with an average below 1500 kn per member of the family were released. Then let's think about who was actually affected by such measures. Certainly not the poorest. Therefore, you will know far better than I do in which direction you have set out and where you have actually sinned. The fact is that health care would say conditionally swallow too much, it's about 24 billion if I'm not wrong. We just have to cut costs. We need to be solid. And I repeat once again, we will be in solidarity with those who are needed and will certainly not be affected by these measures that you have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7552	Honorable representative of Sinish Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7553	I'm not happy with the answer, I'd like a written answer. It is the fact that Croatian citizens already through general taxes and finance the education of doctors, finance their specializations, pay basic health insurance through contributions, pay regularly. We've heard more than once that the extra insurance charge at high percentages in HZZO's national insurance company is over 80%, close to 90%. And they still pay those who can and go to the private where they pay. And the question is what remains of the public health sector is that the increase in the limit of pay for participation itself, the increase in the price of the supplemental and rerouting of the doctor to the private sector through the supplemental work of the doctor all sums up in favour of the intention of privatising the health care and de facto that what remains of the public sector will be the poverty reserved for those who cannot afford our Croatian health system which is our pride and discipline. From May 14, 1922, we have in continuity a public solidarity system of health to this government through measures of the valley of tears it intends to end. It is our duty to all of us to prevent it. We hope that we will not come to this and that the government will give up on these measures. We left 8 reform measures confirmed by the European Commission as good. Neither one of them goes to the heart of the citizens. I propose to the government and ministers to implement these reforms and to preserve the Croatian health system as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7554	The next question will be asked by the distinguished Predrag Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7555	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear members of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer my question to the defence minister, Mr. Tommy Bear. After weeks of drama, comedy, tragedy and soap opera, we got a new secretary of defense, and I personally think it's a good choice, and if it could have been at the beginning, it could have avoided a lot of things going on. But those were your sweet worries. I even wanted to ask this question to the first Deputy Prime Minister, however, I have no patience, and I do not have the nerve to listen when I would begin to explain that 860 million kunas for defenders were more than 916 years old when Croatian defenders only got a 20 million kuna budget increase, protesters had their regular extraordinary press conferences and protested against that increase. Now that they've got 56 million kunas less simply don't answer. That's what it says about their consistency. Mr. Minister, you promised in your program to return the defenders honor and dignity and to create a new Law on Defense. Honor and dignity, I looked a little on the Internet and I used that expression myself it is actually a Croatian word dignity is a matter of honor, so it is about the same thing. And honor, old folk wisdom says no one can take it away or give it to anyone, honor is the gift of man himself. But we have the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. So, while I was the minister of the protesters from the tent, they brought me this proposal, whose first page alone costs several billion kunas. There is an equalisation of the status of HVO members with HV status. So, everything we talked about. I hope that the defenders, having the understanding that this is no longer an unnatural, communist, Chetnic, pro-Yugoslavenian power, but the people's right to have understanding and to reduce at least their demands by 10 times, but this means again that billions of kunas, billions of kunas, need the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance to provide and I hope that they listen to this and your answer that they will listen carefully so as not to raise their pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7556	Thank you very much. The honourable representative of the Bear will respond. I would also like to ask colleagues, this, in fact, you fellow Matic insulted his colleagues with this story about the Chetnik government. It's... I'm sorry, I don't remember anyone here in this room, especially from this place saying that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore,...... Please don't insult your colleagues. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, buddy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7557	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Matić, thank you very much for your question. You know how the state of the Ministry of Croatian Defence requires full access. And through such an approach to solving the accumulated problems. I don't know what kind of materials you have. What has been started in the ministry is, for starters, we have established a quality dialogue and cooperation with Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War as a basic prerequisite for further work. We started with the creation of a single law on Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War and it implies returning a series of dispersed rights from other ministries to this unique law. What we have also begun is the design of a whole model of preservation and protection of health. So you know and trust this esteemed House how many Croatian defenders die prematurely. I know that there have been some partial solutions that we believe have not properly addressed this issue. The next question we also consider very important and for which we have started work is to find an effective model of housing. But what is important is the creation of a sense of security of this vulnerable population of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War and what we do daily through the daily work of the ministry and through quality established appropriate inter-resorship cooperation with other ministries daily. As far as your specific budget issue is concerned, it is reduced compared to the plan but it has increased by 34 million kuna compared to the implementation of the 2015 budget and as such guarantees the realization of all our planned activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7558	Dear Representative Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7559	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your reply. And believe me, if anyone in this House and in all of Croatia has an understanding of the work that you will do and continue to work, be sure it is me. However, what I wanted from you and I here argue responsibly to the entire Parliament and to the Croatian public that there will be no new law. Because the 850 million budget is strained as a sling and it is just to meet the needs of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War in that volume and that law as it is. I showed this that it costs 14 additional billion to 6 billion that are otherwise separated for Croatian defenders. And only one leaf here costs a few billion that was in the proposal. I'm saying maybe that'll cut it 10 times with you. The only thing you can put into the law is a proposal that came the other day from the Split Hoss to greet the home ready to put into law. He doesn't cost anything but he'll cost us money. You saw for yourself that thanks to the Americans who came and the pity that man did not come a year ago because we see that the unreserved behavior that was in Jasenovac since last year, the clarification that it was about playful and naughty directors in the cultural artistic society of Jasenovac was turned into Ustashas and criminals this year. I'm sorry that the first Deputy Prime Minister still hasn't managed to master and move the word Ustasha across his mouth. But that's not your problem and it doesn't apply to you here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7560	The next issue is Honored Representative Antun Vidakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7561	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is, will be addressed to the Minister of Justice, Anti-Sprawl. Dear Minister, here I am going to turn a little bit of these political issues on very specific, I can say almost, just geodetic. When I thought about asking the question, I decided to be specifically geodetic. But listening to all these questions right now, I'm sorry it wasn't political. But let me keep going. By communicating our pre-election programme during the election campaign, we promised, our 14 with the 14th, better said VI. election units, we promised to change in Croatia. Changes, both secular and economic. They listened more to us when we talked about the economy. That is why we all agree together that Croatia needs reforms, root reforms to start Croatia, to start an investment cycle in Croatia. It is Croatia's only hope. However, how in my humble opinion we are a highly regulated state. Investors and those who appear face major obstacles, I see my time is up. I'm sorry, I'm going to overstep. So one of those obstacles is an unsettled property legal situation. [[Intruder: President: do not prefer.]] It's only possible to solve with new geodetic measurements that but it's stuck there, we've got 166 geodetic measurements done, 67 is exposed, 97 is on hold. The question is, how will you speed up that 100,166 meters now dead capital reached the value we saw in Sali when President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic was.. [[The President: What is the question of your colleague Vidakovic, you have exceeded the time and there are no questions.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7562	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Spralje will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7563	Thank you, Your Honor. The Justice Department provides for one set of measures... to accelerate the restoration or establishment of land books. Those questions have been neglected a lot lately. We know that most of our land books were killed from the time of the Austro-Hungarian class, the last of which was the country that took care of land books. So far, the problems of renovations and founding land books have been mostly either financial or humane. For this reason, we must also change the existing legislation in the amendments to the Law on Land Books, which will regulate the renewal and establishment of land books, which are much simpler, more operational and easier to restore and set up. In this process, geodetics and lawyers and trained persons must work together. Without that, there is no progress, and they must be focused on this goal. By the end of the year, both the legal and organisational framework of such actions and the way in which it will be done will be completed. It's one, maybe one of the reforms that will really be one of the most important reforms in the country. New changes have always been expensive and so far been complex but we will try to make them cheap and simplify that operating teams who do such things are doing it immediately and not being measured and being prepared to ask whether geodetic administrations have enough money or staff to do it. We will release part of the staff for these matters because it will be one of the priorities of the Ministry of Justice. It's going to be one of the ways we're going to deal with this problem. Among other things, those reforms through digitisation and land-based books and the publication of land-based library excerpts and the handover of land-based library proposals will create a space for new staff at the Ministry of Justice and in courts that will be able to engage in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7564	Dear Representative Antun Vidaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7565	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think we're going in the right direction. Now I'm gonna finish what I couldn't say. Of these 166 dimensions, some have been finished for 10 years. They cost half a billion kuna for the state and local self-government. This cannot be restored to what is said bdw. This must be exactly as you said, and therefore I propose what has finally come from our HDZ Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on the idea of creating a geographical information system because these are systems that are well-managed but fast and efficient so that every investor can solve it as soon as possible. We've got a lot of problems here, so it's good to have more time to say. It's unacceptable that we now have four databases that control space that don't communicate with each other. They're expensive, they're too expensive, they're inefficient and unquality to say it. So, Mr. Minister, keep up the good work. Let us at least determine the direction in which we want to go in space management, so Croatia has potential, there are terrible quality people and we know how to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7566	Thank you. The next issue is the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7567	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister. The question is for Mr. Sprlj, the Justice Department, the minister of justice's modernisation. We know it's a branch of Croatian society. Five years ago, we had 900 thousand unsolved cases, some of which took 10 years, and I think it could be accelerated, night courts, that maybe court officials could work, handing orders not just infraction courts to work nights, etc. But the question is the same question, which is the Council of Europe Resolution 1906, which deals with the removal of the legacy and the former system. This applies most, depending on the judiciary because they cannot sit in the Supreme Court, the Constitutional is now retired, etc. People who were convicted, people four and a half years ago for reading the paper. I'd like to mention one more thing, when we're talking about justice, I've never heard that from our hot gentlemen and the lady in the opposition that we have 2 million ha of land that was taken away from the 47th year by the Croats. Not to speak is being built on other people's land today. I'm called outsiders, houses, hotels, nursing homes, etc. on other people's land. What kind of state is that? When are we going to start implementing that resolution? Not just here, 1481. And for these people who can't change their mental circuits, which are fossilized like those cokes, coke those white African marshal parrots, I would suggest that we all pay them a one-way ticket in Eritrea, Pyong Yang or Venezuela, they'd all be better off there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7568	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Spralje will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7569	With regard to the modernisation of the judiciary, there are a series of laws and measures in place. I can point out and say that the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council, which determines the organisation of the judiciary, are now in preparation. So the working groups are already working on them, the guidelines are set. Among other things, there is the mobility of judges who will contribute to the deployment of judges to those courts or places, to those tasks that are overloaded. We now have a system in which misdemeanor courts are relieved of both municipal or commercial courts that are burdened. And in that sense, it is likely to merge the misdemeanor courts with municipal courts, but where this system will be created where the work of judges will be evened out. As far as old cases are concerned, we can now say that the presidents of the courts, especially those of the seniors, have been instructed to submit data on the old cases through regular reports and that they are fast objects that need to be handled as quickly as possible. So there's no more excuse to keep the old stuff in drawers. With regard to procedural regulations, they are also in the works. And the Law on Prosecution that has already drawn close to the end in its draft, the Law on Criminal Procedure, which the Working Group also hastens to produce, the Act on General Out-of-party Procedure is also in the works. So one set of measures is in preparation. These laws must otherwise be prepared seriously, they cannot be prepared overnight. Someone might think it can be prepared in 1, 2, 3 months. This isn't going so fast, these are serious laws that experts need to prepare very seriously. But it's only one part of the law that may be most important and soundiest. The Executive Law, which the distinguished representative Bulj also mentioned for a moment, is also being prepared. There are also a number of activities in digitisation that will enable effective monitoring and work of individual judges and individual courts. This digitisation will not only follow the work of judges it will also help the public to know exactly what the courts are doing. Even now on a quarterly basis, we plan to introduce a quarterly monitoring of the work of individual courts and individual judges and allow the public to have insight. This has not been possible so far, so far, statistical and analytical tools have been done on the principle that you have only just won and even somewhere in the middle of the year what happened in the past year. We have now created a system of work that will allow real quick monitoring of judicial work. With regard to the appointment of judges, the current legal framework gives one real independence in the appointment of judges, however, we must operate on it. The State Judicial Council must have tools that will allow judges to nominate more quickly according to the needs of the system. So we're working in multiple directions, we can't go overnight but we're changing the system and I believe in a year that we're going to have one really rooted change in the system. In the case of individual cases of possible illegality of building on individual lands, foreign or something owners must take steps themselves to protect their rights. We can't as a state engage ourselves in certain cases, it needs those persons whose rights are injured they run proceedings in courts to protect possibly their right of ownership. Of course we don't do that as a ministry. So this ministry and this government are taking a really wide range of measures, a wide range of measures, and they can say that people in the ministry are working very hard, working and working on weekends, working and out of work time, so that these reforms can be launched as soon as possible and have those positive consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7570	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7571	Well, thanks for the answer. You're working. I think it takes a lot of synergy to solve the cancer of the Croatian society, which is the bureaucracy of the socialist. It's not easy for you because you inherited the system, we inherited the system legal and social which could only survive on... And unfortunately these obstacles are still there but I think, I hope, that the synergy more between the Ministry of Agriculture and other agencies to get rid of these millions of hectares of taken away land that was taken away in '47, other lands around Zagreb where people were killed and people moved into their houses, etc. [[You don't understand.]] Without that, we won't have a healthy state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7572	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7573	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Honored Minister and Minister, Minister Butkovic. I ask you a question on behalf of the citizens of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogian County, the area from which I come, the area where I am a parliamentary representative. For more than a year, citizens of the town of Bjelovar have been travelling towards Zagreb almost every day for more than half an hour longer, because the work of performing a new route of fast road towards the Križevci, so the Gradec-Križevci route. In particular, when is the opening of the stock exactly that fast road Gradec-Križevci since the big traffic jams through the town of Vrbovac, which are due to the performance of the works, make it difficult for the citizens of the town of Bjelovar to come to their work in Zagreb, and until the end of the works, the whole route is closed for transport? Here's the minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7574	The Honorable Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7575	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. As you yourself have said in your question, it is a part of Gradec-Križevci, the investor of the Croatian highway, which is a fast road that will ultimately not be under the authority of the Croatian highways but will have to make an agreement to take over the Croatian roads for the maintenance of the stock. The papers are now 90% done and somewhere in June of the month will be completed. After that is the technical review of the said stock and sometime by autumn we will have that route opened. So please but also all the citizens, all those who are, of course, I understand they're irritated because they're big crowds that we're going to have that stock opened very quickly. There is another infrastructure project that is the railway section of Gradec-Tubno, 12.5 km which is also co-financed, 85% by the European Union. These are significant two major infrastructure projects that will bring Bjelovar closer and shorten travel times both on the road and on the railway with the capital. Here's a thank you and I'm asking for another understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7576	Thank you. Honorable representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7577	Thank you very much for your response. I'm pleased with the answer. Here, I appeal this time, you also mentioned this second part that may be even more important for the citizens of Bjelovar, so this part of the road from Gradec to Farkasevec, i.e. towards the Frog. I know what you inherited, that road has been promised to the Belarusians for almost two years, especially before the local elections. On the eve of that road, she was followed by the great clamper that was made on it. And here's hoping that right now, it will be you and your team who are going to make an additional effort to make sure that what you're saying is true and that the deadlines don't break in the future. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7578	Thank you for asking the following question, the honourable representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7579	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers. I intended to ask this question to the Minister of Regional Development, Mr Tolusic, here I am setting up his deputy. And it concerns the problem of funding water supply projects when the country's donors are outside the European Union. The U.S. Embassy has conducted, announced and launched a water-building tender in the Ervenik municipality. And it was closed on 22rd of this year. Under the tender, the U.S. government donated half a million dollars for the construction of part of the waterway in Ervenik municipality. And now there's a problem. The problem is, you have to pay VAT on these funds and that VAT is not small. The problem is that this must be paid by Ervenik municipality, which is a poor local self-government in the assisted area, cannot finance VAT costs and is among other things among the first 10 most underdeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. So there is a real danger that the entire donation project of the works of that plumbing will fail because we can't find a way to pay that VAT. I will remind only that the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has established, so the Fund for Co-financing of EU implementation projects on regional and local level with the aim of helping municipalities in such cases, and they are, this aid only concerns projects within the EU countries and does not refer to projects donated by countries outside the EU. Obviously, we have a problem here with a model of funding that we need to correct. So my question is what the Minister of Regional Development is thinking of doing in order to help municipalities in the assisted area and financially support projects that are vital to this area and are related to donations from countries outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7580	Thank you. The Deputy Minister will respond. Deputys can answer. Okay, here's the Prime Minister's answer. Here, the Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7581	Yeah, thanks, so we'll answer it in writing, which is the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7582	The next question is the honorable representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7583	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and ministers. My question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Romic. Here we heard here today almost 10 questions about agriculture. We know that agriculture is indeed a burning problem in the Republic of Croatia, primarily dairy but also livestock, warfare, land problems. But my question will be addressed and related to support. In fact, here, not long after the state budget was adopted, as was said, aid payments started. On the one hand, it's like a ray of hope for people that they can go into the spring seed, that they can even maintain production. On the other hand, however, concern among people. Why? People don't know what they got, how much they got, how much they got, what percentage is that. Because we know that it has been announced for many years that through Agronet how many people have the right to support, when they will be paid or what is precisely paid. In these few days since the start of the payment of state aid in agriculture every day almost 50 calls from people from farmers living from agriculture from Dežanovac, Končanica, Daruvar, Grubišni Polje, Vrbanje, everywhere, because people don't know what it is. With that advance from last year and this payment of support, something about 35% of last year's support payments came up. People wonder if that's it, if there's more. We know there is, we know there's funds in the budget. I would ask you, so that through Agronet, the farmers will finally have insight into what is paid and what is the continued dynamic of the payment of the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7584	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Davor Romic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7585	President of the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary representatives and MPs. Mr. Bilek, thank you for this question. I would like to point out in some way that the interested public must, may and should be transparently informed of what is being paid for when it comes to support. In fact, it is the money of EU citizens and that money must be transparent, including Croatia's citizens. They must have insight into everything that's been paid. So now just a few information about what it's paid for and how much it's paid for. This is the first time in the year that all payments go for a brand-new model. So this new model meant a series of changes that needed to be made, and it included software changes in the functioning of that entire system. So there was a payment of 750 million kuna in the last year. The current payment goes to category 960 million kuna. This will be paid for basic payments, green payments, redistributed payments, young farmers, productive support for cows in milk production, tov heroine, suckling cows, sheep and goats, vegetables, fruit, sugar tail, feed and protein crops, as well as direct aid measures for farmers in the dairy sector, cows in production. The total amount of 960 million kuna will be paid these days and here I get information and that payment is almost at the end. Then comes the category of the second payment rate of 983 million kuna, which will be immediately in early May now, that is, at the end of April, in early May. In total, 3 billion and 400 million kuna will be paid in advance. In particular, we focused on that sensitive sector, and as far as this sensitive sector is concerned, which we have talked about many times today, the dairy cows will be paid 50 million kunas more and more, respectively, per every cow 836 kuna, which is a maximum amount. The same is true of the feedingstuffs for which 530 million and 530 kuna will be paid per herd. So your question is going towards transparency. These are the money farmers will get into their accounts. The interested public may have insight into the euro regulation via the paying agency’s website by accessing payment data, support for the previous financial year. So all that's in the previous year is available to the entire public. As far as your question concerns the ongoing payment, that means that in 2015, every farmer can access the data on his own holding by means of a telephone or e-mail to the Agency to provide his home identification number of the holding by which the Agency’s employees can verify his current payment status. Furthermore, pursuant to Regulation 1036/2013. the years of support from the direct payments programme shall be implemented from 1 December to 30 June of the following calendar year. In practice, this means that the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development shall carry out calculations on the height and right to direct support and shall pay the support to be completed on 30 June of the current calendar year for the previous production year. Only after all the controls have been carried out and after the calculations have been completed have the level of support for individual rights and the amount of support paid to the agencies provided to the user through the agronets which you are in the system to decide on the rights actually achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7586	Thank you. Dear Representative Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7587	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I'm extremely glad that the second war that will go on means within 15 days, so that people, now that we have agro deadlines that squeeze us, started planting, means soy, corn and all the other cultures. I hope that soon with the software adjustment it will still be possible and available data not that people have to call personally and send an email because I know it's suffering the agency. The agency doesn't have enough people to just send e-mails and that there will be some temporary solutions until the final processing of the data that will be available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7588	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative, Josepha Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7589	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My question was addressed to the management minister, Mrs. Dubravka Jurlina Alibegovic, and of course it is about how the units of local and regional self-government see in further reforms. We are witnessing that in the past term of this government, which, thank God, has already gone through great injustices and damages. So that the units of local and regional self-government are suffering means a minimum tax reform, some units of local and regional self-government have lost up to 40% of their income to such governmental moves. We often hear that they are ineffective, that they are intransparent, but on the other hand, when compared to European trends, we forget that Europe's trend is 30% of the income of the state budget goes to local and regional self-government units and in the Republic of Croatia we come to the lowest branches and that's somewhere at 14%. Dear Ministers, since we know that you have launched a task force for public administration reform, my question is how through public administration reform you see both the reform of local and regional self-government, or whether you have planned and what functions you have decentralised and whether these decentralised functions will also be accompanied by fiscal policy. whether you will strengthen local and regional self-government units and fiscal capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7590	Dear Minister Jurlina Alibegovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7591	Dear MPs, allow me to thank you for your question. So it is a very important issue and a very important issue for the reform government. So, I have to say, here's to remind the distinguished MPs that for many years as a scientist I am currently dealing with issues of organisation and funding of local and regional self-government, so these are very important topics. What should actually be reminded is that Croatia is indeed a fragmented country today. In Croatia there are 556 local units and another 20 counties, the town of Zagreb with special status, so a large number of local units. What is special, and this would like to point out today, is that the largest number of small municipalities and small towns and of 556 local units are somewhere 281 local units, so municipalities and the city, have less than 3000 inhabitants. In all these 281 local units live only 12% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. What does that tell us? So it tells us exactly that, and I'd like to say further, that of those 281 local units over 160 belong to areas that are in the first and second groups according to the development index. So these are municipalities and cities where the level of development is below 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. All of this together speaks of the need to implement reforms, so the need to reform local self-government in such a way that this local self-government must be responsible but also capable of dealing with a number of tasks it provides to citizens and the economy. And that is precisely why the Government of the Republic of Croatia and my ministry are going into reform processes. What are we gonna do? So, we have formed a commission within this commission, but within the Ministry of Administration itself, we are working of course to collect a series of data to come up with adequate indicators on the basis of which we will define more models of good organisation and desirable organisation of territories in Croatia so that units of local and regional self-government are not only sustainable but also provide all services that should be provided to citizens and the economy in a satisfactory manner. What I would really like to stress further is that we are not going to work on a single model proposal but we are going to offer more models based on a comprehensive analysis. On the basis of these models, we want to open them up, we want to publicly present them to the Croatian public, and I want to include, of course, representatives of the units of local and regional self-government, academic community and social partners. On concrete solutions, we want to get the consent of all parliamentary parties, positions and oppositions, of course. We want to have a public administration but also a local self-government that will be effective, effective and that will provide citizens and a quality service economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7592	Thank you. Honorable representative of Josepha Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7593	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. What I believe is that in this task force, you will suggest that you contact, consult and associations of cities, community of municipalities, community of counties and the Parliamentary Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I also believe that you will actively participate with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds in the new development index parameters because we have already repeatedly found that this is the very index of development. Parameters that calculate the development index are very poor. But what I need to say to you, I don't know how much you've been able to track the latest data, according to the latest report of the fiscal decentralisation indicator in Southeast Europe in 2006-2014, means the average city and municipalities in Croatia live on average in 7717 inhabitants, and the EU average is 5580 inhabitants. This statistics says that our units of local self-government on average and are not the least units of local self-government in Europe, and it is not necessary to reform the number. I think that when we change the index of development of a particular parameter and a certain meaning we do decentralisation of powers, but above all fiscal decentralisation, there will certainly be another picture of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7594	Thank you. The next question is that of the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7595	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to address the question to the prime minister and the Prime Minister. So we can all agree in this assembly that INA is a strategic national company. She's the second employer in the Republic of Croatia, I think almost 13,000 employees with incomes of several tens of billions of kunas. And I think it is more or less clear to all that the very complicated relations between MOL's strategic partner and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which were primarily caused by the failure of the 2013 commitments and by the litigation process and the desire of MOL to turn INA into its branch and into a network of gas stations with no perspective and investment which are at the very end of the line and obligations they made in 2003. Today's INA situation is catastrophic. People don't know what the future is. MOL doesn't know who to talk to, that's what you'll answer, in the government of the Republic of Croatia. And my question goes in the direction, let me remind you, MOL insisted on arbitration. MOL did not respond to our proposal for a shareholder contract sent by the government, any government, this is a national interest, there must be a broader consensus on the interest in INA. They suggested the closure of Sisko, and we wouldn't let that happen. In the business plan of 2016, they have the recommitment of Sisak and do not invest in Rijeka. My question is when can we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia's position on relations with MOL? When will you bring the framework for the negotiations? What are the strategic objectives in INA? Who will be responsible, whether you, the Minister of Economy, appear here and the Minister of Entrepreneurship, I don't know. People in INA are confused, employees. The Croatian public must know what the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, INA employees must know what the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is and how we can help you, we all need to help in this process but we cannot engage at all if it is a completely unclear direction in the last 2.5 months. 2.5 months have passed, we don't have a clear attitude, it's too much for INA's fate. Every week we lose, we don't lose our position in the INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7596	Thank you. The honourable Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7597	Thank you very much for this question. And if I may, I will take the opportunity to thank you because only at the beginning of my term have we had the opportunity to meet down and thank you for your advice and for that... INA MOL than for other these ours I will say energy topics but also other investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we go... INA MOL and that it is clear to all of us that INA is also a strategic firm of national interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Croatia will take over everything to protect our interests first. We all know the arbitration process is under way. And the position of this government is that we will wait,... in which way and which are the results of that arbitration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that arbitration should stay here somewhere in the fall, I hope it ends here somewhere, and then we'll see what these results are, what we've run so far. I think it's clear to all of us that we should have stability in the INA, so this government extended the term of office to the board members for a year. But with that, we also made it very clear that when we're going to appoint a new supervisory board that this supervisory board will again be responsible for the new administration. And the most crucial perhaps answer to this question of yours, I think you yourself know that this is a very complicated situation, it is not easy, there are great interests I would say by Croatia, by MOL and some other topics that are connected. And I'd say, I think what the government is doing, there's a team that... I'd say what I'd do in my former firm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And where we will consider a few scenarios that will ultimately be in the best interest of the Republic of Croatia. And then at the right time we'll sit down with the MOL and start having negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7598	Thank you, dear representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7599	So, dear Prime Minister, we can't wait until autumn to complete the arbitration process because there are business processes in the INA. A billion and 300 million kunas are annual investment in INA. Hundreds of cooperatives work there. They cut investments, share cancellations, cut wages, reduce oil and gas production, don't invest in Rijeka. Their spatial plan is to close Sisko. So arbitration procedures go their way. But there must be a clear view of the government and who are the people who are going to be with this hot potato as we have faced and send a message to people in the end line, you will not fire 900 people in Sisak, you will continue to work. New people in Rijeka will be hired because investments are going. Those answers will not bring arbitration. Those answers will not bring arbitration, arbitration has another process. MOL insisted on them, not us. And I would like the two arbitrations to be abolished at the same time with the agreement to invest in Rijeka, with the agreement to invest in Sisak and not turn INA into an MOL branch. That's why I think every week you're not doing anything, not asking questions you're... ? We're looking for investments. So we have them in INA, billions and 300 million kunas every year. To insist on the realisation of these investments, ask our members of the administration to realise these investments within their power, which are quite limited in view of the 2009 stockholder's stake. That's why I think it's inadmissible to wait for the fall than every week doing nothing in the INA's de facto seems a huge damage to the INA. Send a message to the employees of INA, the Croatian public, the politics of the Croatian Government about the future of the INA and before the arbitration proceedings end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7600	Thank you. We still have four questions and we'll continue with the questions until the end and then there'll be a break. So the next question will be asked by distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7601	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Home Secretary Mr. Orepic. Namely, Mr. Minister, from the first day you were appointed to the office of Minister of the Interior as a representative of the Most, it can be said that an ugly family tract between you and the first Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Tomislav Karamark started, or between the Most and HDZ. Tomislav Karamarko himself, and I guess on behalf of HDZ, from the first day on, he's been asking you to replace some of the people at the Ministry of the Interior that you've been refusing all along. And unfortunately, as citizens, we all had to follow it through the media whether or not we wanted to. So I'm going to quote a few of the statements that you made and made by Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Karamarko. Mr. Karamarko says at one point, Mr. Orepic must know that I am responsible for the work of the Ministry of the Interior. So then Mr. Orepic says, the Government Act is very clear and clearly knows who's responsible for whom. Well, then that communication scale goes a little lower because we're going into the field of different demeaning when Mr. Karamarko says yes, I read that he's a minister, etc., etc. And since it's already happening in life then something that breaks the situation, this famous robbery of the Heinzel police building happens, and all of a sudden it's because of those who were supposed to be replaced and we have a statement from Vice President Karamark, the minister has learned something, this is his experience, it's best to learn on his own skin. I'm specifically asking what you learned? Have you learned that Vice President Karamarko is your boss and that you should have listened to him or maybe you shouldn't have listened to him? And specifically, I ask you to answer for the public to finally know who you are as Minister of the Interior, in fact, to the Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Mr. Oreshkovic or the first Deputy Prime Minister of Government, Mr. Tomislav Karamark. That we no longer have to go through the media, portals, and all other means of information to listen to different statements where you're arguing about who's responsible to whom.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7602	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Orepic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7603	Dear Representative, the minister of the interior of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the prime minister, i.e. the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7604	Dear Representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7605	Well, to be honest, I almost expected an answer like this, and it's only kind of proof to me that my question is and it hurts a lot given what the answer is. But I will remind you of one thing, two and a half months ago this government was voted in this House and this House, and all that was discussed in this government were reforms, public administration reforms, health, welfare, the economy, whatever you want. The only one who hasn't talked about police reform or police reform or anything else. However, what we have after two months of MOST and HDZ without a problem are agreed to give up any reform, to streamline any reform so that they probably give up afterwards. A very good example is the curricula reform that today in the prolonging phase, so we'll see what's going to happen. However, it is being set up as a reform of all reforms, the most important reform absolutely in this country, the reform of the police system, and in that part, that reform, absolutely no one can give up, and all the time we have, two and a half months of fighting between the MOST and the HDZ, or a major dispute where the police have. I'm sorry that Deputy Prime Minister Petrov isn't here, so let's see this table he was talking about big reforms that we all agreed on, no such reforms were written. And I'll just say one thing at the end. I wouldn't like my colleagues to ask for names for this government so that if they were fighting with the President of the Parliament whether they were good or not, is he laughing like that or not? Gentlemen, if you continue like this, I advocate that this government is really called the reform government because one day if you keep doing what you do and don't do when you withdraw accounts, that name of the reform government will be just one sad memory, of a failed government that has had the opportunity to do good things. However, who unfortunately killed each other fighting things and things that aren't so important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7606	Thank you very much. The next question is the distinguished representative Ivan Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7607	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and Nature, Mr. Slaven Dobrovic. It is known that there are currently no manufacturers of vehicles and tyre manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand, the processing and recovery of waste vehicles and waste tyres are successfully carried out by domestic companies. The government of the Republic of Croatia was last year in the 4th month. It shall adopt a Decision amending the fees in the waste vehicles and waste tyres management systems which have been reduced the fees prescribed by the Regulation on the management of waste vehicles and the Regulation on the management of waste tyres. By taking effect these changes in six months. Reduced fees paid by producers to the fund, i.e. in this particular case, importers of vehicles and tyres. It also reduced the fees for domestic waste tyres users for recycling or for the material use of waste tyres and for waste vehicle processors was abolished. The question arises as to what is the position of the new leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Nature on this decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am interested in what the minister's position on the system of management of specific categories of waste is and whether the reform of this system is planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7608	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Dobrović will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7609	Dear Representative Kovacevic, thank you very much for asking. So, the reform we're going to implement is definitely about the specific category of waste, so not just mixed municipal waste. We need to know that it has been found that when certain goods are placed on the market, the items are charged for these, for subsequent disposal and that this fee is later spent in different incentive systems, so collection, therefore, recycling. It has been observed that there are a lot of discrepancies here, i.e. inconsistencies, that the system is ineffective and we believe that in the reform that we are going to implement, we will increase the efficiency of the system by trying to reduce the fees paid when placing goods on the market. Efforts and more efficient use of such collected means to raise the efficiency of the system. So that's the goal. The final goal is to have less waste unsettled, or less waste that does not fit the circulatory economy system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7610	Dear Representative Ivan Kovačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7611	Here, nothing, I thank the minister for his reply, and I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7612	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7613	Dear President of the Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister, respected members of the government. My question was addressed to the Minister of Economy, Mr Tomislav Panenic. In July 2013, a Law on the heat market was adopted declaring the existence of a market where consumers should have an opportunity to choose between different companies supplying them with central heating produced in heat or city boilers. That market isn't there yet. The task of this law was to oblige all consumers by the end of this year to install divisors of heat that did not measure, the consumption of heat, but only register impulses according to the amount of energy consumed on each radio in space and then the total quantity delivered throughout the building is distributed to apartments. In the disputed law on the heat market, the divisions are listed as an obligation prescribed by the EU Directive. It is clear from the example of Denmark, Ireland, Britain that there is no obligation to install a device for individual measurement as much as possible no more citizens are fined, but the possibility of an alternative method of distribution of costs to consumers in multiple residential buildings is left. The law passed in the past government was repressive and not social and citizens fearing legal penalties for non-encouraging divisors up to 50,000 fines began to build on many overpriced devices and central heating accounts were mostly increased. The current government whose HSPA is shared must not be held hostage by the former government's wrong decisions. If it intends to continue to stay on when installing the divisor, then the model should be arranged so that the costs are not borne by the citizens. The sanctioning of citizens in any form of us in HSPAS is unacceptable because, in the event of leaving that law in the original form, it has accepted it The last government for us in HSP is well unacceptable. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] The question is, Minister, are you going to run and ask for a change of law?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7614	Thank you. Minister Paneninic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7615	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. In your question, you've actually identified one of the great pains, which is in our energy system exactly heat energy. I could say it's becoming wound cancer. It is still a social category where the free market as such has not been established and has a whole series of problems. In this very law most often mentions divisions as such and communicates with them. But if you may have noticed it was the government's decision to lower the suppliers 24% of the natural gas price, which is most often energy. I followed their reaction closely. In large part of the case, their statement was in terms of making up for past losses or making up for some investments. I'd say I can't be satisfied with that answer, that there are already honorable exceptions because there's no basis for a decision that reduces energy prices to make up for losses. Therefore, it is something that we must change and must become a market category. At this point, the task force has taken the responsibility to make a proposal for a change for the divisors as well. But it's clear to everyone here that it's not just going to be a split change, but also to determine the effects of the entire system. We must insist that we have a system that will be effective, means energy, and also ensure the lowest cost of energy. I must also say that the ministry, it will work hard to optimise the whole system's distribution that these costs are significantly reduced, to encourage suppliers to invest and that we finally have satisfied citizens. I'll figure out one thing. If the price of heat is low enough, it and its distribution will certainly not be as problematic as at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7616	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7617	But I haven't heard of whether there's going to be any punishment left for not introducing divisors or introducing them to their own expense or distributor or manager or perhaps otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7618	Thank you. The next question is the honorable representative Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7619	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Davor Romic. Mr. Ministers Croatia imports enormous quantities of food of questionable quality without any control. So, from the border to the product on the shelf no one at any stage in the production and no food controls, no age, no declaration, but only so-called. Self-control. Such old and cheap food twice subsidized enters our country, goes directly into the stables and feeds our children to it. We import 3 billion euros in food. The 2012 import growth index for pigs was 75%, Juneine 85%, poultry 52%, milk 100, cheeses 215%. The only eggs we had were self-sufficient until we joined the EU. Now we import a million eggs or 25%. The government of former Prime Minister Milanovic has courageously silenced and caused the collapse of Croatian villages. The import lobby destroyed domestic agricultural production and shut down hundreds of thousands of jobs. A country that dramatically imports food like Croatia and is not a state but a colony. Therefore, all the countries in the environment are strongly protecting domestic food production through various inputs, hidden and hidden subsidies and positive discrimination on their own agricultural production. My question, Mr. Minister, is what you think is urgent, urgently related to the supervision of uncontrolled imports of food of questionable quality in terms of increased control of the declaration at the borders, the date of first freezing, and the age as well as dumped prices of such goods in the trade chains, and whether you have a vision and a strategy for revitalisation of domestic livestock and agricultural production and possible self-sufficiency or the village will completely fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7620	Thank you. The Honorable Minister, Professor, will respond. Romic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7621	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, MPs and MPs, thank you for your question. Actually, I'd start with one finding. Here I was the first minister to answer the question of food in this current hour, and here we end up with food. This somehow gives me the right to say that we have sensitized ourselves with this problem in the Republic of Croatia, that food is an interesting and interesting issue, that we point to problems and that we question what this ministry will do to address these problems. We must conclude first as regards food imports that we are part of the common European market, that in that common European market, when it comes to food imports almost 90% comes from that common market. We are part of the EU where one principle is very important, and this is the principle of free movement of goods. As regards the control of competent inspections by Member States, they shall also carry out official controls and food samples. The food rules aim to protect the health and interests of consumers and provide them with a basis to inform them about the choice of food they consume as well as the prevention of fraud or misleading procedures, food packages and all other procedures that can lead consumers astray. Food placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia, except that it must be sure of human health and must be properly marked in accordance with the rules governing food labelling, and must also comply with any other regulation relating to that food. The Republic of Croatia is part of the Single European Market and EU legislation is already applicable to Member States. Food business entities must ensure traceability of food information throughout the food chain in order to ensure the procedures of the same end-users. But at this point, however, we have one significant problem, and this is a question of the unequal position of all the participants in the food process, from agricultural producers through processors to traders who place that same food on consumers. What we're going to do as a reform government at this point, what unfortunately we haven't done so far, and that's an unfair commercial practice in the food chain. In fact, the Ministry of Economy together with the Ministry of Agriculture prepares the Law on UTP in the food chain of agricultural products, which automatically means that we will regulate this entire system legally. In fact, there were several cases that asked whether it was a code or a law? We've definitely decided on the law because the law will regulate all processes. When you ask a question about the revitalisation of agriculture, the measures we will take are necessary. They can be listed as follows: to launch agricultural land resources and to use what we have at our disposal, to strengthen the competitiveness of the agriculture sector through reducing the cost of financing agricultural production, to seek lower interest, to implement the reduction of parafiscal burdens that are the cost and weight of the entire agricultural product, to budget through direct support measures and state aid as much as possible to strengthen the income position of agricultural producers. I would like to point out here that the special position of the minister, who together with his colleagues in Brussels, is to solve this very crucial and difficult task, which is the position of agriculture on the whole European market. Finally, rural development measures have an impact on the technological recovery and investment leading to the competitiveness of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7622	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7623	... All representatives who have elaborated on this topic today because the situation in agriculture is extremely alarming. [[Specially enabled.]] However, we are looking for stronger controls on imports and declarations, the date of first freezing. On the shelf, it should be very clear that meat was made in the Republic of Croatia, the law in the Republic of Croatia, the country of importing the EU or the Republic of Croatia or Brazil. Furthermore, we are looking for an urgent settlement of the dumped prices in the trade chains that extract profits, an urgent reduction of interest. The interest is in agriculture of all of us within the range of 1% to 2%, with us 7-8%. The reduction in VAT on livestock is 7.5% to 8 in the environment is 25%. Everyone knows no one can produce a pig for 6 kunas or milk for 1 kuna. The final producer must not be the only one damaged by the embargo on Russia. All EU countries publicly or secretly subsidise their production. In Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce publicly propagates domestic goods. The maximum state must positively discriminate against domestic agricultural and livestock production because it is a multiplier in pig production times 4 and in beef road 6, which means that it is made by both slaughterhouses and meat industry and traffic and trade and construction. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, political will matters. Is the country's state interest in production or import? That's what we have to decide. It's just up to us. The country's strategy modelled Russia, Russia raised agricultural production by 11% in a year. It is therefore up to you ministers and the Prime Minister to challenge the self-sufficiency of domestic agricultural production within 7 to 10 years because no one here can convince me that we do not know how to feed pigs and sow wheat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7624	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I would like to inform you that, within the prescribed time limit, the Government has not delivered the answers to 7 parliamentary questions and, in accordance with that business provision, I am asking the Government to submit the answers within 8 days. I would hate for this government to happen to what happened to the last government that has remained in debt to hundreds of questions to MPs. We ended up with the current morning. We'll continue at 3:30 with the first item of the agenda. It's 13,52 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7625	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:30 A.M.]] Let's go with point one. 1. The report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2015 is submitted by the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, based on Article 13. Law on scientific activity and higher education. Due to the size of the material Report is not multiplied but is located on the website of the Croatian Parliament. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Dear Mr Ivo Smrić, president of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7626	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. A report from the National Council on Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is before you. This body was established in 2014 by the merger of the previous National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education. All members do their duty on a regular basis, no permanent staff. Our concrete quality care activity in three key areas marked the following. First of all, in the area of improving the quality of scientists and scientific research, intensive work is highlighted on making a rule on conditions for selecting scientific references whose draft is in the public debate. Its role is to recognise modern world trends in science development and by installing standards of international visibility mirrored by Croatian long-term social and state-run strategic commitment. Secondly, concrete concern for the progress of science and technological development concerned the selection of scientific centres of excellence in line with the priorities of the smart specialisation strategy, particularly in the STEM area. The national council of 100 reported proposals and the minister declared a total of 13 scientific centres of excellence and passivity of 13% of the proposals following rigorous international reviews is a good indicator of quality. Thirdly, in the area of higher education, the National Council has managed its attention to the results of the application of the Bologna Process, which Croatia is monitoring together with other members of the European Union during three-year cycles at ministerial conferences. It concluded that further implementation and needed reforms depend on two key factors. On the one hand, the quality forecasts of the real needs of the Croatian economy are. On the other hand, the forecasts of the European Union by radical restructuring of the labour market are given to the interests of the future. Participation in the long-term new concept and context of what we know today as a basic, medium and high education is one of the biggest challenges for both the National Council and the already emerging future technologies point to a whole new content of what and how to learn. Dear MPs, the specific legal strategic position of the National Council without significant operational powers, focused on the achievement of the programme objectives of our activities mainly on the debates and the adoption of positions and conclusions that we encouraged the activities of the subjects and institutions of the scientific education system. In defining the objectives of our activities, we have come to realize that the long-term unfavourable features of the Croatian economic and social set encourage the processes that Croatia instead of converting, diverges towards the developmental pathway of highly developed European Union countries. It is therefore our starting point that the Croatian scientific community with less than 20,000 active doctors of science, or less than 0.5% of the total population, despite all its shortcomings and disadvantages, represents the only intellectual elite that Croatia today has, and neither is there any better. From here comes its responsibility not only for its own effect but also huge responsibility for the development of a Croatian society whose taxpayers made public funds possible individual scientific progress. The development of awareness of self-responsibility resulting from and the promotion of activities which knowingly accept this responsibility in the academic community is the primary objective of the activities of the National Council. In the situation of national development, one of the major objectives of the National Council's activities in the field of science is to make it a deep thought-out and therefore a real comprehensive strategy, which by 2050 already actively opens new development horizons at individual and social level. On an individual level, profound changes in human and human life concepts, human genome decryption and the genetic code of the plant and animal world have opened the door to a whole new form of treatment for personalized medicine and genetic engineering of such combinations between species that alter the concept of living needs and the concept of meeting them. A much more complex human brain mapping process is under way by tracking, by speeding up discoveries in synthetic biology. This means that a new world will follow us with unknown possibilities for sharing natural life as well as unknown ways of developing artificial life or artificial intelligence. It is the obligation of the national council to provide the Croatian public with continuous communication with the dynamics of these changes. At the social level, the European commitment is to radically new blue, social and economic development. His destination is in the so-called. A green industrial revolution that addresses unemployment as a crucial economic, social problem by new mass employment. It includes, among other things, a new concept of living and business housing, which also exists for producers and consumers of green energy. It involves a new concept of transport and communication, and between them is a giant project called the so-called "Government and Communication". Energy Internet. It's all gonna change, and it's already changing the concept of what we know today as a school, factory or hospital. The National Council is here to encourage its views to capture technologically developmental connections and initiate the need to address cultural and ethical aspects of new reality. Honorable representatives of this House of High. Let me finally look back on a burning problem that we haven't been able to solve. In fact, we did not make the necessary contribution to jumping under the allegations of a mental wall that science and education instead of a key investment of new development is placed in a budget cost that should be minimised by definition. We failed to convince the creators of the budgetary policy that the long-term stagnation and decline of the economic activity of the Croatian economy has also been directly linked to the fact that since 2004. Croatia is the only member of the EU to date that has also relatively and absolutely reduced national divisions for science while others have doubled them more than they have. We did not make a visible boomerang that is only coming in learning outcomes and acquired knowledge when in the previous 8 years you increase the state budget by 8.5%, reduce it by 4.3% and increase the number of students by 18%. In particular, we have failed to convince the simple fact that missing national funds cannot be compensated by EU funds because they are largely working on money money in principle. As a rule, EU funds are neither a permanent nor a long-term character nor a function of maintaining the institutional stability of national science systems. Just the other way around. The stability of national funding is a presumption of any significant participation in European financing. I must stress that we have not been sufficiently involved in explaining the specificities under which the cooperation of science and the economy should be stimulated. In the EU, one with tertiary education comes to the EU for all three middle or lower personnel. In most Croatian export sectors, this ratio is 6 to 1. Technologically lagging and stained Croatian companies are objectively unable to bear the cost of research and development. This is clearly confirmed by data that under 200 companies in Croatia use about 500 million kuna subsidies or tax reliefs for research and development, with about two-thirds of these funds, two-thirds of which are used by two multinational companies operating in Croatia. It is therefore necessary to train science not only to wait for orders from practice but also to create demand for research projects that improve business and competitiveness by gathering entrepreneurs in centres of excellence, centres of competence, science parks, clusters and other forms. Dear MPs, in order to support this new approach, only responsibility and science have been increased. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the Croatian Science Foundation almost two years ago have tax-determined the programme of the 350 million kuna additional budgets according to items that can give the greatest effect in cooperation with the economy and attract EU funds and where nothing would go on pay. Instead of a minimum increase, we have already received the 8-year continuity of the reduction of resources for science, which according to the adopted budgetary policy continues in the following year. This continues with a trend that, unless it is interrupted, leads to destruction not only of research and education capacities. It leads to such a loss of ability to adapt to developmental changes, which, apart from the developmental multiplier and the civilizational gap towards developed EU members, can thus also push Croatia's national identity to the very edge of visibility. Faced with the dimensions of the problem, it is logical to wonder what we have stuck to this little thing of 350 million kuna additional budgets. But when you have a system of 160 thousand students, 32 thousand graduates a year, 11 thousand researchers, 90 colleges, 25 institutes that total barely 3% of budget expenditures, then you get a second bill. This exchange of small means can also be achieved through a relatively large injection, so our quest to turn it into reality because we are deeply convinced that turning trends into funding science and higher education, even at a symbolic level, has an important impact on the public perception of science and education as a potential and real driver of modern and faster development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7627	Thank you. We have one replica of this exhibit, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7628	Mr. Professor, I fully agree with you that investment in education and science cannot be treated as a cost but must be treated as an investment in the future and without it there is no economic recovery and all those business things. However, one thing you unfortunately said incorrectly. The 2004 budget of the Ministry of Science and Education was 7 billion and 800, 31.12.2010 was some 60 million less than 13 billion kuna. So the budget went up five and another billion kuna, actually 4.5 billion kuna. Now if those who run the Ministry of Science and Education set it up, it's another pair of shoes. But, I mean, if it's already mentioned, I didn't mean to replicate on this subject. However, if you have already mentioned here, then you should have said when you talk about financial resources, and that is the constant struggle between the university, high science and the resolution ministry. And it's like having an incomplicated family. Then you can't have a line in the house, that family can't go forward. So our system of science and education is simple or we go legally to order it not to jump into each other's stomachs, because high science and universities simply value and capital. The University of Zagreb was once the pride of Croatia, the question is whether it is today. So let's talk about it, not just about mere financial resources, and this information is right for me. So, by four and a half billion, it increased in 2004 to 31.12.2010. Now the other is the pair of shoes that make the decision about how these money is spent. Second, you need to add about a billion and a half funds to these funds that go to local self-government for primary and secondary education. And you need to add about 3 billion kunas that have a variety of universities and universities, so based on their own incomes and others. So that amount's going up to you, like, 16 billion, and unfortunately for the last four, five years, it's stagnating, or it's changing slightly in a plus or a minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7629	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Honored Gordana Rusak, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7630	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. My apologies to my esteemed colleague Shuker. I must say, before I read this report, it's very sad to talk about such an important report in front of a half-empty chamber. It also states in addition to the fact that the position of science and education in Croatia is indeed on the lowest branches. When one day this assembly is full, when we discuss issues related to education and education, we will be sure that we are on the right track. But until then, I'm sorry. All right, thanks. I get it. I'm sorry. This was a moment of sentimentality. I take back everything I said. .../Intruder Antičević Marinović: Yes, but when you are gone we do not say that you are gone. He's got someone, he's got no one, he's got no one. Yeah, without who you can be. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 5th session... on 8 and 9 March 2016 Report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2015. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Come on, please, let's not communicate with each other. Here you go.]] The opening argument was submitted by Prof. Dr. Ivo Smocic, president of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The applicant pointed out that the report detailed the mission, objectives and way of working of the National Council in 2015. This was held during 2015 by the Council of 9 sessions discussing issues of importance for scientific activity, discussing a number of cases, and giving an indication of them. Opinions of support, recommendations, proposals, interpretations and others. I'm gonna stop here and say what professor pointed out. A friend of mine doesn't have any professional employees in that National Council. In the field of science, two topics dominated the activities of the National Council, the state and financing of scientific and research work, and the scientific centres of excellence. In this connection, the applicant pointed out the problem of funding the science system in the Republic of Croatia, stressing that since the economic crisis occurred in 2008, the Republic of Croatia has reduced the allocations for science and higher education, and that the current state of funding for science is not sustainable in the long term. Moreover, Croatia is the only European transition country that has reduced separations for science during the crisis. All other transition countries have increased the isolation. Discussing that report, the opinion of the board members that the National Council as an expert body providing for the development and quality of the overall scientific activity carried out its law on the task of the body responsible for the strategic thinking of the science and higher education systems in the Republic of Croatia. It is also positive to assess the involvement of the National Council in the launch of the procedure for establishing proposals for scientific centres of excellence, and to engage in the creation of a new Regulation on conditions of choice in scientific titles. Prof. The family has just mentioned that this rulebook, the proposal for a rulebook, is over and is currently under public debate which will last until 6.6. Also because of a large range of quality, I find this very important in Croatian universities a positive assessment of the involvement of the National Council in the creation of a new law on quality assurance in science and higher education. In order to improve the system of science and higher education, and its link to economic structures, it is suggested to the Proposer that the National Council should be more actively encouraged to explore in the STEM area since it is an important factor in the economic development of the country. The topic of the debate was the problem of funding scientific research and the use of EU funds as well as the provision of national initial funds necessary for the reporting of European projects. It has been pointed out from this point of view that each EU member state has taken care of its own development of science and that care is expressed by a significant allocation of national funds for science. EU funds for science are significant, but they cannot be compensated for reduced national allocations. There has been a rather extensive discussion here about whether we can be ours, meaning to leave national science to European funds and it has been concluded that this is not possible because the European Union will finance those projects that are of strategic interest to the EU. One example. Large funds that can be withdrawn to explore climate change have recently been released. Of course Croatia will be involved in these research, that we care and care about it, but I ask if this is the priority of the Croatian economy, so climate change research? So each country must first invest and create a base for scientific research with its own resources so that European funds can then be upgraded to that base. Finally, after this extensive debate on this funding, we came to the conclusion that a report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7631	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to open up the debate. We'd move on to representatives' clubs first. The first is the SDP club, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7632	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that we didn't discuss this report before the budget was adopted because it was actually an opportunity, the report was already in the assembly, the board discussed it. Perhaps this report would also contribute to the debate on the budget being ultimately such that science would be a slightly greater winner than it was. Here, I'd like to start a debate on behalf of the club. At first, I want to say that we support this report and we think it's quality, it's done a good analysis, it's kind of looked back on history, it's pointed to the current state and it's given some solutions to the future. But before the report itself, I will also remind myself once again of the requirement that all of us parliamentary representatives and the Government have received from over 5,000 scientists who have asked us to convert science and education from losers to winners, that science and education in percentage become always the biggest winners of each budget, to continue reforming education through curriculative reform, to ensure the rapid start of changes in the system of science and higher education based on increased competence, internationalisation and accountability to the wider society and that all the measures and activities provided for in the Education, Science and Technology Strategy are immediately implemented. I think these demands that came from scientists can actually be read both in the work of the National Council and in what it proposes. Although there aren't many MPs in the assembly, but since the public is watching what we're doing on purpose, I'm going to read what the National Council of Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is actually doing, which is a key strategic body. We've heard of a professor. The friends he seemed to me with a single dose of memory told me he had no operational authority but that's good. So this body has a strategic function, strategic thinking of education, science and technology while others should do it operationally. The National Science Council therefore discusses issues of importance for scientific activity and proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve it. It proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve higher education. It agrees with the terms of the rectorial choir and the Council of the University, high schools for the acquisition of scientific, artistic and teaching professions, monitors the development and determines scientific and artistic fields and fields, appoints regional scientific and artistic councils and parent committees for each field. The General Act lays down the conditions for obtaining scientific titles in accordance with this law. It brings excellence criteria for selecting scientists and teachers to extend work contracts after 65 years of life. It examines and values the proposals for co-operational scientific programmes proposed by universities and public scientific institutes. It proposes declaring scientific centres of excellence and gives opinions on the establishment of scientific and technological parks and collaborative technology centres. It proposes criteria and brings out budget allocations for scientific activities and higher education and technological development. It proposes and encourages the participation of other entities and civil society organisations, in particular state administration bodies, units of local and regional self-government and economic operators in the system of scientific activities and higher education. It proposes measures and takes activities to improve and advance scientific and teaching subjugation, appoints members of the Council for the financing of scientific activities and higher education. It proposes and encourages measures related to the police system of scientific activities and higher education in the Republic of Croatia and proposes strategic documents of the network of public higher schools and networks of public scientific institutes. It discusses issues of importance for the development of the national innovation system, proposes and encourages measures to improve it and encourage technological development. It proposes members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, proposing members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. It considers and gives its opinion on other issues relevant to the development of a system of science and higher education. So, colleagues and colleagues, if you have listened carefully to what I read, there is no important body that is strategically considering everything that is important for education and science. If we promote the 2015 Report, what should we look at? It is, above all, important that a strategic framework for the development of education, science and technology was established during this period. We adopted the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology here in Parliament on 17 October 2014 without any vote against I will remind you. The HDZ colleagues were abstentions but not due to content, so they did not deny the strategy but resented that too little funds were provided for its implementation, which is an obligation then to increase in the budgets that follow when they are able to increase those funds. A complete curricula reform has been launched that concerns not only primary and secondary schools but also quality potentials that will be enrolled later on in colleges. The integration of education with the labour market has begun through a Croatian qualification framework which has been slightly neglected, which even as far as I heard the Faculty of Economics also launched a constitutional suit, contesting the constitutionality of the Croatian qualification framework I would dare say out of purely particular interests. What I particularly want to emphasise is that it is repeatedly repeated that there is a constant trend in the reduction of investment in science, it is not correct. Therefore, by reforming the financing of scientific activities through multi-annual programming contracts and the Croatian Foundation for Science and the establishment of the first national and scientific centres for excellence and successful withdrawal of funds from European funds. Science separations rose from 0.75% to 0.81%). So, the negative trend that was somewhere until 2010, 2011 stopped and then began to increase. We can read this from the materials prepared by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the session held in March 2016 where here is only one example, let us take the biggest problem of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and thus the system of higher education and science, these are salaries. So the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports 85% of the funds goes to pay. And because of those real supplements that have to be increased due to the addition to the work experience, that amount will keep growing. If he constantly grows all the resources of other dedicated sciences will be reduced. So here's what it means in 2010 a billion and 919 million, 2015, have been allocated to contributions for salaries with contributions. 2 billion and 10 million. At the 2010 scholarships, 65 million, 2015 ... 2010 scholarships 68 million, 2015. 226 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're not, of course, insufficient, that they need to be increased, but it's not a fact that they're stagnating. Therefore, if we talk about what should be better, of course, that, through the faster integration of the university, more funding for the development of education, higher education and science should be provided through better integration of universities with the economy. Therefore, what should be done in the next period? It is necessary to continuously increase investment in education and science as drivers of long-term economic and social development, through comprehensive programming contracts, through greater interaction of science, economy and research. What I think is the role and role of the National Council is that, in cooperation with trade unions, a completely new model of standardising the work of scientists, scientific teaching staff and institutions in the system of science and higher education should be developed. I believe that there is also a need to encourage the development of doctoral schools at the university institution level, and what I particularly advocate as a doctor is that at least one university hospital is being implemented in the coming period. Here I nominate it to be in the river. I will conclude with a consistent implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, which I have already mentioned several times. In this strategy of education, science and technology there are 8 goals for higher education, I will quickly pass through them. This is to improve the study programmes through consistent implementation of the Bologna Reform settings and redefine the competences they acquire. Continue through a quality binary system of higher education in line with national needs and the principle of effective management of higher schools. Ensure quality personnel structure of higher schools as a basis for improving the quality of education. Ensure an effective and developmental incentive system for the financing of higher schools. Ensure satisfactory spatial, informational communication resources of higher schools. Improve student standard with special care for the social dimension of study. Internationalise higher education and strengthen it into a European world-wide higher education space. These 8 ensure the appropriate importance of a culture of quality and the principle of responsibility in higher education. These targets are further developed with 31 sub-targets and 87 measures to achieve them. And we also have six goals for science and technology. It is a quick launch of changes in the system of higher education and science, international competitive public universities and public scientific institutes in Croatia's highly educated research space that creates new scientific, social, cultural and economic value. The environment that enables and encourages the interaction and transfer mechanisms of the research community's cooperation with the innovative economy, social activities, universities, universities and scientific institutes involved in the smart specialisation processes and related guidelines for technological development, national research innovation infrastructures with public access with integration into European infrastructure, linking them with them. And the 6th growth in R & D investment and the improvement of the public funding system and the promotion of investment in the business and social sector in R & D. These objectives are defined by exactly 28 measures so that they can be fully implemented. What I particularly want to praise in the work of the National Council for the past year concerns their role in the establishment and launch of 13 centres of scientific excellence, then in establishing advice on the financing of higher education and science which I hope will offer solutions that will ensure the rapid development of our universities. Of course, it is very important that we finally get a new version of the rule of progress in scientific titles because the current criteria and criteria are too low and I think we should provide a higher scale for advancement in the system of science. And what I specifically call on the National Council to actively engage in the creation of quality laws, to ensure quality in order to level the quality of all our higher universities, universities, so that all diplomas are equally valuable. Here, thank you again to Mr. Professor. I call on my friends to be proactive in creating a prerequisite for education and science to always be winners and when it comes to budgets and to ensure the economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7633	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7634	Mr. Jovanovic mentioned restructuring of the institute. A good idea, and we're going to have to do that anyway, so I suggest that one of these institutes or maybe two that synthesize the devices of these statistical analyses that will finally tell us once and for all exactly how many are the separations from the gross social product for science, education, how many students we have and how many scientists we have, etc. Because the data we're talking about seems to be very, very different so to whom it suits. Once it's good, another time it's worse, but in any case it's not uniform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7635	Thank you. The esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7636	Thank you very much. Well, here's what you encouraged me to say that I didn't mention in the debate when it comes to the institute. So the evaluation of all institutes for foreign higher education and science agencies has been carried out, and there are recommendations. Part of the institute simply cannot survive on its own anymore, part should be connected, part should be included and universities. And I have also asked Minister Šutar's parliamentary question that, as soon as possible, answer us in fact in what way is the rationalisation of the scientific institutes network in the Republic of Croatia going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7637	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7638	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jovanovic, I think that divulging in science is something that shouldn't have political opposition. But what bothers me is that we are constantly talking about the need to increase something and the question arises whether we have the possibility of those who are full of budget to increase it and I am practically neither of Professor Smocic nor of you have heard of it in general when I talk about science. Is there room for certain things to be set up differently and whether 16 billion kunas invested in education and science, so from first grade primary school to science, in a more rational way of using, we might come up with resources that can be used for what is needed. You said yourself that 85% of the money goes to pay. Is such a system of rewarding adequate, does it stimulate general people in education and, above all, young scientists to work, so it's a question to talk about because what we're going to say here and about it we're all going to agree on whether we're in power or opposition, whether we're left or right to invest in science, but I think it's a fundamental question in what and how? Whether some of the funds that have been invested are, let's say, an example of the Rijeka campus, is the government's decision to make that former military space and that space to make room for higher education, quality or good, which is with Borongai or something like that. There are nukes for some things. But if we use those resources more rationally. I told you if only the Ministry of Education grew in 2004-2010 and you and Professor Smocic said the exact same thing that dropped funds for science until then. It's very interesting that 5 billion went to the Ministry of Science, education in 6 years and science got less. So whoever runs it, the Ministry has to take care of how that cookie is shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7639	Thank you. The honourable representative Jovanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7640	Well, I agree with my colleague Shuker. So in the debate on behalf of the club, I mentioned that I welcome that the National Council has set up a Council on the financing of the scientific activities of higher education that should be answered right now and these questions that you have asked and I also encouraged that, together with the trade unions, it also takes a completely different way of assessing and determining the workings and norms of everything that is going on at the university. I won't now because I don't have time to say that and that little money that isn't enough has been spent irrationally and ruined in many ways. That must have been and it would have taken too long to go into the explanation of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7641	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Jovanovic, you said you expected the winners to be scientists and of course that the triba supports you. However, when we look at it and you said it yourself in 2010 to this year, every year, science is being allocated less and more and more, by comparing the duties of the Croatian state, the debts, so we have 300 billion kuna. Only in 4 years, 100 billion kuna. Obviously, science was given too little and organisationally, looking at all the territory of the Republic of Croatia as far as higher education schools are concerned, so that individuals in some parts of Croatia do not have the same conditions for schooling or have the opportunity as they have because of the financial difficulties they have in other regions and richer regions, and I am glad that you represent them here with your Rijeka. Otherwise, all of them coming here to Parliament as most of them want for their ends as much as possible and education can't work that way, and I'm also not clear that out of the desert sales of gold, Ina, the islands, everything we haven't sold today, we have a problem in science that 85% means the resources that go to science go to pay, means that it was generally managed by the state not transparently at the expense of science. We see when we have some kind of problem that we always say we need advice, they need commissions, and that's mostly done when we don't want to solve the problem. So our science is damaged and education is both territorially and individuals who have no right, constitutional right all to the same education. I hope this government uses these, this most of them. The government of these funds as they are and that this science will be much fairer in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7643	Thank you. The esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7644	Which way you're actually wrong. I don't know why you're replicating me, what you wanted words to say. I haven't singled out the river here at all, but I just nominated it that if we want to have one university hospital, we can have it in Rijeka and you're totally wrong when you talk about school availability for the past four years. So it was dramatically increased compared to 2011. So since 2012, the co-financing of inter-urban school transport has begun, a total billion kuna in one term has been spent. In those four years, it is absolutely ensured that all students who regularly meet their obligations are fully free of charge. The number of student scholarships has been significantly increased. Students' capacities and accommodations have been expanded so that if we talk and compare 2011 and 2015 today, Croatia is a much larger and equal society for all those who want to graduate from high school and college. So what you were saying, you were completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7645	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, we will speak to the distinguished representative Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7646	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we heard here today and after the parent committee report by Mr Ružić on the work of the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. This national council, as we can see from this report, is concerned about the development, quality and quality of the overall scientific activities and systems of science in the Republic of Croatia and the number of activities that the National Council has in its scope, and according to these activities, it is indeed a great responsibility for the development and improvement of Croatian science, but also for quality human selection in science. There is a particularly large responsibility given the very small number of highly educated populations in the Republic of Croatia. All those who have ever worked within any system, especially that of education, know that quality people in that system are the cornerstone of progress and implementation of any change and any project. Two key acts are the framework for the action of this National Council. It is the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Council itself, and that is for the time being, I would say a legislative framework. The key question that is being raised by reading this National Labour Council report for 2015 is whether the Council has succeeded in implementing its own plan and programme that it has adopted. What I am pleased about, and what is mentioned in this report, is the promotion of research and support for STEM, especially because it is one of the fundamental areas that wants to improve the new full curricula reform. We are aware that without mutual cooperation of the overall educational vertical from pre-school education to higher education and science there is no improvement, and most of such objectives are set by strategy, already mentioned by the Education Strategy, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in October 2014. We also see the issue of withdrawing funds from EU funds and the issue of the inclusion of our scientific projects in those European ones, and this way we can even appeal to some future members of this National Council to take care of European scientific developments and research and opportunities for further and more productive withdrawal of funds from EU funds. But here it should be said that the development of Croatian sciences and the progress of the Croatian economy, and related to the withdrawal of these funds, is very much linked. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy on the foreign market is a prerequisite for the development of science, but also for enhanced scientific activity and research is an incentive for the economy, innovation and competitiveness. This was appointed by the Council as well as by its two members in the Committee on the Monitoring of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness of Cohesion for the Development of the criteria of application and withdrawal of funds from EU funds, with a view to closer integration of science and the economy, which unfortunately did not lead to the desired results and sufficient consumption of structural funds whose member is on the programme from 2014 to 2020. That's what we hope for in the future. In this report, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is given also a view and recommendations on how to actively raise standards in Croatian science through six regional scientific councils and one artistic council as well as through a series of expert committees formed by the Council alone. Two are strategic issues I would say which opens up the future work of the National Council for Science, which gives as its future goal of high education and technological development, which is the state and funding of scientific research projects and work and scientific centres of excellence. In order to achieve all these projects and all the objectives written for the future work of the National Council, it is necessary to include all the entities of the Croatian society, the Council itself, the Science Foundation, the agencies that are with the Ministry and, of course, the universities themselves that cannot act outside the system. And given its scientific capacities, human resources, and also its financial capacities. Here in this sense I believe in the work, productive work and help of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Croatian Parliament and I am sure that the ministry will recognise the work of the Council and its objectives in the future and for the benefit of Croatian science. On behalf of the club, I can say that we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7647	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7648	A colleague mentioned EU funds for higher education. So here I would ask her how much of... The funds and possible funds from EU funds that have been used so far if you have the information, because I see you've had a lot of education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how much until 2020 we can use as the Republic of Croatia. And it's a very important question what you just said, funds from the EU funds. Thank you very much. If you can get that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7649	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7650	Mr. Bulj, I don't have that particular information because the report doesn't state in that sense. It is said only that Croatia is a member of such committees. I believe, again, because I don't have the exact information that this National Council will be doing very well on the teaming of people who are able to withdraw these funds, but every institution in science individually. That is why I stressed that it is necessary to include all the entities involved in this educational vertical.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7651	Thank you. For individual debates, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7652	Thank you very much. Well, I volunteered for an individual debate because I didn't want to talk about that part when I spoke on behalf of the club because it was about my personal attitude. So we keep saying that the problem is about both wages and science. Some discussions were being held about whether the ministry should be shared by segregating the Sports Ministry. I just see the solution to having a completely different structure when it comes to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, Culture, Economy. So precisely because of the need for a close relationship, education, science and economy, I think that would be a logical sequence. So, in some kind of government reform that you announced in this coalition, we have the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Economy, especially the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports. I think that would be a way to ensure that science withdraws more funds from the economy. And another thing I'm trying to say is European funds. So I am afraid that part of my colleagues and in this assembly do not understand when we say that European funds should be the basis for the development of Croatian science. Why? So we, our budget, are going to be very difficult to increase. To increase in our budget the resources for science will also be difficult to go. This will depend on how much GDP is growing, so if the budget is growing, we will be able to increase slightly more for science. Secondly, will the economy give us a little more resources for science? Pliva might want some other big company, and these other little ones aren't able to do it. We are left with European funds. But not European funds for the withdrawal of individual projects, but European funds for infrastructure. And that's where we go back to the University of Rijeka. The University of Rijeka has withdrawn 180 million kunas of grants for the development of research infrastructure. This research infrastructure ensures that young scientists do not leave the University of Rijeka, but that familiar foreign scientists come to us and that they are doing projects together that will draw money for individual projects from European funds. And it's the only way that in the next period it can ensure that more money enters our science than we currently have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7653	Thank you. We have three replicas in this debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7654	Dear Mr Jovanovic, I trust and I'm sure you understand how important the issue of science is, it's not a question that we should politicise in this assembly. But also that everything that has been quality started within the Ministry and within the education system is actually a long-term goal and that this is a process which, whose results will only be seen after a few years. That is why I deeply believe in the constructiveity of all parliamentary representatives and the ministry headed by the new minister. I really believe that there will be a quality selection of people who will start Croatian science for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7655	Replica response, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7656	Well, fellow Travelers, I don't know where you saw the politicizing. Here I am trying to be absolutely nice, smooth, not attack anyone, offer quality solutions and suggestions. So I didn't mention politics or politicizing anywhere. And here I am looking forward to working with you and my colleague from the River Sustar for the benefit of education and science for all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7657	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7658	Thank you very much. Here's the same question as a colleague. Since you were a minister to your colleague Jovanovic in the past government, how much EU funds for higher education during your period. During last year's government is meant to have pulled the bar in percentages? So that's what you need to know if your colleague didn't know. That's what I'd like to ask you. And you noticed very well that from Rijeka, the current minister, you from Rijeka, means that our high education bar in Rijeka will have no problems. But if you can answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7659	With pleasure for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, our mandate was the most successful ministry to withdraw 120% of the funds available. And what awaits us is funding in billions of kunas that we can withdraw if we succeed from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7660	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7661	Thank you very much. Well, I'd just like to add and highlight another fact that the general public agrees with but obviously not the politicians. Each country must first build its own resources scientific potential, create its competitiveness in order to withdraw funds from the EU. So that's where the question is whether it's a chicken or an egg first. Who will invest, who will give us serious European projects if we are not able to work on these projects? Mr Jovanovic probably knows that the last significant investment in infrastructure at the institutes and universities was in 2005 and that today we have an apparatus at universities and institutes that has been passing for 10 years. What are we going to do with such an apparatus, what projects are we going to apply to? I agree with you that we must work on these infrastructure projects and withdraw money from the EU at least for that and then apply to other funds. And now that no one has answered the question to Mr. Bulj about the withdrawal of funds and Mr. Jovanovic brings up such fine figures I will mention one. We withdrew 26.6% of the possible funds from the European Social Fund and if we had withdrawn only 50% from that fund, we could have financed 3756 gross salaries from the doctor of science in one year. That's a lot of money. At that time, these science doctors were coming out of the country, and we weren't doing anything to get at least 50% off that fund, not 26.6%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7662	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7663	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Professors and I don't get along all the time. So I keep saying that we need to use European funds to build a network. So, what you're saying is that we're missing our scientists using the European funds to build that network. And I repeat again the example of the River where a computer that costs 40 million kunas belongs among the 500 largest computers in the world and where science can be done for every scientist. And that's how we expect to attract scientists. That's exactly what institutes should do. Ruđer Boskovic reported so he received 2m euros recently. So that's what Europe is offering us. Use to build an infrastructure network that will then be the basis for you to report on projects that it provides, for example. The European Research Council. And what should also be said, so the Croatian Foundation for Science as a new model of funding also has a part that refers precisely to beginner researchers so that they become competitive that they can report to these large projects within HORIZON or another project. And I won't forget we in the last government made sure that 1300 young scientists stayed at the university through the change in the coefficients offered to them. Therefore, the base is preserved and the foundations are created, now they need to be further upgraded. I invite you to do it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7664	Thank you. This is where we ended the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7665	We now have a report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2015. The report is submitted by the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2015 is hereby adopted. Please vote, who's in favour? The vote is over. 102 votes in favour, none against nor abstention. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached as suggested by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7666	2. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on factoring, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 18 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the 1st and 2nd readings, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports are in session days. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7667	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia amended Article 117 and paragraph 2 of the Law, which extended the time limit until 31 March 2016, in which legal persons who are subject to factoring and registered in the court register are obliged to comply with that law on the date of entry into force of the law. The extension of the deadline laid down in the Regulation did not result in the licensing of existing factoring companies primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in HANFA other than the largest existing factoring companies. As regards this proposal for a law amending the factoring law, it is therefore proposed to amend Article 117(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law, i.e. to allow the extension of the period within which legal persons who carry out factoring operations on the date of entry into force of the law and are entered in the court register and who are obliged to comply with any amendments to be governed by the founding act in accordance with the provisions of the law by 31 December of this year. Capital that cannot be less than 1 million kuna, the management of a company with the provisions of the Governance Act and conditions for a member of the factoring board, members of the supervisory board of the company with the provisions of the Law on the Supervisory Board, the factoring of a company and the conditions for the exercise of the functions of a member of the Supervisory Board of Factoring Society. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Laws and organisational assumptions referred to in Chapter VI. The law laid down for the functioning of factoring companies in accordance with the provisions of the law. In this part of my opening address, please allow me to say that the Government has just sent to the Assembly and a proposal for an amendment which has reverse, or retroactive action, but in accordance with the Constitution, or Article 90(5), as it is an exceptional case in which the aim is to prevent the fact that, due to the expiry of the period for the licensing of 31.3.2016, the factoring society ceases to perform the factoring tasks and that the factoring activity is deleted from the court register. I think this is the valid reason for the amendment, which, I repeat, gives me the possibility of this retroactive action and also the second amendment is related to the date of publication itself. It is also in the Constitution that it is possible to go not necessarily 8 days from the adoption but immediately the next day to reduce this deadline to the minimum possible measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7668	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one for discussion came from a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this proposal for a law amending the factoring law. We have seen that these changes are essentially very simple and demand a extension of deadlines so that factoring companies and mostly those less could meet the conditions that we have established by adopting the factoring law. We would like to see and hear and it would be much easier for us then, although we assume what it is that the minister has informed us more precisely what difficulties these difficulties are, which is why factoring the house, these companies could not meet these conditions set by the factoring law. Namely, there is no doubt and this law is almost and unanimously seem to have been brought to me in a past meeting where for the first time a quality legal framework for the performance of factoring operations and for the ease of supervision and supervisory over factoring societies has been established. The practice certainly, we have already warned that it will show any shortcomings even though it is already visible, especially now that we have this bill that the implementation of the obligations is difficult within the deadlines set. There is no doubt that factoring is a pro-pulsory activity and only that we may be reminded of an alternative form, as an alternative form of financing, form of short-term claim, includes financing, insurance and management of demand, allowing timely payment of obligations to suppliers and thus achieving better operating conditions such as rebates, discounts and can significantly contribute to the acceleration and reliability of the collection. It also provides faster flow of money and liquidity, improves the credit rating and credit ability of entrepreneurs. Factoring, we could say that it is almost not affected by the recession in some way, or that the crisis is not so disturbing. However, the purchase of outstanding claims has recently been said to be booming, in particular, by factors dealing with financial institutions such as banks and other large financial institutions. This is not surprising, given that the main factoring effect is to improve liquidity because companies can make their business possible within a short period of time, and factoring services are especially suitable for small and medium-sized enterprises, but I point out here, of course, with a better demand in my portfolio that they cannot and do not want to wait for their payment. The company sells claims, of course, rejected, which is refused for factoring service can receive an advance immediately from 70% and even 90% of the funds. And there is no doubt that factoring enables therefore better liquidity in the economy itself. However, what is still missing in Croatia and what factoring companies in the most developed countries like England and like Germany have, so these companies play a very important role in financing the economy that Croatia is only now expecting. So here's by supporting these amendments to the factoring law, Mr. Minister, we'd like you to answer what it is that disrupted these factors, because we have 17 of these smaller factoring houses. Only a few of them requested and were granted permission after they had complied with the existing law. What's so disturbing about them that they couldn't meet the conditions of the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7670	Thank you. The next club is HDZ, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7671	Excuse me, colleague, you probably saw the amendment so you could probably discuss it a little bit more, then yes. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is one seemingly technical amendment of the law. However, I would like to warn here of something that was the established custom of the last government. I sincerely hope it won't be our government's custom. And it may have missed here, but so the government has the authority to, at a time when Parliament does not meet, adopt a regulation with a legal force. However, it is practically an obligation at the first session afterwards to pass the regulation into law. The last government unfortunately did not do so but many regulations were practically in force for the maximum part of the time, so I will remind you of that famous Act on Pre-Arrangement settlement when it was adopted at the last Friday of the session and the next session on Thursday of the Government when the Parliament was no longer sitting, the regulation amended the 45 articles of the Pre-Arrangement Act, practically amended the complete Pre-Arrangement Act and went in a completely different direction, it went in that unwanted direction. And that's why, now that this remark I'm talking about is not about this government, it's about the previous one. Because, look, the government adopted the Regulation amending the factoring law on 30 July. Now, look, what was the need to adopt with 30 July a Regulation amending the factoring law extending some period, while the HANFA had an understanding of the situation with factoring societies and that unfortunately many factoring societies would find it difficult to comply with the amendment of this law until 31.03. At the same time, we are if you remember at 9 months. Last year they had called an emergency session of an extraordinary session before the constitutional deadline, so I think if yesterday was to discuss that regulation was to enter that session but I repeat it is something that should not be a practice in the future, a bad practice that the government had passed. Because if something is urgent, some law should be passed in a time period until the Croatian Parliament is in session then it can be done by a regulation but then it should be mandatory for the government to make the first next session of the Assembly that regulation should be translated into a legislative proposal and not that what is happening to us now happens to us. Another thing says the deadline prescribed in Article 117. The factoring law was extended until 31 March to allow legal persons who, on the date of entry into force of the factoring law, carry out factoring tasks and entered into the court register etc., etc. You can reconcile your acts. So the law was passed 30.7. At that point, the Ministry of Finance and HANFA had a clear picture of the factoring situation, however, as is unfortunately very often the case, the possibility of implementing the law for many of those to whom this law applies is not legally well foreseen and therefore the new government finds itself in a situation that basically only three major factoring societies have submitted a request by HANFI for harmonisation and the rest of the 13 small ones unfortunately failed to do so. And that is why the government has proposed this amendment to the law that they must enforce this obligation with 31 December 2016 and the HDZ Club will support this amendment to the bill. However, my heart does not allow me to mention certain things about how factoring liked the previous government, but with the aim of reducing the amount of government budget deficits in 2013, 2014, 2015, so you saw in the budget proposal for this year that this government had come to collect 800 million kunas for shipbuilding that were to be paid in 2013, 2015. Also in the next two and a half years, it's going to come to a charge of about 750 million more. If the government had paid it as prescribed by law for shipbuilding, it would have been on the expense side of the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Economy and then the deficit would have looked a little different. However, she thus left nearly a billion and a half kuna to the new government to resolve in the next three years. However, this factoring cost, so for these slightly less than 800 million factors in the last year, the government should pay the factoring cost somewhere around 35 million kuna. So much for the transparency of public finances in the Kukuriku coalition period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7672	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative of the goddesses, at least on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7673	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must say that the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats will support this proposal. It will support this proposal first and foremost because it is a legislative proposal that sets one regulation into law this time, and will also support the fact that teams of companies that have failed to comply during this period will also be able to bring them into line. Because how much factoring does it mean to our economies, we all know. We know how much that improves their liquidity. I am more committed to more factoring societies because there is then competition among them and a better possibility for our businessmen to create with a smaller escort of their ransom claims. So anyway, I welcome this proposal and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7674	Thank you. And in an individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow MPs, fellow MPs. Here I would say a few words about this law that is very important and I'll just comment briefly because I don't think we're all economists here, so people don't understand what factoring is. Factoring is and factoring companies are the kind of financial intermediaries that buy out claims from various companies before maturity, because these companies need money for liquidity because they can't wait for, say, a month, two months, three months until they charge the goods but sell their claim to a factoring company, or so on. Factors. Here's how much it means. It's just a terminology. What's this about? This, of course, is important in developed countries as financial intermediaries are, in this way, affecting the improvement of liquidity in the economy itself. But I'll look back here on something else. I remind you that the current factoring law entered into force on 8 August 2014. On 8 August 2014, they had a 12-month deadline to mean after enrolment in the court register to adapt to new circumstances, the new law, and that deadline was 8 August 2015. But what's going on here now? In these until 8 August 2015, no use was made, i.e. nothing happened and a new extension of this deadline was requested. It means not to apply the law that's been passed. However, at a session held on 30 July 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation amending the factoring law. The period prescribed in Article 117. The factoring law was extended until 31 March 2016. So, nine months. The key problem, however, is the fact that the factoring law, which should have said that the factoring function is financing rather than lending and buying out bonds that did not come from supplies of goods and services. Article 12(2) of the basic Regulation provides that only those bonds issued as a means of subsidising the supply of goods and the provision of services abroad and abroad may be purchased by a factoring company. So from this, we conclude what this is all about. So, only those bonds will be escrowed and should be escrowed, which have coverage in the delivery of goods and services, not the bonds that are not covered by the commodity-financed relations. And if something like that were to esoterate the bonds that are not and do not have a slave-financial relationship then it would actually be an incursion into a monetary system that is simply inadmissible. What else do you say about this? Just a few more information. Last year, the company factoring property in Croatia reached nearly 8 billion kuna, and the total volume of transactions reached nearly 20 billion kuna, so it's interesting here, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic said that the factoring is a very good one technique, i.e. financial intermediation, and the question is why is it not applied the law that this government itself passed, or has adopted the regulation. If that's so good why, then it didn't work. Very strange! Instead of applying the law after a year as a deadline for harmonisation, the government has made use of the regulation for 9 months. I ask the question why? The same is expected of this government, and if this law were now to be extended by the end of this year, we would have had a situation that for two and a half years, it means the law to start acting. A key question arises as to what this House is for, why is it necessary for such laws to wait a long time for them to function? We've heard here explanations that there's one number of factoring companies that are small, they're not capitalized enough, etc. So while they adjust, they may perish. For your information in Croatia today 17 factoring companies of which 4 have established banks, 13 is so-called. So let's say independent intermediaries. However, these four factoring societies, the companies that founded banks on them, wastes 70% of the total turnover. Now, what's more interesting to mention? Here's a few indicators. The question really arises why is it so difficult to apply this law because since mid-2014 when the law was passed income from... increased from 128 million to even incredible 295 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] All this difference of 170 million kunas she's become a factoring factor of society from who? Of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises that have been severely ill with liquidity, they are forced to sell their claims with a large discount in order to obtain liquidity. What you also need to know, gentlemen, is that the volume of bonds transactions in that period has increased from 5 billion kuna to as much as 14 billion kuna. The gain of factoring companies has increased since law was passed from 122 million to as much as 214 million kuna, which is a 30 per cent capital contribution, which is simply in one country that is convulsing in economic problems turns out to be a lucrative business. Of course, someone wouldn't understand this discussion of me negatively oriented I'm the same for the opportunity to extend or extend, but I'll say not until the end of the year but 90 days. Since this is an individual discussion because this point is suddenly included, so it should have come later, I will propose to the MOST Representatives Club that the amendment means we ask that it be 90 days for a simple reason because in 2014 it means the law is passed, so it means we don't make it too difficult. What's important here to say? We need to take care of these factoring societies that have little meaning capital, that's where people work, and not lose their jobs. However, does anyone wonder what is wrong with those entrepreneurs who leave their last liquidity as a factoring fee to companies because they can't get loans in the bank? So they have to sell their claims with a big discount to survive. So we have to think about these companies to save jobs there as well. So here I think that the application of this law has no reason to delay until the end of this year, but it's 90 days enough and I think there are arguments here. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7676	Thank you. We have three replicas for your debate. The first is the distinguished representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7677	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Professor. I'd like to ask you a question. Why has it been so difficult for 2.5 years to activate the factoring law? And what does it mean when a country is rapidly growing the volume of business in this part of the financial market? So what happens to other businessmen who deal with it and who get in trouble? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7678	Replication response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7679	Here's my thanks for asking Mr. Music. Why in the last government did it get tough with that? I don't know, I see the SDP doesn't care about the answer to this question, here's Mrs. Anticevic here leading obviously some other discussion because the factoring is not interested. But she said it was a great technique. That's a question you should actually ask people who acted as authorities in the previous period, right? Well, here I am, I was wondering the same thing if you've been following a little better. And this second part of your question, what it means when it's growing is the volume of factoring transactions, and they're making more and more money, it means that it's getting worse in the economy, gentlemen. This means that this economy has been affected by anemia, so it's weakened the blood, there's not enough blood because the financial system is the blood flow of this country. That means our indifference is increasing. And as much as it seems to someone that they're good results, which is good for that factoring society, I have nothing against it, but that means that there's something wrong in that economy. Here, for these other reasons I don't know, you should ask at another address.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7680	Thank you. Second replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7681	Thank you very much. Professor Lovrinović mentioned 4 banks of 17 factoring companies that are 4 banks. Do you have any information as to whether perhaps the Croatian Bank founded one, the Croatian Post Bank, or whether all foreign banks that continue through these factors are expending and extending this legal action are essentially pulling out money i.e. Robbing our small entrepreneurs and middle entrepreneurs? I don't see any other reason, if banks can, if you mention banks can be the founders of factoring, why can't a bank be owned by Croatia if it isn't founded by the Croatian Post Bank. So here you've said well, we've got the drawback of funds mainly from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are hard to survive on this market, the factoring of a society that is rich and you've said 30% more profit to them in the last year than before, and we're squirming in the economy and squirming our entrepreneurs. So please answer this question, mostly this about 4 banks that have established and 70% have factoring societies, 70% are essentially going through them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7682	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7683	Mr. Bull, thank you for this question. Now everyone can learn about google and see a list of these factoring companies, or whose banks these companies are. Croatia has shown clearly, not Croatia, but the elites that led it to not care about the financial sector, it does not care about banks. She doesn't care about the cardiovascular system of every economy, so we see that the current Croatian postal bank still has such ideas to privatise it. So it's not to be privatized, it's to sell to strangers. Therefore, there is no need for anything, the next issue cannot be implemented by any government in any country unless there is a more significant share in the banking system. One is Germany, which is one of the most developed economies has a significant share of the state in banks in Germany, which is little to talk about. However, the second thing you ask is one position of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, even large ones, about what it looks like. Why are they selling companies their claims? Companies sell claims because they need money for wages, taxes, they're exhausted, and they can't get credit at the bank, let's just say they're incompetent. These banks founded their factoring companies and then they sold at discount 5, 10, 15, depending on 20%. So I can get it. So they're being further exhausted. So someone doesn't get me wrong. We also need the factoring of society, but first of all we need to solve the indifference of the economy that it is doing more normal business and then there will be, no one will even notice the factoring activity of the companies if I understand your question correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7684	Thank you. The last replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7685	My colleague Lovrinović, you have done a good analysis of the increase of nominally issued measurements, but I have tried and now I would like to do with you a little bit of controversy and that is what the state's message sends if it has an obligation and then that obligation is sold and the cost of this sale does not go to the expense of it but goes to the expense of the state. Does the state send a message to fight to prevent indifference, to introduce financial discipline, or to send a domestic message to the financial sector with these few factoring jobs? So this is about the fact that the state has made some kind of commitment and that it has been done in one year then one might understand that, although there are things that are actually very difficult to understand. However, the government of the former did so for the next 3.4 years, so not only the commitment for 2014 and 2015 to be charged to the budget this year but the commitments for 2016 and 2017 were made. So what kind of message do we send as a state? We can talk as much as we want, like this, in a sector like this, but if 0.1 or 0.15% of the deficit is more or less a reason for us to send one negative message, I think it's too expensive a price, it's too expensive a price. Because it's better to display a deficit of 3,85 than 3,70 and deal with these things because definitely when we discussed the implementation of the 2014 and 2015 budget, then we were convinced that there were no factoring obligations. But you and I, too, thought when we talked about the budget, we talked about commitments to factoring societies and the cost of that factoring. So the state took over that discount on itself and doesn't pay it for the shipyard. What kind of message do we send as a state if we act that way?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7686	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7687	So I think it's clear to everyone, really, when the budget was being discussed before Easter, then I was surprised by the amount to be paid, the factoring fee to the companies for those liabilities that didn't mean could be made. So it turns out that this country is inconclusive, right? That they're unsettled financial flows and relationships. And not only that, but to increase the cost of functioning not only of the state but it ultimately goes to the burden of taxpayers. In this respect, it is necessary to do so means, to implement the necessary measures in order to avoid unnecessary costs and not to just increase the expenditure on the state budget for the period to come. And the techniques of showing from one year to the next there, I simply don't have the right insight into the state of affairs, which is why I asked when discussing the budget to be applied, was the next rebalancing or the next budget to apply the ESA methodology and that we see exactly what is behind what figures because indeed in this country it was too much to say by paying an account through the back of the citizens of this country which no one asked or explained why he had made additional costs. In that sense, we here need to be rational, the citizens have chosen us to defend their interests, to prevent such costs. So he also exceeded this proposal to get rid of the Factoring Society Act in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7688	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing this debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the 3rd item of the agenda – Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by law. Thank you very much, very much, very much. Session interrupted at 17.02 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-13-0.u7689	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on factoring, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 18. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. During the debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment that became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. As the amendment submitted by the Government has a feedback on the same, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Legislatives have been shown. The basis of Rule 193 of the Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for the return of certain provisions. In accordance with the reports of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is estimated that there are particular reasons for the reverse action of Article 1 and the final proposal to amend the factoring law. Please engage, shall we vote? Who's in favour of that conclusion? I'm asking for a result. 96 for, 3 abstentions, none against. I find that most of the votes we have reached the proposed conclusion. I am now voting on the final draft law amending the factoring law, so please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 94 for seven abstentions. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law amending the factoring law. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! I suggest we start with work and how we're doing with the program. Follow us point Report on the work of the Programme Council. Here I see the esteemed, Let me give you my word first, right? [[Intruder Petrina: The Honorable President would like to request...]] I see you're picking up, I don't know why, so the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
