ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7354	Dear President of the Parliament, I thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSU and the independent list of Stipe Petrina. I want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the discriminatory relationship of the President of the Croatian Parliament towards me and the violation of the Rules of Procedure as well as in the conduct of the censorship of speech in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7355	Okay. Do we have anyone else who wants to talk about the same subject or any other topic? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Then I'll meet you in here at 9.50 hours. Here you go. It's 09.40 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] And the word was requested by the honourable representative of Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7357	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, and I would like to welcome my colleagues and colleagues and others present in the Parliament. Dear gentlemen of Parliament, yesterday we witnessed an unloved incident. I am not against the order being held in the assembly but I am against discrimination against any parliamentary representative and that this is not what I will always stand for. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament yesterday you first introduced, as far as I know, the censorship of the speech in the Croatian Parliament. There is no doubt that according to the Rules of Procedure, maintaining order at the session of the Parliament is your duty and I believe that everyone is aware of it, especially me. However, you took away the right to freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament yesterday from me the opposite of the business decision. No doubt you told me to go out, I went out, but you erased me from both the club debates as a member of the HSU club, the Independent List and the individual debate. Looking at this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, I do not see anywhere that the President of the Parliament, regardless of what kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure was or has been taken, I do not see any way to deny freedom of speech, or to introduce a censorship of speech. On the basis of this Rules of Procedure, I have written an objection to the work of the President of the Croatian Parliament on the censorship of speech and I ask you to act on the basis of this objection. It is not good for the Secretary of Parliament to say that this objection will be put on the agenda and must be put on the agenda within 24 hours when it is decided by a committee in charge of the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Law. It was just like yesterday was a practice in the Croatian Parliament when you said publicly that you would violate the Rules of Procedure because if the Government hadn't signed what it was supposed to sign and I would ask you to put this complaint in accordance with the business procedure on the agenda as prescribed. Believe it or not, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I wanted to ask for a break yesterday and talk about the same topic because colleagues on one side and the other are seen to have a special relationship with me. I'm glad but it's pointless because the events ahead of us can lead to you sitting in benches in the next assembly and I'm sitting in your seat. You really wouldn't feel comfortable being discriminated against like you discriminated against me. Just laugh. So it is clear that you are using here in the Croatian Assembly two types of criteria and I am warning you. Perhaps your animosity to me springs from that very reason. But remember, though, that no one in this House has yet disputed a single word I have spoken about this speaker. I would ask you to act in accordance with Article 239. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. to place my objection on the agenda within 24 hours. I believe Mr. President that you will stick to, in fact I have always believed in your objectivity and your expertise, I believe you will stick to the Rules of Procedure this time as you have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7358	Thank you very much, dear colleague Petrina. Well, of course this deserves an answer, so you'll get one. So first of all, it's always attractive, especially for the media to throw words like censorship, etc., although of course they have nothing to do with what happened yesterday or what you did in this House. Also, do not imagine that I have any special relationship with you or any animosity because I do not have any representation, nor will I have one. And now about the measure of things. Your complete ignorance of the Rules of Procedure even though I advised you to read it so that perhaps you would stick to it you have shown it even now that you have called on Article 239 which has absolutely nothing to do with what you have said. What you have been saying and why you have received a warning, and then a reminder with a word taken away is related to Article 238, and a reminder to take away words in accordance with Article 240. After that, since you received a warning not because of what you were saying, regardless of what I think you incorrectly spoke to your MOST colleague, but because you went to pollemisate with me, so you received a warning and I want very clearly to say it, no censorship was it but because according to the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary representative cannot enter the controversy with the chairman, not the president, but the chairman. That's one thing. The second thing, Article 241 states clearly that the MP will receive a strict measure of the session's distance from the Parliament if and that it can be said during the debate and decision-making period on one or more agenda points or even for the whole day if that is the chairman's mind. I've issued you a distance from the session for that point. After I first gave you a warning and after that a reminder with a take away word. You're making and now I'm literally going to tell the circus of this Parliament you went out and went back inside, so you said here I am back, I can do it again, and then you went out again, and then you went in, and so on. I could've used the measures of coercion, I can't think of doing it. Because I don't want to make a circus out of this House, I respect and respect every parliamentary representative no matter what or how we differ in their political opinions. But be aware that what you did, I could have called the Assembly's guard and had you removed because you knowingly violated what the Rules of Procedure determined. So, you were going in there, coming back triumphantly saying how you were back and so on. It may impote someone who is simpler but I fear it expresses one contempt for others, not only for me but for all the other members of the Parliament. And now about your objection. And your objection is completely inadequate but I intend to put it and it is already scheduled for the agenda. And now I'm going to explain to you why he's inadequate. It is inadequate because Article 242 states that you can object against a strict measure of distance from the session, and you have objected to my warning. Therefore, completely pointless and completely past the Rules of Procedure but I will put it on the agenda anyway, when we will include new points of the agenda, just to clarify all the facts. Here. Thank you very much. The word was asked by the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7360	Thank you very much. Mr. President. At this point, most of the constituency clubs in the Croatian Parliament have handed you a decision on only disbanding the parliament signed by most MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I ask you to interrupt the session at this time and continue it when the consultations are complete with the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7361	Thank you very much. Look, I've got such a request I haven't got yet and two of these same points have already been included in the agenda. They exist in the agenda, such as two, or we will classify them because they are already in the agenda proposal. Therefore, it is entirely unnecessary why we should interrupt the session now. We'll finish the session. We will discuss this, end this point of course, the next point I hope to also discuss including in the agenda other points and voting and then, of course, things will happen during their time. I don't see any special situation in that right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7362	We can't pretend that nothing in the state is happening. Well, at this point, we have a request for the Parliament to just disband. Therefore, the other side cannot form the majority and cannot present the Presidents of the Republic that it can determine who will be the prime minister and you cannot say that everything is normal because nothing is more normal in this country than to go to early elections and do so as soon as possible. And then I ask you to grant us a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7363	Of course, a 10-minute break, of course, I approve. Here you are, dear representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7364	Thank you, President of the Parliament. On the same subject on behalf of the HNS Club, we're looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7365	You got it. Of course it's okay. I'll see you in ten, we can do 15 minutes. I'll see you at 10.55. It's a deal. Ten o'clock, 40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.50 HOURS]] We have a certain change. On behalf of the SDP, the honourable representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7367	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As my colleague Dear Zgrebec said, we can't pretend nothing's happening. At this point, the majority of MPs in the Croatian Parliament have submitted a request for the Croatian Parliament's disbandation. Given the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear to all what it means. This means that the work of the 8th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament has come to an end. Dear Mr. President, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are asking us to stop what is happening and to go to the elections. Accordingly, we have submitted a request for the Croatian Parliament to be disbanded. We suggest that this session be suspended, that at 13.30 p.m. upon completion of the consultations with the President of the Republic of Croatia, you decide to continue the session and, at that moment, to complete the agenda of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament with one single item, and this is a proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament and that what we have started and which, unfortunately, has become an ugly experiment to bring to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7368	Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of the HNS club, a respected representative, Milorad Batinic. Excuse me, it's a change. Ivan Vrdoljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7369	Thank you, Mr. President. You heard a colleague named Pejo Grbin. So over 80 signatures have been handed over to disband the Parliament. The consultations are under way with the President of the Republic. It is our view that we should respect the signed terms, we should also respect the institution of the president of the state to finish our consultations, so that all clubs and all party representatives can return to the Parliament after the consultations have been carried out. At the end of the line with the signatures we also respected 70% of Croatian citizens who asked for extraordinary parliamentary elections and we propose to the president not before 13:30 and today we certainly put the decision on the agenda on the disbanding of the Parliament. There's no reason for everything that's been going on these last few days to go on. We all know what the situation would still be just so in some way further compromise of political elites in the Republic of Croatia which we really don't need. So I ask you nicely for a constructive agreement that after the consultations that have been carried out, the signatures that have been submitted are respected and that at 13.30 we declare the resolution of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u7370	Thank you very much. So, of course, I accept your suggestion to temporarily break up with this session. And we're going to continue with the session, but we're not going to set time 13.00, 13.30, maybe it won't be today at all, but Monday. We'll talk about it when we call her back after the president's consultations when the president's consultations are over. We don't know exactly when the consultation with the president will end. Therefore, I hereby suspend this session of the Parliament. Thank you very much. Of course, you'll all be informed in time to gather together. Session interrupted at 10.55 hours. Thank you very much, and now we would finally start with the work as planned and for today we are scheduled for the first point, and that is - The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 63 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 206 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. On occasion, in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, the Honorable Minister of Social Policy and Youth Bernardica Juretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u11999	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Law on Gender Equality entered into force on 15 July 2008 and lays down the grounds for the protection and promotion of gender equality as the fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and regulates the way against discrimination based on gender and the creation of equal opportunities for women and men. Amendments and additions to the Law on Gender Equality are proposed for further harmonisation of the provision relating to the protection of objectification with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 5 July 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment towards men and women in matters of employment and work. The proposal for a law on gender equality is, following the proposed draft, in line with the requirements of the European Commission in relation to that Directive. At the end of 2013, an EU pilot was launched in relation to the Directive in question and the European Commission argued that there are certain concerns about the protection against fiction that need to be addressed. The opinion of the European Commission is that in the Croatian legislation there are two different standards of protection of objectimisation, starting with the same issue being covered in different scope by Article 2. Gender equality laws and Article 7 The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, resulting in certain contradictions between these legal norms. By way of derogation from Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The law on gender equality, which reads, does not allow anyone to suffer adverse consequences because, as a witness or victim of gender discrimination, he gave a statement to the competent authorities or warned the public about a case of discrimination, the Commission assesses too limitedly from the aspect of legal protection of victims, so that the amendments in question allow for the wide protection of all persons who have reported discrimination, the presence of discrimination or the refusal of a warrant for discriminatory treatment, or who have, in any way, testified in the proceedings against discrimination or otherwise participated in any gender-led proceedings. The proposed normative solution will also contribute to protecting against putting in a more unfavourable position all those who in good faith warned the public of a case of discrimination. Following the above proposed draft law, Article 2. The law on gender equality is in line with the provision of Article 7. The law on the prevention of discrimination to ensure comprehensive protection against victimisation, i.e. further extends the circle of persons entering the protection of guarantees, the prohibition of discrimination, and in order to strengthen the legal protection of victims, which was also the aim of the European Commission's recommendation. The proposed draft law also provides for the addition of a new Article 1a. to state in the legal text all EU acts harmonising the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. In the light of the above, it is proposed to amend Article 6(1) for nomotechnical reasons. The law on gender equality correcting the perceived error arises because of the unnecessary repetition of the text of the same content. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Bearing in mind that the draft law has been drawn up with the aim of harmonising laws with EU legal acts, for which reasons it is intended to refer to an urgent legislative procedure, as the president also noted. Any changes affecting other areas of the law are not considered or covered by these legislative changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12000	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Obviously not. Then I'm opening a debate. And the first to come to the debate was the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12001	Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not discuss this legislative amendment today. We find it completely pointless, out of our minds to pretend here in the Croatian Parliament that everything is normal in this country, that everything is going well. Last afternoon, a mistrust was voted on by the Croatian government. Currently, the president is having consultations with political parties and we absolutely do not see any purpose in this House to ensure that everything is fine in this Croatia. Therefore, the SDP club refuses to discuss both this bill and any other proposals that will come on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12002	Thank you very much. Of course, the SDP club has the right to do that, all right. I'm sorry it's like that, because I think the Parliament should work no matter what happens to the government. At this point, the government is a technical government no matter what happens to the government. We have been chosen by citizens and citizens have given us the mandate to pass laws and to pass other acts. We're not dependent on the government. The government is addicted to us. We chose the government and it seems to me that we, at least that my belief should continue to work normally with that material we have. But, of course, every club, every single person can decide what they want. Next, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Margareta Majeric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12003	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, MPs and MPs. The proposed draft law on gender equality, as we heard from the minister, is in line with the EU Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment towards men and women in matters of employment and work. That Directive states in Article 24 that Member States shall include in their national legal systems the necessary measures to protect employees and their representatives provided for in national laws or practices of dismissal and other harmful practices of employers in response to an internal complaint or judicial procedure initiated in order to impose compliance with the principle of equal treatment. At the end of 2013, the EU pilot was also launched in relation to the directive in question, and the European Commission found that there are certain discrepancies that need to be addressed in terms of protection against victimisation. It is the opinion of the EU Commission that there are two different standards in Croatian legislation – protection from victimisation. In the light of the fact that the same issue is covered by Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 2 of this Regulation. Gender equality laws and Article 7 The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, resulting in certain contradictions between these legal norms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination states that no one should be brought into a more unfavourable position because he reported discrimination in good faith, attended discrimination, refused a warrant for discriminatory treatment or in any way participated in a procedure conducted for discrimination under the provisions of this law. Therefore, that Article of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination of Witness Protection or Victims has been laid down very broadly. In addition, Article 2. The Law on Gender Equality says that no one must suffer the adverse consequences of giving a statement to the competent authority or warning the public of a case of discrimination as a witness or victim of discrimination based on sex. In this regard, this article narrows the protection of witnesses or victims, gender-based discrimination that gave evidence to the competent authorities or warned the public about a case of discrimination, i.e. provides for a lower level of protection compared to the Anti-discrimination Act. Following all the proposed draft law, Article 2. The Law on Gender Equality is in line with Article 7 on the prevention of discrimination in order to ensure comprehensive protection against victimisation, i.e. to further extend the circle of persons entering the protection of non-discrimination guarantees and to strengthen the legal protection of victims, as was the aim of the European Commission recommendation. Therefore, the amendments in question allow for the wider protection of all those persons who have reported discrimination, who have attended discrimination or refused a discriminatory action order or who have, in any way, testified in the anti-discrimination proceedings or otherwise participated in any gender-based discrimination procedure. The proposed normative solutions will also contribute to protecting against putting in a more unfavourable position all those who have warned the public in good faith of a case of discrimination. In view of all those mentioned on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to point out that we support the adoption of this law on amendments to the Law on Gender Equality in order to fully comply in the Republic of Croatia with the standards of protection against the victimisation of both sexes and fully comply with the Law on Gender Equality with the provision of Article 24. Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 implementing the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment towards men and women in matters of employment and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12004	Thank you very much. We have on your presentation one replica, distinguished representatives of Nada Murganić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12005	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. This subject, regardless of the opinion of some, certainly deserves to be discussed on the subject, although the law itself is not something in this section too much, but it processes the victim’s area and protects the victim. The Republic of Croatia has passed several laws and regulations promoting gender equality, which prohibits any form of discrimination. We also have regulations that punish violence, which took place in 2010 and the Protocol on Family Violence. But somehow, and now we are in line with the EU's highest standards, but somehow whenever drastic cases of violence end in the worst possible way by taking a life, we begin to see that we have very many different gaps. We can pass laws, however, is always a problem that the law may be inconsistencies or imperfect is the biggest problem in falling to implementation and application in practice. In fact, when we talk about the victim, they generally have a problem proving that the victims are also the biggest problem in our system of police and judicial justice, they have to go through everything they've been through and prove that they're victims and they need protection. That's why every law enforcement program, every harmonisation that goes in the direction of the victim's protection, is welcome to us. But what we miss are the education of those who work in application and law enforcement. These are also the psychosocial treatments of those who were victims and were violent.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12006	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica of the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12007	Thank you. Madam MPs, I fully agree with your statement and support for such amendments and additions to the law, and we are certainly in line with the EU's highest standards, so also with the Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment towards men and women in the field of employment and work, as well as in the field of the application of any kind of discrimination. Surely those who, therefore not those who are victims but who are witnesses of any kind of discrimination, will be here in a better position because, possibly, if the witnesses of some type of violence or discrimination on some other basis, they will not, on the basis of their application, be protected by law so as not to have any consequences in their workplace, therefore, based on employment and labour. But what you've pointed out well is the problem of practice. Practice is actually completely different. We have good laws, and the Law on Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, but we have to implement these laws in a very, very, very good way, and in practice we have to implement them much, much better. And it certainly is education that can help because if someone is a witness to violence and is silent, it is the worst possible solution because it can also be concluded that this inaction is involved in violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12008	Thank you very much. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina, and will be addressed by the distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12009	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. I agree in the good part with Mrs Sobol, but I see no reason why the club should not in any way be manifested because these are two articles of the law that are to be applied according to EU standards and laws. And they will eventually, voted now in this assembly or not have to adopt. Therefore, the Law on Gender Equality is in line with, of course, the Law on Discrimination which seeks to protect women from discrimination. But I can't see with this law either, nor with these amendments, because nothing still changes Article 12, which prescribes that the representation of one sex in the bodies of political and public decision should not be lower than 40%. So I ask the question shouldn't it be real and equal protection from discrimination through the prescribed 50% representation of women? That is why the Law on Discrimination provides that non-direct discrimination exists when a neutral legal norm, hence the criteria or practices put one person in a more unfavourable position than the person of the opposite sex unless, for example, the legal norm, criterion or practice is objectively justified by the legitimate objective and the means aimed at achieving that objective are appropriate and necessary. That's exactly what it looks like. In practice, it violates this legal provision, representing a minimum, or a maximum of 40% of women's representation in each election process. Many political parties do not respect that either, and each election cycle only reduces the percentage of women instead of increasing as they also require a directive and a recommendation from the EU. The story that there are no women in political parties simply becomes a floscula, another political party who wants to participate in some electoral process and no women is a political party not founded on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia under Article 3. And her actions are questionable intentions. Fourthly, the argument that it is necessary to put professional and competent people independent of sex actually requires an argument asking who determines competence and expertise when a list is drawn up? We see competences and expertise back 25 years that have moved us from our Slavonia and Baranja. Professional and smart women go to other countries to create a family and work. They don't get a chance here because they're being discriminated against. The same picture is almost no longer available in cities and municipalities because of this gender equality in the rural area. Our villages are empty, men are the ones who went with their belly after bread, and the rest are women. Women today are farm workers, midwives, mothers, housewives and nurses. It's all one village woman today. How we will protect it, how we will promote this gender equality, who will say that the problem of rural areas is gender policy because the problems that a rural woman faces are not only a matter of employment but also problems with poor public transport infrastructure, lack of kindergartens and schools. Next, I believe that a new national policy to promote gender equality which should be written because it seems to me that until 2015, it should be implemented before the end of 2016, writing, should be particularly focused on protecting this particular group that I was talking about in the rural community because Croatia is losing its population in the size of a small village in Slavonia. And at an enormous rate, she'd say old. If there is a vote by the Croatian party, the Croatian party's club of pensioners and the independent list of Stipe Petrina sees no reason not to accept the amendment of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12010	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Ladislav Ilcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12011	Dear Mrs. Ilic, just two questions. Given that you suggested that there should be 50% representation, so you should be exactly the same number of men and women because in that case as soon as one is not so one is more. So I'm wondering how they'd comply with the current law when 151 is a representative, and that's an odd number, so I'm curious how to prevent sex-based discrimination? Because according to the current law, at least one representative must be more than one sex. And the second question is, you said the story is that there are no women in the parties, there are not enough women, it's flossula. All I want to know is why did you say that? Do you have any information on sexual representation in all parties in Croatia? Let's see if it's floscule or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12012	Thank you. They will respond to the replica of the distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12013	Well, the esteemed representative Ilcic, technically, is probably when he is 151, or an odd number can then veer at least 99% and that's technically possible, so that's not a problem. And as for women's representation, I also speak in this House, or Parliament, which is visible, throw your eye only and you will see how many women are on which side there is and how many women are represented. So what I was saying must be based on indicators. I didn't want to talk about the percentages here because I believe we'll have a chance to get into some deeper analysis when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12014	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished representatives of Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12015	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Ilic, I appreciate your debate although this law, the amendment of the law is mostly more or less committed to the victim and protecting those who are in some way either participants or witnesses of abuse. It's extremely important because you know how much in our society there is no such civil courage to deliberately turn our heads and eyes sometimes and pretend that something that ends a great evil doesn't happen. However, I also fully agree with you that this is an opportunity to speak about the political status of a woman and I think that as much as we like to boast and think of ourselves as a society that has achieved a lot in the field of equality here, just when it comes to women in women's politics, women are not equal and they really have a bad status. We'll either be soon or we'll be gone for a while if nothing comes next, the first thing we'll have is a local election, so we'll see what the status and position of women on the political party lists is, so I think our colleagues could discuss it with us and prove on the lists when we choose to be one truly equal society. Prejudice is the source of all later discrimination, prejudice is a source of and violent behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12016	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica of the distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12017	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'm glad you agree with me, namely, I wouldn't be happy because you're primarily women and I believe that we should be in a common position and common opinion that women are under-represented in political bodies. And you've said well and reminded us that we have local elections and parliamentary elections and that we should have women unfortunately present in this society in our country, who, I say, should have decided that women should be exactly 50% represented. Not even 40, but 50. I hope that in the future it will be no matter what prejudices we all must work together to eliminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12018	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the distinguished MPs of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12019	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ilic, first we will have early elections, and then it will be early parliamentary elections, and then it will already be an opportunity for a much larger number of women than it is now on the lists high enough to be elected to the Croatian Parliament. And regarding political participation, I would like all those who are not clear to look at Article 12, which speaks about the gradual implementation of specific measures and we have had three election cycles so far so that we can all adapt the share of women in, among other things, political participation must reach their share in the population. Therefore, in this Croatian Parliament, it would be so and respected that 76 women and 75 men should sit and that would be exactly how we are represented in the population of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise related to the general debate on the implementation of this law and some regrettable individuals or individuals of parliamentary representatives and MPs and related and, among other things, political participation and every other position of women, I will only remind you of what the debate looked like when she was the institution that is concerned and concerned about the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality, the Advocate for Gender Equality barely avoided her acceptance of the report for the past year. So those who would cry today about the problem of political participation and the position of women in Croatian society at all were the first ones who were willing to tear down an independent body or advocate for gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12020	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica of the distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12021	Dear Representative Sobol. I don't know if that's the answer to the line or whether it's a replication. Anyway, you saw what I was trying to do in a very short discussion mentioned. But I apologize for the order. But I really don't know what election will be first and which second. All right. I hope you're right. What I keep mentioning and recently what I said in the debate, that I am extremely sorry that women don't vote for themselves. So that's the problem with us women. So if we're fighting for equality let's show it in practice. Listen, you don't know who we voted for. You don't know that, you can only assume. There's just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12022	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12023	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative. I agree with you that we need to discuss this law. He's important and important. In Croatia, it is not a state of emergency. The Croatian Parliament is the highest body. MPs and MPs have been elected by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it is our duty, obligation and responsibility to be in their place of work, to discuss and pass laws. On this basis, I also agree with what you said that we should at least achieve that goal provided for by the Law on Gender Equality, which is 40% under gender. They are unfortunately still women, although now and often times when the assembly is half-empty or half-full, we can always discuss it with most women, which proves that women are both more conscious and responsible and more valuable in the affairs they do, and therefore I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be more than 50%, and more than 50%, but the fact is that the two biggest parties and my and SDP have failed in this part and the elections will certainly come, the local, parliamentary, all of which are ahead and the question is whether it will be a similar situation and given the experience of earlier times, we will find it difficult to get to that 40%. I also fully agree with you that amendments should also be discussed, among other things, in the part of this law on gender equality, but any other changes which would affect other areas of the law are not discussed or covered by these legal amendments, because it provides for a alignment with the European Commission's demands and what is actually on us all who are here to discuss the future and for the participation of 40% of the sub-represented sex on the lists for election cycles that are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12024	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Marija Ilic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12025	Thank you. Dear MPs, I took part in the debate today because of course I hold that this House has legitimacy and that was not disputed and I could not conclude it from the debate of Agent Sobol. Therefore, I took part because I am solely fighting for a long number of years for women and women's rights, especially when they need to be corporalized into the political sphere because I hold that everything as a fact in all laws and all the laws are passed in this highest Croatian House. Thus, I was given the opportunity to represent them independently on some insinuations and objections to this legitimacy of this House. Under gender representation, I mentioned as well as you said that women should help women and we appeal to help as you said to our colleagues in the Assembly and not only in the Assembly but in the social political life and the fact that we do not have much help is that here in today's debates we have only one registered colleague on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12026	Thank you very much. The word was asked by the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12027	Thank you very much. Mr. President. At this point, most of the constituency clubs in the Croatian Parliament have handed you a decision on only disbanding the parliament signed by most MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I ask you to interrupt the session at this time and continue it when the consultations are complete with the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12028	Thank you very much. Look, I've got such a request I haven't got yet and two of these same points have already been included in the agenda. They exist in the agenda, such as two, or we will classify them because they are already in the agenda proposal. Therefore, it is entirely unnecessary why we should interrupt the session now. We'll finish the session. We will discuss this, end this point of course, the next point I hope to also discuss including in the agenda other points and voting and then, of course, things will happen during their time. I don't see any special situation in that right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-17-0.u12029	We can't pretend that nothing in the state is happening. Well, at this point, we have a request for the Parliament to just disband. Therefore, the other side cannot form the majority and cannot present the Presidents of the Republic that it can determine who will be the prime minister and you cannot say that everything is normal because nothing is more normal in this country than to go to early elections and do so as soon as possible. And then I ask you to grant us a break of 10 minutes.
